Publication date: January 2012
Volume: 44
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Jimmy Murphy
- Editors-in-Chief: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman
- Managing Editors: Juliana Hanle, Aliyya Swaby
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Jessica Cole, Helen Knight, Sara Mich
- Production Manager: Andrew Calder
- Business Director: Whitney Schumacher
- Research Director: Nicholas Geiser
- Associate Editor: Emily Rappaport
- Chief Copy Editor: Heeseung Kim
- Copy Editors: Ava Kofman, Justine Yan
- Staff Writers: Laura Blake, Rachel Lipstein
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan  M. Clark, Constance Clement,  Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Points of Departure
Snapshot - Vlad Chituc
Critical Angle - Ben Kline
Profile - Ben Mueller
Snapshot - Nicholas Geiser
Endnote - Aaron Gertler
Registered Offense - Aliyya Swaby
Theory of Mind - Cindy Ok
Imagining Atwater Street - Nora Caplan-Bricker


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 1-46**

Six
Registered Sex 
Offenders Live
On Yale’s
Block;
Is the system fair to 
them, or safe for us?
A Utopia In Fair Haven
Freud on Whitney Avenue
How to Kill A Murderer


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 4**

**Title: Snapshot: Gone Fishing**
**Author: Vlad Chituc**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: Critical Angle: The Execution Game**
**Author: Ben Kline**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: Profile: Playing Hardball**
**Author: Ben Mueller**
**Page number(s): 24**


**Title: Snapshot: Joyride**
**Author: Nicholas Geiser**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: Endnote**
**Author: Aaron Gertler**
**Page number(s): 37**


**Title: Registered Offense**
**Author: Aliyya Swaby**
**Page number(s): 42**


**Title: Theory of Mind**
**Author: Cindy Ok**
**Page number(s): 45**


**Title: Imagining Atwater Street**
**Author: Nora Caplan-Bricker**
**Page number(s): 47**



**Points of Departure**
**Author: Katharine Konietzko**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
The New Journal
Heads Up
               POINTS OF DEPARTURE
Katharine Konietzko
Professor of psychology at Yale, 
designed the program in the early 
1960s. In 1963, a New Haven preschool 
opened as a laboratory for the program. 
Head Start later went national as part 
of Lyndon Johnson’s War on Poverty, 
under the aegis of the Department 
of Health and Human Services. Head 
Start’s holistic approach sets it apart 
from other early education programs: 
in addition to providing preschooling 
to three- and four-year-olds from low-
income backgrounds, the program 
also 
emphasizes 
health, 
nutrition, 
and parental involvement. Head Start 
provides training sessions for parents, 
for example, including courses in 
computer skills, résumé writing, and 
GED preparation. Keith Young, the 
agency’s male involvement coordinator 
in New Haven, works with fathers 
to encourage their engagement. The 
program has served over 22 million 
children across the nation. New Haven 
now has five Head Start sites, with 750 
children currently enrolled.
“Other programs only focus on 
getting the child ready for kindergarten,” 
Mannarino says. “Our philosophy is 
that if you strengthen the whole family 
and environment, outcomes for kids are 
better.”
The largest and most influential 
change since the program was declared at 
risk has been a complete reorganization 
of the staff to increase oversight and 
accountability. Before the audit, one 
Head Start director was responsible for 
all five sites in New Haven. Now, each 
school has a site director to oversee all 
the functions of the preschool. 
Montalvo is the site director at 
Helene Grant. “It’s much more of a 
community now,” she says. For two 
mornings, I watch her stand outside the 
building as children are dropped off. She 
greets every parent that walks through 
the double doors.
The 2009 review also found that 
children in the district weren’t getting 
dental health check-ups. It had proven 
nearly impossible, Mannarino explains, 
to make sure that hundreds of parents 
were taking their children to the dentist. 
The solution was simple and effective. A 
dentist came to the sites in a van loaded 
with equipment, and children received 
their dental exams at school.
The review additionally faulted the 
district for not engaging parents. “The 
Head Start program operated with little 
or no parental involvement in program 
decisions,” it stated. Since then, the 
program has established the Policy 
Council, a governing body comprised of 
elected parent representatives. According 
to Mannarino, the Policy Council must 
approve “basically everything” about the 
program, including matters of hiring and 
termination, transportation, and budget.
Two years after the review, reform 
efforts continue. This year the district 
introduced a new Scholastic Inc. 
curriculum. “We’ve been seeing results 
with it,” says Montalvo. Helene Grant 
School has also been the first site to 
introduce uniforms for students—
yellow polos with navy slacks and skirts. 
“Parents like it,” Montalvo explains, 
“because buying a few uniforms is less 
costly than buying lots of clothes.” 
The district passed its federal audit 
last year with flying colors. No deficiencies 
and no noncompliances were found.  
In Allison Peruso’s classroom, 
twenty children sit in a circle, quiet and 
cross-legged. “I thought it would be 
good for you to watch me write,” Mrs. 
Peruso says as she prints “Today is 
Tuesday” on the board in red marker. 


5
January 2012

After leading a chorus of the “Days of 
the Week” song, sung to the tune of 
“the Addams Family,” she points to the 
words she has written. Children raise 
their hands eagerly to answer. Many can 
read the letters on the board. 
If I didn’t know I was at the 
Helene Grant Head Start Center, a 
public preschool on Goffe Street, I 
would guess that this was a kindergarten 
classroom, and that the children sitting 
around the rug were not three and four 
years old, but five and six. A demanding 
curriculum is central to the Head Start 
program, particularly as the importance 
of early education increases in the public 
eye. “Times are changing,” says Myrna 
Montalvo, director of Helene Grant. 
“Thirty years ago, kids were not getting 
anything close to the level of preschool 
education we give today. With the pace 
of technology, kids now need to know 
more, earlier.” 
Recently, however, New Haven 
Head 
Start 
struggled 
to 
provide 
quality childcare. A 2009 investigation 
conducted by the federal Administration 
for Children and Families concluded that 
the program violated sixteen different 
regulations. 
The 
violations 
ranged 
from incomplete health screenings 
to inconsistent employee trainings to 
undistributed toothbrushes found on 
a shelf, still in their original wrappings. 
The program was labeled an “at-risk 
Head Start agency,” one of only twenty-
four cases to receive that categorization.  
Tina Mannarino, supervisor of New 
Haven Head Start, acknowledges these 
former deficiencies with grace. “When 
you think back on it,” she says of the 
investigation, “it really was very helpful. 
It gave us the clout to make some very 
big changes.” 
New Haven is the birthplace of 
Head Start. Edward Zigler, a Sterling 

When it comes to improvement, 
both Mannarino and Montalvo agree 
that the frequent reviews and audits 
conducted by federal agencies greatly 
help to keep the program in shape. 
“Even when you’re doing everything 
you’re supposed to do,” Mannarino says, 
“it’s good to have people come see you.” 
This is one reason why a recent 
policy decision by President Barack 
Obama troubles Mannarino. In an effort 
to maintain high accountability in the 
program, Obama has declared that the 
private sector preschools will be allowed 
to vie for funding with the bottom 25 
percent of Head Start sites. This aspect 
of Obama’s new plan is not, however, 
the part with which Mannarino takes 
issue. Instead, she is concerned that the 
top 75 percent of districts will not be 
reevaluated for five years. “Five years is 
a long time,” Mannarino says. Currently, 
the Administration for Children and 
Families reviews districts every three 
years. Audits and inspections by other 
agencies occur on different time cycles, 
ensuring that districts are kept on their 
toes at all times. The agency is due to 
review New Haven Head Start again 
next year. 
New Haven Head Start also 
conducts studies of its own, testing its 
four-year-olds three times a year. For 
example, New Haven Head Start offers 
both ten-hour days and six-hour days. 
The program’s studies indicated that 
their children at school for ten hours a 
day were not progressing as quickly as 
children who came for only six hours. 
“We’re taking that very seriously,” says 
Mannarino. “And we are considering 
getting rid of the ten-hour option if it is 
not needed or effective.” 
Not 
all 
changes 
have 
been 
universally popular. A teacher who has 
been in Head Start for over fifteen years 
says that some of the changes have 
imposed too much rigidity on both 
children and teachers. She cites “too 
much paperwork” and “not enough time 
and freedom to teach the children” as 
major problems. When asked where the 
burdensome restrictions come from, she 
gives me a knowing look. “They come 
from the same place where we get our 
money,” she says.
Though 
some 
might 
criticize 
excessive 
federal 
regulation, 
more 
criticize inadequate federal funding. “I 
would really like to see enough money 
for us to get all certified teachers,” says 
Mannarino. Of the five Head Start 
sites in New Haven, only at Helene 
Grant are all the teachers certified. 
“Having certified teachers makes a huge 
difference,” says Mannarino. “We never 
have gotten enough of an increase to 
support the change. We’ve been funded 
at the same level all these years, but 
health benefits and salaries keep going 
up. It’s difficult to maintain program 
quality with inflation.” In this recession, 
there are more children on the waiting 
list than ever before in district history. 
Still, the New Haven district’s many 
successes demonstrate that government 
agencies can indeed make themselves 
efficient 
and 
address 
their 
shortcomings. After talking to those 
involved in the agency, I’m tempted 
to say that its rigorous and self-critical 
approach is something that not only 
other Head Start districts but also the 
private sector might do well to emulate.
—Aria Thaker



**Feeding Occupy New Haven**
**Author:  Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Feeding Occupy 
New Haven
A string of multi-colored Christmas 
lights and the blue-green glow of 
sunlight filtered through tarp illuminate 
the food tent at Occupy New Haven. 
Several cardboard signs bluntly demand 
that occupants clean up after themselves. 
The food tent is known more officially 
as the Food/Library Tent. Half is for 
food, and half is called the lounge, 
according to demonstrator Jim Ferrara, 
a construction worker by day. “This 
is us basically,” he said, waving a hand 
at four mismatched chairs, a makeshift 
bookcase crammed with paperbacks, 
a bulletin board marred with memos, 
a battered bass drum, and a generous 
bouquet of fresh red roses.


On an unusually temperate 
November day,  protesters ranged 
outside, some preparing the tents 
for anticipated rain. Between sixty 
and eighty-five people sleep here 
regularly, depending on whom you 
ask, but many more gather for General 
Assembly planning meetings on Sunday 
afternoons. Demonstrators assemble 
not only to articulate their movement’s 
objections—to the roles of major banks 
and corporations in the democratic 
process and in the current recession—
but also to govern this new, tiny, self-
contained and well-regulated city on the 
New Haven Green. At the heart of this 
operation stands the food tent.
“We were going to have set meal 
times, but it’s too hard to get someone to 
cook,” Ferrara told me. The protesters 
rely instead on frequent spontaneous 
acts 
of 
cooperation. 
Early-rising 
protesters often make pots of oatmeal 
for the group. Some prepare vegan 
soups to be eaten communally after 
returning to the encampment from a day 
of work. Veganism and vegetarianism 
are common here, though perhaps not 
as rampant as at other Occupy protests. 
Dakota Ellingsworth, a physics student 
on a leave of absence from Carnegie 
Mellon, eats meat and was pleased to 
discover that Occupy New Haven also 
caters to the occasional omnivore. He 
arrived here after some time at Occupy 
Pittsburgh, where the meals were hot 
and regular but contained no meat. 
Ellingsworth admires New Haven’s 
protest. “They’re a good bit more 
organized than Pittsburgh,” he mused as 
he gazed upon the Food/Library Tent. 
While Occupy Pittsburgh is a larger 
protest, it’s squeezed into a tiny corner 
of downtown, not sprawled comfortably 
over a grassy expanse. Richard Riley, a 
handyman who had been here since 
three days after Occupy New Haven 

Bread, peanut butter, grape jelly, 
muffins, paper plates, napkins, and three 
pump bottles of Purell hand sanitizer 
were laid out at lunchtime that day. “I 
only want half a muffin,” Riley said, using 
a pocketknife to slice a fat blueberry one. 
He grabbed a cruller from a cardboard 
box of sticky donuts and a paper towel 
and stooped to exit the tent into the sun.
A steady stream of donations to the 
tent shows that the demonstrators enjoy 
support from the community more 
broadly. The sleek Occupy New Haven 
Web site provides a streamlined conduit 
for donations to feed the protesters. 
Specific needs—canned goods, tarps, 
socks, bug spray—are listed there 
like demands for a new world order. 
Mediterranea Café on Orange Street 
took after New York restaurants in 
offering a special vegetarian “Occu-
pie,” which sympathizers could pay to 
have delivered in bulk to protesters. Est 
Est Est and other pizzerias have also 
donated pies. 
	
 “We get it together,” Ferrara 
said. “Everybody pitches in.”
Book Trader donates bread to 
the protest. Atticus donates bread by 
default, to occupiers who requisition 
the bags of day-old baguette the store 
dumps on Chapel Street. Currently, 
the protesters have a surplus of bread. 
Ferrara worried aloud that their other 
supplies were getting low, though it 
certainly didn’t look that way to me. A 
cadre of bookcases contained canned 
vegetables and beans and pasta—and 
confectioner’s sugar, instant coffee, an 
economy-sized bottle of Vitamin C. A 
crate of pears, apples, carrots, and red 
potatoes rested on a makeshift bench. 
The potato peelings were destined for a 
special bin nearby. Occupy New Haven, 
like other Occupy protests, composts. 
	
The occupiers don’t have a refrigerator, 
but they do have a camping stove for 
cooking, a five-gallon water cooler that 
could have been borrowed from an office 
break room, and a fire extinguisher close 
at hand. Smoking is prohibited inside the 
food tent. Matt Smith, a construction 
worker with tattoos encircling his left 
bicep, chastised and chased away another 
occupier with a lit cigarette. Smith has 
spent every night on the Green for the 
past week and a half and hopes everyone 
will stay into the spring. “Hopefully 
through the winter, at least.”
	
Riley was also thinking ahead to the 
first frost. When I met him, he had 
just finished raking leaves. He said his 
freelance repair work usually slows 
down in the winter. “So I’ll be able to 
concentrate, make this my job, help 
people winterize their tents.” A few 
days later, demonstrators would line the 
food tent with insulating foamboard 
and lay linoleum to keep it clean. They 
plan to install a solar-powered heater. 
The Occupy movement’s long-term 
demands may be idealistic, but the 
immediate goals of this village are clear 
and sensible. Prepare the tents for rain 
or snow. Cook a pot of soup and clean 
up the mess. Wait.
—Jacque Feldman


**Built to Last**
**Author:  Zachary Rotholz ’11**
**Page number(s): 6**

Built to Last
Zachary Rotholz ’11, the 22-year-
old who opened a cardboard furniture 
store on York Street this September, is 
getting tired of explaining his work to 
customers. He maintains a friendly and 
enthusiastic attitude. Yet when he’s asked 
for what feels like the millionth time, “Is 
the chair sturdy?” you can hear a bit of 
fatigue and boredom in his response:
“There’s only one way to find out! 
Try it!”
Rotholz explains that he has to sell 
his products twice. First, he must sell 
the concept of Chairigami. Only after 
that can he sell the furniture itself. He 
has also come to realize that he himself 
is as much on display as is any piece of 
furniture in the room. Visitors hit him 
with all the frequently asked questions. 
Why did you decide on cardboard? How 
do you come up with your designs? 
Sometimes, the questions are personal. A 
Yale student on assignment for a writing 
class asked him about his love life. 
At first, Rotholz appreciated the 
attention. “It was nice being called 
‘the Chairigami Guy,’ ” he said. “But 
sometimes, I want to talk about 
something other than cardboard…” 



**Chairigami**
**Author: Justine Yan**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7
January 2012
Chairigami 
was 
getting 
media 
attention even before business took 
off. By mid-November, Rotholz had 
made around ten thousand dollars in 
revenue. A steady stream of customers 
orders cardboard chairs, sofas, shelves, 
and tables for homes, offices, and dorm 
rooms. A wave of publicity hit Rotholz 
at the end of November, when he 
was featured on Connecticut’s WFSB 
Channel 3 Eyewitness News. CNN 
also broadcast the two-minute clip. 
Overnight, Rotholz’s Web site received 
fifteen thousand hits. E-mails poured in. 
Some people wanted to order furniture; 
others attached images of their own 
ideas for cardboard innovation.
Rotholz 
has 
received 
several 
requests to complete big projects. The 
first one he’s accepted is to design an 
entire office’s worth of furniture for a 
tech startup located in downtown New 
Haven. He claims that the furniture he 
sells suits the “urban nomad” way of 
life, because it is conveniently light and 
quick to assemble, recyclable, and easy to 
personalize.


Rotholz is ambivalent about his 
success. “A lot of people are saying ‘Go 
Zach!’ I feel like people are rooting for 
me more than I’m rooting for myself,” 
he said. “It’s a kind of weird cognitive 
dissonance. People are saying good job, 
but I feel like I’m not doing much. I 
wouldn’t rather be doing anything else, 
so I really have nothing to complain 
about. But I’m stuck in a rut right now.”


Appearing on national television 
isn’t a source of pride for Rotholz. He 
says he’s uncertain about whether he 
deserves all the publicity he’s getting. 
The notoriety was so easy to achieve, he 
says, that it disturbs him. “It feels like a 
big balloon, you know? It’s so empty.”


Rotholz thinks of his store as a 
place to meet new people and exchange 
ideas, a kind of “social experiment,” he 
said, but not as a permanent home for 
his talent. Initially, he wanted to see if 
people would buy his cardboard designs 
and to change the way some people think 
about furniture and environmentally 
sustainable lifestyles. 


When Rotholz secured his lease 
for the storefront late last summer, his 
supporters, including vice president 
of New Haven and State Affairs and 
Campus Development Bruce Alexander 
’65, expected Chairigami to expand 
quickly and eventually to provide jobs 
to members of the local community. 
But Rotholz is not sure he wants to 
expand, and he’s not sure he likes being 
a manager. He has not yet committed 
to a long-term plan. Rotholz’s lease 
was initially scheduled to end on 
September 30, and then it was extended 
to December 30. He doesn’t know how 
much longer he wants to stay in New 
Haven; he hasn’t decided if he wants to 
set up a store somewhere else, or if he 
just wants to run his business through 
his Web site. He bikes to work each day 
in a Charigami T-shirt, well-worn jeans, 
and Converse sneakers. 


He also says he wants to work at 
his own pace. Rotholz has turned down 
offers from several potential investors, 
afraid of losing control to a “shark”—
his term for a successful, experienced, 
fast-talking entrepreneur who might take 
advantage of the naïveté of someone 
like Rotholz. He has accepted two 
interns to help with manufacturing, but 
every few weeks, another design student 
who has heard of Chairigami’s success 
sends Rotholz a résumé, or brings in a 
portfolio. Still, he wants to keep things 
simple. No one has given Rotholz 
instructions, but he’s been learning how 
to deal with everything that goes into 
running a business, from lawyers to 
trademarks. 


One of Rotholz’s “sharks” marched 
into the store on a Friday night in 
November. The businessman almost 
immediately suggested partnering with 
Chairigami on a major project. “What 
if I ordered five thousand dollars worth 
of chairs and tables right now? Would 
you be able to handle that capacity?” he 
asked. 


“I don’t know. I’d do my best,” 
Rotholz responded. 


Later, the two sat down on 
one of the cardboard sofas, and the 
businessman pulled out his iPhone to 
show Rotholz a picture of his newborn 
baby. “Wow, congratulations,” said 
Rotholz, genuinely but calmly.


“How much do you care about 
making money?” asked the entrepreneur.


Rotholz shrugged and shook his 
head. “Not much.” They shook hands 
and promised to further discuss project 
details soon.


“I hate charging people money,” 
Rotholz told me. “I never know if I’m 
overcharging or undercharging. I wish I 
could just use a bartering system. Like, 
‘I’ll make you this, and you can make me 
food.’ ”


Many more people visit Chairigami 
as friends than as customers. Strangers 
drop by to give moral support. Local 
musicians leave handwritten “business 
cards” with him and tell him to check 
out their Web sites. A man Rotholz 
suspected to be schizophrenic walked 
into the store just because he was lonely 
and needed someone to talk to. 


Rotholz speaks readily with these 
visitors without betraying any desire to 
impress. People are very generous with 
their kind words and advice, he said. 
Often, because they share so much 
of their lives and ideas with him, he is 
inspired to design new things that people 
want—an iPad stand, a toddler’s chair, a 
beer pong table. 


Sometimes visitors challenge him, 
but at this point, Rotholz doesn’t feel the


--- Page 8 ---

8
The New Journal
              POINTS OF DEPARTURE
Katharine Knoietzko
The Innovation 
Scene
need to persuade people to accept his 
concepts or his designs. 


“Kind of a fire hazard, huh?” a man 
suggested.


“Just as much of one as the library 
across the street,” Rotholz replied.


“The products should be able to 
speak for themselves,” he said to me. 
“Personally, I’m not attached to the 
objects I make. I’m attached to the 
process. Since I’m never really satisfied, 
never truly proud of anything I make, 
I’m not so attached to the final product. 
I don’t linger.” 


Rotholz has memorized most of 
his designs; he doesn’t usually need to 
consult his notes for measurements 
and procedures. He folds and cuts the 
cardboard without hesitation or the aid 
of a ruler, drawing the blade through the 
material in swift and steady slices. “After 
I designed my first chair, everything was 
somehow derived from that,” he said. 


If Rotholz could spend all his time 
making furniture, he would be happy. 
He says he would much rather work as 
a member of a team, manufacturing all 
day, than manage the whole operation. 
It’s really hard to be your own boss, he 
says. “Marketing is really weird. You have 
to create the need, create the problem,” 
he said. “I want to solve problems.”


As a child, Rotholz’s Lego creations 
never lasted for more than a few 
moments. After building something, he’d 
quickly take it apart to start on something 
new. He wouldn’t linger on his products 
then, and he doesn’t linger on his 
cardboard creations now. But Rotholz 
says his mother recently reminded him 
that Chairigami has real promise, and 
the company is worth sustaining and 
developing. Rotholz’s challenge now 
is not innovation or persuasion. What 
he needs is the conviction to stick to 
Chairigami.
—Justine Yan


**The Innovation Scene**
**Author: Katharine Knoietzko**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

I paused before entering The 
Grove, a sleek “coworking” space on 
Orange Street. Someone inside opened 
the door for me and said, “Don’t be shy.” 
In fact, I was hardly noticed. It was a 
Sunday afternoon, and Startup Weekend 
New Haven, a three-day marathon 
of networking, pitching, coding, and 
designing, was drawing to a close. 
Startup Weekend, a nonprofit 
organization, has been holding similar 
marathons around the world since 2007. 
This was the first in New Haven. Eighty 
participants from across the country 
attended between November 11 and 
13. Most were from the New Haven 
area, but others hailed from New York, 
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Virginia, 
and 
Ohio. 
They 
included 
adults, 
students, and a precocious adolescent 
from Catherine M. McGee Middle 
School in Berlin, Connecticut. 
Later that day, fourteen teams would 
demonstrate their work to an audience 
of about 140 people. The winner 
would receive funding, legal services, 
Web hosting, and space to develop the 
project—all crucial ingredients for a 
new business. With the deadline fast 
approaching, team members—many 
of whom hadn’t met before Friday 
afternoon—were scrambling to finalize 
business pitches and polish their work. 
They were sleep-deprived and over-
caffeinated, but their enthusiasm was 
still obvious. “Things get done when 
people roll up their sleeves and do work 
together,” said event organizer Derek 
Koch. The eventual victorious startups 
were Shuga Trak, software for teenagers 
with diabetes that connects glucose 
meters to mobile phones; MeritBooster.
com, a Web site to raise money for youth 
projects; and SociaBO, a dating app. One 
of the founders of MeritBooster.com 
was that lone thirteen-year-old, Keshav 
Patel.


There are currently around fifty 
startups in New Haven, most of 
them in information technology or 
biotechnology. Connecticut Innovations 
operates a program at Yale’s Science 
Park that gives tech startups office space 
and access to resources. That program 
has reached capacity, and new venues—
among them The Grove and another 
called 
The 
Bourse—have 
opened 
to provide more working space for 
startups. They encourage “coworking,” 
or collaborative work in shared space. 
Those familiar with the New Haven 
startup scene say that the city has plenty 
to offer entrepreneurs. Ben Berkowitz is 
one of the founders of SeeClickFix, a 
New Haven-based company that allows 
people to report neighborhood issues to 
their local governments online. He finds 
New Haven a “less distracting” place to 
work that is still convenient to New York 
City. He may be biased—he also designs 
and sells popular “New Haven. It’s better 
than your town” T-shirts—but New 
Haven’s startup scene is certainly more 
successful than Hartford’s, Bridgeport’s, 
or New London’s. The concentration of 
talent and resources here has reached 
a critical mass, creating a city that is 
financially and socially appealing to 
those wishing to start companies. 


In October, Governor Dannel 
Malloy launched Startup Connecticut 
to 
promote 
this 
entrepreneurial 
culture throughout the state, investing 
$25 million a year for the next five 
years. Startup Connecticut belongs 
to the Startup America Partnership, a


--- Page 9 ---

9
national organization created to give 
entrepreneurs funding and guidance. 
Startup America unites an alliance 
of private-sector organizations while 
pushing for public policy that would 
make the entire country more hospitable 
to entrepreneurship. Connecticut is only 
the third state to have its own chapter.


Connecticut has traditionally 
hosted fewer new startups and small 
companies than other states. New 
York City and Boston dominate the 
entrepreneurial scene in this part of 
the country. But Connecticut’s strong 
educational institutions and established 
engineering companies, such as Pratt 
& Whitney, United Technologies, and 
General Electric, could help the state 
to encourage new businesses. Those 
behind Startup Connecticut hope to 
transform the state into a model of 
entrepreneurship by harnessing these 
resources while providing generous 
funding and tax breaks. 


Entrepreneurs and their funders 
don’t always see eye-to-eye on the best 
way to turn the state into a startup 
hotbed. The goal of Startup Connecticut 
is to create many jobs quickly. Its stated 
mission is to “launch many more startups 
in a much shorter timeframe” while also 
supporting smaller firms, according to 
its Web site. But some entrepreneurs 
say it can take time to develop the right 
conditions for good new companies. 
Miles Lasater, an entrepreneur 
involved with Higher One, which aims 
to help universities with their financial 
aid systems, wrote in an e-mail that 
building a productive environment for 
startups could take decades. “It will take 
sustained attention and work by all the 
players to continue to focus,” he wrote.


Startup Connecticut is an ambitious 
endeavor, and experienced entrepreneurs 
note that new projects may take some 
time to enact. “Creative development 
takes time, though it is true that creativity 
can happen in a flash,” said Jonathan 
Feinstein, a professor at Yale’s School 
of Management. “It can take years to 
lay the groundwork for those creative 
moments.” Still, although the effects of 
Startup Connecticut remain to be seen, 
most agree that Connecticut is a much 
more exciting place for entrepreneurs 
than it was even six months ago.
—Julia Calagiovanni


**Ghosts On the Green**
**Page number(s): 9**

It’s impossible to know just how 
many bones lie below the surface of the 
New Haven Green, but there are certainly 
more than nine hundred skeletons’ 
worth, belonging to six generations of 
early New Haven residents. The remains 
of the colonial city’s settlers, magistrates, 
soldiers, slaves, and merchants were 
interred here centuries ago. If you were 
to walk the lawn on a grim winter night, 
you might sense something otherworldly 
flitting among the benches and trees 
of the city’s historical center. Near 
the flagpole, you might unknowingly 
tread on the final resting place of Isaac 
Allerton, a pilgrim who arrived on these 
shores with the Mayflower. Or those of 
Governor Theophilus Eaton, the first 
governor of the colony of New Haven 
from 1639 to 1658, and his son-in-law 
Deputy Governor William Jones, whose 
dust sleeps close to the northwest corner 
of Center Church. 


Dust, bones, or fraying cuffs, 
there’s no predicting the current state 
of these corpses, said Connecticut 
state archeologist Nicholas Bellantoni. 
“Survival of organic materials all 
depends on soil acidity,” he explained. 
“If we were to exhume the graves, we 
could find perfectly intact bodies or all 
that remains could be rusting nails.” 


colonial 
community 
congregated in death under the Green, 
but they also gathered there in life, 
bringing their horses, black coats, Bibles, 
and long, gathered dresses to talk about 
political issues and to buy and sell 
goods. With three churches, occasional 
social gatherings, and more recently, 
the encampment of the Occupy New 
Haven protesters, the Green still retains 
part of its original function as the city’s 
meeting ground. It was, as Reverend Dr. 
Leonard Bacon said in 1879, a place “for 
the concourse of the people, for all such 
public uses as were reserved of old by 
the forum at Rome.” It was unusual for 
a colonial New England city to bury its 
dead beneath its green, though Boston 
was another that used its common as a 
burial ground. 


The unfenced cemetery eventually 
extended to all corners of the Green, and 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Katharine Konietzko**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
The New Journal
Katharine Konietzko
crowded with tombstones and overrun 
with weeds. “It is not for ye health that 
ye burying place should be where it is,” 
declared Governor Francis Newman in 
May 1659. He died a year later and was 
buried beneath the Green’s marketplace. 
A rickety red fence was constructed 
in the late eighteenth century to improve 
the overgrown plot’s appearance and keep 
out chickens and hogs, but the bodies of 
New Haven’s citizens continued to be 
piled together indiscriminately beneath 
the soil. An attempt to build a new 
monument for John Dixwell in 1849 
behind Center Church unearthed the 
remains of sixteen people in a twelve-
foot space just two feet below the surface. 
(John Dixwell, one of the judges who 
tried King Charles I of England, fled 
England for the safety of New Haven 
after condemning the monarch to death. 
Dixwell’s original 1689 monument is still 
visible behind Center Church.)
James Hillhouse, Yale’s treasurer 
for fifty years and a vocal anti-slavery 
leader, finally proposed a solution to the 
overcrowding below ground in 1796, 
after two pestilential years. In those days, 
midnight burials, which had become 
popular in sixteenth-century England, 
were still common. Neighbors living on 
the Green sometimes woke to the light 
of torches and the murmur of the burial 
service—perhaps accompanied by the 
smell of rum and hard liquor, which 
mourners traditionally drank at funerals.
Hillhouse purchased six acres on 
Grove Street, then on the outskirts of 
the burgeoning city, and argued for “a 
new burial ground, …better calculated 
to impress the mind with a solemnity 
becoming the repository of the dead.” 
Grove Street Cemetery was established, 
and burials on the Green became less 
frequent. The last person to be laid to 
rest there in 1812 was a Mrs. Martha 
Whittlesey. 
Today, if you wander into Grove 
Street Cemetery, the epitaph of a priest 
or blacksmith from the eighteenth 
century 
may 
greet 
you—but 
dig 
beneath the weathered gravestone, and 
you likely will not find bodily remains. 
The appearance of the burial ground 
on the Green was so neglected that in 
1820, a committee recommended that 
the city pay for the relocation of the 
gravestones to the new burying ground. 
The bones of the Green’s inhabitants 
were not disinterred, but left instead to 
rot namelessly where they lay. Bellantoni 
explained it was not uncommon to move 
the gravestones and not the bodies in 
Puritan New England. “Mortal remains 
were not worth much—many times you 
did not even have a graveside cemetery,” 
he said. “Your eternal soul, not mortal 
remains, was what was important.” 
But if you didn’t believe that the 
spirits of all good Puritans went to 
heaven, it was easy to feel spooked 
walking with the full moon shining 
through the elms. Some New Haven 
residents, now long dead themselves, 
testified that they encountered ghosts. 
In 1814, Yale University president 
Timothy Dwight published the story 
of the sixteen-year-old blacksmith who 
claimed to have followed one back to his 
grave. An account from the end of the 
nineteenth century describes a group of 
intoxicated Yale students who decided 
to wander across the green at midnight. 
They called out, “Arise ye dead and 
come to judgment!” As the story goes, 
a white figure rose and rushed towards 
them, crying, “Yes, Lord, I’m coming!” 
Today, though, the colonists’ souls 
seem to abide peacefully below ground. 
Perhaps they’ve all already gone to their 
Lord, or perhaps they’re in another place, 
one even deeper than the dirt below the 
Green.
—Olivia Rosenthal


**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Vlad Chituc**
**Page number(s): 12**

12
              SNAPSHOT
S
weet Mother’s 
Milk, $13.75	
Bun Lai grinned like an excited 
teenager as a group of older women 
asked him about Sweet Mother’s 
Milk, an appetizer. Lai, the owner and 
celebrated head chef at Miya’s Sushi on 
Howe Street, was sitting across from me 
as I sipped from a bowl of earthy miso 
soup. On my right stood bottles of sake 
infusions and oils flavored with garlic 
gloves and chilis, which sent red and 
yellow hues dancing on the table below. 


**Title: GONE FISHING**
**Author: Earl Lee**

Miya’s chef Bun Lai 
tackles sustainability 
and sea life.



**Title: Miya's Sushi**
**Author: Vlad Chituc**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“It’s actually really great,” Lai said, 
getting up. “In some cultures, midwives 
actually breastfeed young babies, but 
when they’re done they usually still 
produce milk for a while. So what we 
do is have them harvest it, and we use 
that milk to make cheese.” A second 
of hushed silence passed. The women’s 
smiles started to drop. Bun went on, 
“Yeah, it’s really sustainable and socially 
conscious.” 

I froze, and my mind raced to make 
sure that I’d heard him right. Before 
I could even start to think through 
the potential ethical implications of 
serving person-cheese, Lai’s straight face 
collapsed. “Nah, I’m just fucking with 
you—it’s artichoke heart,” he laughed, 
breaking out into a broad grin. I learned 
quickly that Lai has a particular sort of 
deadpan humor, like comedian Zach 
Galifinakis if Galifinakis were an athletic 
Asian-American sushi pioneer.

Raised in New Haven, Lai is the 
son of a Cambridge-educated surgeon 
and a Japanese nutritionist. In 1982, his 
mother, Yoshiko Lai, opened Miya’s, 
named for her daughter, as New Haven’s 
first sushi restaurant. 

As Lai told me more about the 
restaurant’s history, I turned my attention 
to the miso soup and took another 
sip. Rich cubes of potatoes, buoyant 
mushrooms, and dark, silky seaweed 
balanced each mouthful of lightly salted 
broth. “I dove for that seaweed myself 
this weekend,” Lai said with noticeable 
pride. He harvests oysters and seaweed 
in one hundred acres of coastal water 
off the Thimble Islands in the Long 
Island Sound.

“Our kelp has more vitamin C than 
an orange and more protein than a steak,” 
he said. It was a brand-new recipe, and 
he was ordering each customer a bowl 
on the house. With each bowl, he’d say 
those exact words to the customer—I 
must have heard them at least a dozen 
times. 

Under Lai’s mother, Miya’s was 
a traditional sushi bar, serving classic 
dishes with standard sushi ingredients—
Bluefin tuna, shrimp, eel, sea urchin, and 
red snapper. When Lai took over, the 
dishes became more adventurous. 
Now, the majority of Miya’s 
offerings are vegetarian, in large part 
due to the comparatively low ecological 
impact 
of 
eating 
plants. 
Miya’s 
advertises, even boasts, that it serves “the 
Northeast’s only sustainable sushi” in its 
sprawling and self-indulgent menu—a 
fifty-five-page dissertation on food, the 
environment, and Miya’s culture, filled 
with the exotic names of Lai’s rolls: 
Kilgore Trout, Romping with the Goats, 
the Bad Tempered Geisha Boy. 

In my late teens, I became a 
vegetarian, but, like many others, 
I realized that I was actually pretty 
“You shouldn’t be 
able to walk into a 
sushi restaurant 
and ask them 
where their fish 
comes from, and 
get back an 
‘I don’t know.’ ”


O.K. with eating fish. Save for a few 
surprisingly bright creatures like octopi 
and squid, the marine animals we 
eat are generally about as sentient as 
rocks, plants, or, more charitably, bugs. 
Compared to beef, their associated 
greenhouse gas emissions are low. But 
eating fish still raises other ethical and 
environmental concerns. 

“I got interested in sustainability 
about eight years ago,” Lai told me, as he 
signaled to the servers to bring out a few 
dishes, “and shrimp was the one of the 
first things to go.” Shrimp accounts for 
only about two percent of the world’s 
seafood consumption, but nearly one-
third of the bycatch. This unwanted fish 
caught in the same nets as the shrimp is 
discarded back into the ocean, usually 
dead or dying. For some shrimp trawl 
fisheries, bycatch accounts for as much 
as 90 percent of a given yield.

Shrimp farming also can devastate 
local ecosystems. Ecuador, a coastal 
republic in South America, has had nearly 
half a million acres of coastal mangrove 
rainforests cleared in order to support an 
industry that exports 95 percent of its 
shrimp to the United States. “For us to 
serve cheap shrimp, future Ecuadorians 
won’t have the freedom to make a living 
off of their natural resources. It’s a 
social justice issue,” Bun explained, as 
his servers brought out a massive slab of 
rock with a half-dozen rolls on top. 

T
he Kanibaba 
Roll, 5 pieces, 
$25.75
The Kanibaba roll is soft-shelled 
crabmeat, wrapped in warm and savory 
potato, topped with lemon dill, a toasted 
Havarti cheese sauce, and a few strands 
of green onion. A handful of small, 
bright red crabs garnish the dish, as 
if climbing seaside rocks topped with 
seaweed. 

“This used to have shrimp in it, and 
it was our most popular dish,” Lai told 
me. I looked suspiciously at the crab on 
top. “That’s an Asian shore crab I caught 
myself,” he said. “Eat it last.” I scanned 
his face for signs that he was joking, and 
couldn’t find any. 

I decided to come back to the crab. 
I lifted it off the top and set it aside, then 
took a bite of the rich, cheesy potato 
roll. I felt as if I’d blacked out for a few 
seconds, then came to with a stupid 
grin on my face and an inexplicable 
craving for a cigarette. This wasn’t the 
type of roll you imagine when you hear 
“sustainable sushi.”

I took a look at the crab I set aside, 
and the bite I had left of my kanibaba. 
“Might as well,” I thought, as I placed 
the crab on top of the roll, and raised 
them both to my mouth with Miya’s 
sleek metal chopsticks. The shell and 
meat were brittle but delicious. 

Asian shore crabs migrated to this 
continent in the ballast of freighters 
Brianne Bowen
Bun Lai and the 
author go 
crabbing at Silver 
Sands Beach in 
Milford, 
Connecticut.


in the eighties, and have now taken 
up residence in beaches all along the 
Northeast coast. They’re a destructive 
invasive species. They eat the larvae 
and plankton on which local fish 
and shellfish subsist. With no natural 
predators to keep them in check, Asian 
shore crabs are quickly displacing native 
crab populations. Lai does his part by 
using them in his dishes. “I’ll have to 
take you out to catch them, sometime,” 
he told me.

Not long after my meal at Miya’s, 
Lai and I met up with a friend of his, 
Will Reynolds, as we made our way 
to Silver Sands Beach in Milford, 
Connecticut. Reynolds, a charismatic 
filmmaker who recently moved to New 
Haven, met Lai at Miya’s. “He took me 
under his wing,” Reynolds said. The two 
belted Das Racist’s “Combination Pizza 
Hut and Taco Bell” as we arrived. I’m at 
the Pizza Hut. We grabbed a large white 
bucket from the back of Bun’s car—I’m 
at the Taco Bell—and made our way to the 
craggy rocks on the cold, late-November 
sand. I’m at the combination Pizza Hut and 
Taco Bell. 

Lai’s method for hunting Asian 
shore crabs is simple. He turns over 
rocks on the beach, hoping he’ll find the 
crabs hiding underneath. We flipped over 
seven rocks without much luck, startling 
one or two crabs the size of quarters 
that tried to scuttle away. Lai, Reynolds, 
and I picked them up and threw them in 
the bucket. Soon we hit our stride.

“Look under rocks that are big, 
flat, and not too deep. They need room 
to get under there,” Lai said. We found 
one that looked good—it took both Lai 
and me to flip—and heard Reynolds 
shout in surprise. A mass of about two 
dozen writhing crabs scurried for cover 
or played dead. We laughed and grabbed 
them by the handful.

After about an hour our fingers 
were frozen, but we had a bucket full 
of crabs. It crackled like a bowl of Rice 
Krispies. “This will last us a while,” Bun 
laughed, as we made our way back to 
Miya’s, where the crabs would be boiled, 
seasoned, and served.


S
akura Sashimi, 5 
slices, $18.75	
Thin slices of light pink tilapia are 
treated with sea salt and lime and infused 
with beet pulp, staining the edges a deep 
purple. Inspired by Inuit tradition, Lai 
has frozen the slices of fish, curling up 
the edges. Five of the large slices are 
arranged on a plate in a circle, like the 
petals of a large flower. They taste as 
delicious as they look. The frozen fish 
melts in my mouth. 

More unexpectedly, the tilapia 
used in the dish is from the Bridgeport 
Regional 
Aquaculture 
Science 
and 
Technology 
Education 
Center, 
a 
vocational high school more than twenty 
miles from Miya’s. Deep within the 
expansive coastal campus, John Curtis, 
the school’s director, gave Lai and me 
a tour of the hatchery. Lai and Curtis 
laughed like old friends—Lai laughs 
with everyone like old friends—as I 
looked into the wide, white tanks that 
circled the room. Inside the tanks were 
gray fish the size of my calf, swimming 
in green and salty water. Students at the 
school hatch, raise, and sell the fish, 
working sustainably at every step. “I’ll 
buy anything these guys will sell me,” Lai 
says, laughing. 

To Lai, knowing where fish comes 
from is hugely important. “We used 
to get our seafood from a Japanese 
company and we had no idea where it 
came from. You shouldn’t be able to 
walk into a sushi restaurant and ask 
them where their fish comes from, and 
get back an ‘I don’t know.’ ” 

“There has to be traceability in 
seafood,” he said later. “I’d like to see 
a shift to treating fish and seafood a 
lot like wine: there should be policy 
enforcing origin.”

Ariana 
Bain, 
sustainability 
consultant and graduate of the Yale 
School of Forestry and Environmental 
Studies, helps Lai ensure supply lines 
are traceable. “Working with Bun is 
hilarious,” she said. “I’m a very sort of 
rational, logical person. I’m involved in 
the back-end operations because Bun 
knows it’s something he’s not really 
strong at.”

“Everything’s always fluid with Bun, 
because he’s an artist,” she told me.

K
iribati Sashimi, 
10 slices, 
$12.75
Lai’s activism stretches further than 
limiting his own ecological impact. He 
also strives to raise awareness about 
the damage unsound choices make to 
humans. A server brought out our last 
dish, Kiribati sashimi. A dozen or so 
thin, pink slices of fish were sprinkled 
with brown, red, and black spices and 
arranged like a large flower on the center 
of a small plate. The perimeter slices 
lay like petals, with a few pieces rolled 
tightly in the center, standing up and 
spiraling out like a rose bud. 

“Kiribati is an island nation in the 
Pacific Ocean only a dozen feet or so 
above sea level. Scientists estimate that 
it will be under water in the next fifty 
years,” Lai told me as I put a slice of the 
soft and salty meat on my tongue. The 
tangy salt used in the dish was imported 
from Kiribati, “their only natural 
resource,” Lai said. “We designed the 
spices to simultaneously warm and cool 
your palette. It’s a metaphor for climate 
change.”

Lai and I finished our drinks late 
in the evening, long after it grew dark 
and nearly four hours after I’d arrived. I 
stood up to thank Bun for his hospitality. 
He hugged me good-bye and said, “I’ll 
see you around, brother!” I left Miya’s 
with a stomach full of warm sake, cheap 
beer, and seafood that I had enjoyed with 
a clean conscience. As I was leaving, I 
looked back and saw the restaurant’s 
logo in the large window: “Because man 
cannot live on rice alone.” 

I smiled, knowing that at Miya’s, 
man didn’t have to.
TNJ



**Title: Registered Offense**
**Author: Aliyya Swaby**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The state’s system for regulating sex offenders, which has forced several to live in a hotel next to campus, is unjust and unsafe.


Hotel Duncan is tucked discreetly next to Yale University’s campus, on Chapel Street, across the street from an art school building. It is marked by a tall vertical sign with golden letters that no one seems to take the time to look up at. The hotel’s own Web site calls it “eccentric.” Online reviews of the hotel either excoriate its noisy heating system and stained amenities, or forgive the hotel’s drawbacks in view of its prices (around sixty dollars per night). The hotel claims to have the oldest hand-cranked elevator in the state of Connecticut.

And according to the Connecticut Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection’s sex offender registry, the Duncan also currently serves as a permanent residence for seven convicted sex offenders. (I later learned that one of them had moved, but the registry had yet to be updated.)

Phillip Palmieri lives there. On July 14, 2006, he was convicted of second-degree sexual assault for having sex with a minor. The girl was 14 and he was 32. I met with Palmieri in the hotel’s lobby, because he felt uncomfortable speaking about the topic in a coffee shop or in any other public place. I knew his basic measurements from the state registry—the 40-year-old Caucasian male stands at a modest five-foot-seven and weighed, when the information was last updated, 180 pounds. He was released from prison on June 17, 2008.

In person, Palmieri looks leaner, younger, and better groomed than in his photo on the registry. His hair is dyed jet-black and he wears skinny jeans. As we spoke, his ice-blue eyes were animated and his tone was energetic.

I had never met a sex offender before this encounter. I knew the story of Megan Kanka: on July 29, 1994, in a town in New Jersey, Jesse Timmendequas lured the seven-year-old girl into his house across the street from hers, raped her and then strangled her with a belt.  Timmendequas had had two previous sex convictions, but the Kanka family was never informed of this about their neighbor. In response, national and state governments made major changes in the way they legislate where sex offenders can live and how specific information about these crimes is relayed to the public.

But there are still problems with the system. Because the state registry does not provide detailed information about offenders’ crimes, I assumed Palmieri had forcibly raped his victim. The idea of seven convicted rapists living only a tenth of a mile away from my dorm room sounded to me, a 20-year-old woman studying at Yale, like the premise of an improbable horror film. The scariest aspect of the situation wasn’t their crimes, but the fact that I didn’t know enough about them to be able to judge the level of potential danger for myself.

Palmieri says he “fucked up.” He had just come out of a divorce after a five-year marriage with a woman seven years older than he was. When he met the 14-year-old on a “Gothic” social networking site, he was in bad shape, he says, “at the bottom of the barrel.”

The legal age of consent in Connecticut—and in most other states—is 16. Palmieri says he thought the age of consent was 15 years old, a “misguided conception” based on the fact that a few of his friends at the time were dating 15-year-olds without any trouble. But the girl was not even going to be 15 for two more weeks.


The relationship was consensual, Palmieri says. “I hate to break anyone’s heart, but no, I didn’t hold her down and put a knife to her throat. That’s what people think. It’s a hard stigma to break free from,” he says. Palmieri, as the registry indicates, was convicted of sexual assault in the second degree, which does not involve force in Connecticut law.

The state is in the process of complying with a federal mandate to include more information on the state registry, which will help clarify individuals’ crimes and separate higher-risk sex offenders from those less likely to harm their communities after incarceration. As I listened to Palmieri’s stories as well as those of two other sex offenders, however, I realized that the proposed legislation will not resolve major problems in the way our system treats sex offenders. The failure to distinguish between low- and high-risk offenders is not limited to the registry, but affects the entire system. It’s a system, I became convinced, that is counterproductive, preventing many low-risk offenders from reintegrating into society, increasing the likelihood that they will commit crimes and putting the rest of us in greater danger.


There is no law in Connecticut regulating where sex offenders are allowed to live. Instead, the Court Support Services Division in the state judicial system oversees probation officers who create customized plans for individual offenders once they are released from prison, explained the division’s director, William Carbone.

Finding a place for a sex offender to live is always difficult, he said. The state employs what Carbone calls a “containment model,” in which a probation officer, treatment clinician, and an advocate for the victim collaborate with each other and the offender to determine the optimal post-incarceration plan. This includes determining where the sex offender is allowed to live. The ultimate decision on where offenders are allowed to live rests with the probation officer.

Usually an important part of each plan is preventing the offender from living in close proximity to those under the age of 16, in order to prevent the offenders from committing another crime, Carbone said. Because of this requirement, many sex offenders end up living in shelters until the state can find housing for them. This effect may be mitigated to some extent when Connecticut’s first residential treatment facility opens in Montville, Connecticut, in a few months, after a long battle between legislators and angry community members. The facility will help sex offenders readjust to life outside prison. But the facility only has twenty-four beds, not nearly enough space for all the offenders who might need it. And when they leave the facility, those offenders will still have to find homes, which can be difficult for anyone with a sexual assault charge on their record.

Hotel Duncan is not an anomaly in its housing seven sex offenders, Carbone said, though he did not know of the hotel specifically. There are many reasons why probation officers might direct offenders to the hotel, he said, including that it is not in the immediate vicinity of minors. Officer David Hartman of the New Haven Police Department said the department does not pay close attention to specific residences on the registry unless there is reason to do so. There been no cause for concern at Hotel Duncan, he said.

Palmieri has lived at the Duncan since he was released, because it was the cheapest place he was allowed to live. He is unemployed, collecting odd jobs here and there from employers willing to overlook his felony charge. He had his own place before the conviction but couldn’t afford it after prison. He also considered moving back in with his parents, but there were minors living in the apartment complex, so he wasn’t allowed.

”It was either this or the homeless shelter,” he explains. Palmieri has seven more years on probation.

Although finding a new place that probation will approve seems like a matter of sheer luck, getting out of the hotel is not impossible. In the past year, there has been some turnover as three offenders moved out and one moved in, according to my perusals of the registry since last winter. Edward Boppert used to live in the Duncan but moved six months ago to West Haven, to an apartment his brother helped him find. Compared to Palmieri, Boppert seems deflated when I meet him, like something’s been beaten out of him. He’s 68, a retired multi-machine operator now settled with a pension and Social Security. He seems determined to hold on tight to what he has, simply by being unassuming, and he takes pride in his success so far.

Boppert urges me to talk to the manager of the Hotel Duncan, his former landlord, as a “reference.” His reasons for speaking to me are clear: he has been convicted of a crime and wishes to change society’s negative perception of him.

“He’ll stick up for me. He’ll say that I always minded my own business,” Boppert says earnestly about his landlord.

In the letter I originally sent to Boppert requesting an interview, I made no promises. I explained I was looking for an account of his experiences reintegrating into society since he was released from prison. In order to make my request seem more palatable, I asked for the parts of his story he was willing to share—the details he was not willing to share, he could omit. I don’t want to believe that the details of his or the other two sex offenders’ stories were false, but at the same time, I don’t know what they chose not to tell.

When I ask him to explain how he got into trouble in the first place, Boppert gets quiet. “It was—” He looks around the Starbucks to make sure no one is watching and then cups a hand beside his mouth and leans toward me. “It was just computing,” he whispers. I press him for details.

“Computing,” he whispers again, then feels obliged to elaborate. “Porn.”

“Like…children?” I say. Of course, I already know most of Boppert’s story from the registry. He was convicted of five counts of illegal possession of child pornography on August 31, 2007, and he


The relationship was consensual, Palmieri says. “I hate to break anyone’s heart, but no, I didn’t hold her down and put a knife to her throat. That’s what people think. It’s a hard stigma to break free from.”

Hotel Duncan on Chapel Street, less than half a block from Yale’s campus, houses six sex offenders.

Brianne Bowen



**Title: The Hotel Duncan**
**Author: Susannah Shattuck**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19
January 2012
was released on January 28, 2010. 
“Yes,” he responds, and looks 
disappointed with himself. He tells me 
he was caught while in the process of 
moving residences—the pornographic 
pictures he’d found online blew out 
onto the driveway. The movers found 
them and turned him in. It’s good that 
it happened, he says, because it made 
him stop looking at child pornography 
earlier than he would have otherwise. He 
has nine years of probation left to go. 
According to the registry, he’s the same 
height as Palmieri. I can’t see it under his 
red-and-white flannel shirt, but I know 
he has a three-inch scar on his right 
shoulder.


Using the addresses on the registry, 
I attempted to contact the five other 
offenders, besides Palmieri and Boppert, 
currently living in the Hotel Duncan. 
The hotel’s receptionist told me that 
one had moved out about a year ago, 
though the change had not been updated 
online. Another, the only one living at 
the hotel with a federal conviction, had 
been recently changed on the registry to 
“non-compliant”, meaning he had not 
checked in with probation for more than 
three months. He did not respond to 
my letter or calls. Three declined to be 
interviewed. 


The last sex offender, James Szelest, 
38, said at first that he would only talk 
to me on the record if I omitted the 
hotel’s name and address. If people read 
my article and found out there were sex 
offenders living there, customers might 
stop staying at the Duncan. If enough 
people were turned away, he explained, 
the hotel might go out of business.


This put me in a difficult position. 
On the one hand, Szelest’s address was 
public information, easily accessible with 
a few quick online searches, and I could 
not omit it from the article. But on the 
other hand, he had a good point—my 
article could deter potential clients, put 
the hotel out of business and send him, 
along with the others, to a homeless 
shelter.


The 
state’s 
probation 
system 
essentially forced the offenders to 
aggregate in one place. And not just 
any place, but a hotel on a busy street 
right next to an affluent university, sure 
to garner attention. In publicizing this 
information, the state registry, a tool 
meant to ensure community safety, 
could actually be responsible for putting 
them all on the street. The overall system 
seemed inherently faulty, dangerous and 
unfair, for the sex offenders and for the 
communities where they live.


Two years after Timmendequas 
raped and killed seven-year-old 
Megan Kanka, President Bill Clinton 
signed Megan’s Law, requiring each 
state to register sex offenders and to 
publish personal information about 
them. As long as these two basic national 
requirements are met, each state has 
authority over its own version of the 
registry. It is more recent legislation, 
passed in 2006, that requires registries 
to categorize offenders by the level of 
risk they pose, but Connecticut has 
postponed updating its registry for 
budgetary reasons.


It is a problem that Connecticut’s 
current registry does not provide much 
information that could help viewers 
understand the level of risk that individual 
offenders pose, said Mike Lawlor, a 
former state representative and now the 
state’s undersecretary for criminal justice 
and planning. On December 5, there 
were 564 sex offenders in 449 locations 
within five miles of my zip code, 435 
offenders in New Haven, and seven 
in the Hotel Duncan, according to the 
registry. It gives physical information, 
conviction and release dates, addresses, 
and the degree of sexual assault for each 
individual, but not, for example, whether 
the individual has assaulted males or 
females, adults or kids, strangers or 
acquaintances. 


The state has a system to determine 
whether sex offenders pose high, 
medium, or low risks of recidivism 
and harm to the community, but the 
information is used exclusively by 
probation and parole officers and is not 
even publicized on the registry, Lawlor 
said. He also, controversially, argues that 
some low-risk offenders should not be 
on the registry at all, including some who 
were convicted for statutory rape. 
“For example, a high school senior 
who takes a high school freshman to 
prom. The classic case where the parents 
call the police. O.K., that’s what the law 
says, but it doesn’t necessarily mean that 
the guy who had sexual relations with 
this girl is a high-risk pedophile,” he 
said. Ideally, the state would establish 
a board responsible for determining 
risk specifically for publication on the 
registry.


Most people perusing the registry 
in its current form will assume, as I 
did, that all of the sex offenders living 
in the Duncan pose a high risk to 
the community. Most people would 
probably be afraid of what might 
happen at the Duncan. Lawlor said if 
the state added risk categories notifying 
the public whether or not there are high-
risk sex offenders living in the hotel, this 
clarification would help assuage these 
fears. But I’m not sure that solution 
alone would solve some of the major 
problems with the system.


A few weeks after our first phone 
conversation, Szelest called me back and 
left a message apologizing for his earlier 
resistance to being interviewed. 
“It’s hard enough being published 
already,” he said, referring to the registry. 
Unlike Palmieri, who will only be on the 
registry for a total of ten years, a standard 
amount of time for sex offenders, Szelest 
said he will be on it for life, because of 
the court ruling on his case. 


He was worried about losing his 
home at the Duncan if I published 
the story, he said, but decided he 
wanted to “get his side out.” He was 
arrested for the possession of child 
pornography, according to the registry 
and corresponding court records. He 
said he turned himself in to the police 
after his wife found the photos on his 
computer.


Szelest said he “disgraced” his 
country by his actions. He is an Army 
veteran and has been threatened by his 
neighbors in the Duncan and by other 
veterans. Although an expanded registry 
would help the public determine the risk 

--- Page 20 ---

20
The New Journal
offenders pose to those around them, 
Szelest added in a later interview, he 
is put at risk by the fact that his legal 
status is public. More information is not 
necessarily better for his safety.


Meanwhile, 
recent 
research 
questions whether the registries really 
increase community safety across the 
nation, said Randall Wallace, program 
director of the Center for Treatment of 
Problem Sexual Behavior at nonprofit 
The Connection. The organization 
oversees treatment for all offenders in 
the state of Connecticut and will oversee 
the treatment facility in Montville once 
it opens.  Although Wallace said the 
most effective registry would categorize 
offenders by risk level, he added that 
research shows no significant correlation 
with registries and reduction of risk of 
recidivism for the offender. In fact, 
some experts say, registries can decrease 
community safety by causing members 
of the public to focus on offenders 
who are strangers to them. Most victims 
of sexual assault, however, know their 
assailants. In relying on the registries for 
information, the public may be ignoring 
threats from people who are closer to 
them.


Why did this ineffective system 
develop? 
Possibly 
because 
early research on sex offenders made 
conclusions based primarily on studies 
on high-risk sex offenders, instead of 
distinguishing them from offenders 
who did not pose a high risk of harm 
to the community, according to David 
D’Amora, an academic expert on 
sex offense at the Council of State 
Governments Justice Center. 


The way academics view sex offense 
today is very different from the way 
they thought about sex offenders a few 
decades ago. Early studies focused only 
on the highest-risk offenders, suggesting 
that sex offenders were drastically 
different from other criminals, D’Amora 
said. Sex offense was treated like an 
incurable behavioral problem that could 
only be managed, such as substance 
abuse, instead of like a curable disease.


“The person is responsible for 
their behavior and needs to be held 
accountable, but that got turned into, 
‘Oh my goodness, they can’t ever 
change,’” D’Amora said. “We went 
too far in trying to think about it.” 
Academics reached conclusions about 
basic characterizations of sex offenders 
that were inconsistent with the reality of 
the situation.


But Wallace said he “adamantly” 
disagreed with the idea that some 
offenders can be cured, adding that 
the reality was more nuanced. Many 
sex offenders have specific incurable 
problems closely related to their sexual 
crimes, such as anger management 
and alcoholism. During the treatment 
process after incarceration, Wallace 
said, the state system determines which 
problems are linked with the offenders’ 
crimes and then creates a therapeutic 
plan to manage them long-term. But 
both agreed that there was a population 
of offenders at low risk for recidivism 
who should be cycled out of the system 
as soon as possible.


Research shows that only a small 
minority of sex offenders recidivate 
and that the majority who do actually 
commit non-sexual crimes correlated 
with factors such as lack of employment 
and 
housing, 
D’Amora 
explained. 
So Szelest’s worst nightmare, being 
kicked out of his home at the Duncan, 
could mean trouble for the rest of the 
community as well, since many of the 
offenders in the Duncan aggregation 
would become homeless.


Indeed, there is a group of sex 
offenders more dangerous than the 
rest, whose crimes are symptoms of 
incurable mental problems. The issue 
is that many laws in states across the 
country have been developed based 
on this small subsection, instead of 
based on empirical studies of the larger 
population, D’Amora said.


“In fact, when we over-respond to 
low-risk offenders, we actually increase 
their failure rate, which does not increase 
community safety,” he said. This 
over-response could deprive low-risk 
offenders of stable housing and jobs, 
making it more likely that they will fail 
to integrate completely into society. Sex 
offenders living in unstable situations are 
more likely to commit crimes that may 
have nothing to do with their original 
offenses, endangering the community.


There is a new trend at the federal 
and state levels toward developing 
policies that are based more on what 
the evidence says works, instead of on 
a “knee-jerk response,” D’Amora said. 
It’s important for low-risk offenders to 
be able to develop appropriate skills, 
behaviors, and relationships in order 
to properly reintegrate into society and 
avoid recidivism.


Boppert and Szelest both lost their 
marriages to their mistakes, and 
both live alone with only minimal contact 
with their families and former friends. 
Palmieri is convinced that the system is 
attempting to ruin his relationship with 
his boyfriend, Sucre Romero, 21, whom 
he met after being released from prison 
and coming out as bisexual. 


Romero is a drag queen performer 
at York Street Café and Palmieri often 
went to his shows to help out backstage. 
But last spring, Palmieri was assigned a 
new probation officer who banned him 
from attending, saying it was sexually 
stimulating and therefore inadvisable. 
When Palmieri complained to the 
Commission on Human Rights and 
Opportunities, he claimed his probation 
officer changed her reasoning for the 
restriction, instead saying it was justified 

--- Page 21 ---

21
CHAPEL STREET
YORK STREET
ELM STREET
HIGH STREET
PARK STREET
COLLEGE STREET
WALL STREET
GROVE STREET
TEMPLE STREET
CROWN STREET
EDGEWOOD AVENUE
BROADWAY



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Andy Watson, Bullstockmedia.com**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22
The New Journal
Andy Watson, Bullstockmedia.com
by the presence of alcohol at Romero’s 
performances. She put a GPS tracking 
device on his ankle to prevent him 
from going, and then several days later 
she wrote up a warrant that said he had 
violated his probation. Palmieri, who 
spent twenty-two days in prison because 
of the warrant, said there was no basis 
for it. He said the probation officer 
had falsely accused him of possessing 
pornographic videos of his boyfriend 
performing in the shows. Palmieri added 
he was fired from his job as a bellhop at 
Hotel Duncan because he had to miss 
work while in prison.

“The twenty-two days I spent in 
prison when she violated me, twenty-
two days away from [Romero]—I was 
a basket case,” he said. “And they say 
they want us to have healthy, 
consenting 
relationships.” 

He is now involved in a court 
case related to the incident 
and was the subject of a June 
30 article in the New Haven 
Register. In that article, he 
was quoted as saying, “You 
can’t keep me from getting 
sexually aroused…Be happy, 
I’m getting sexually aroused 
by adults.”

In 
early 
November, 
Romero tagged along during 
one of my interviews with 
Palmieri at the top level of 
the store Gourmet Heaven. 
There were a few other tables occupied, 
but Palmieri seemed less worried this 
time about being overheard. 
It was easy to see the tension in 
their relationship. Romero lives in New 
York, and Palmieri isn’t allowed to leave 
the state without checking in with his 
probation officer in advance. Sometimes 
Romero makes plans for long-distance 
trips with his friends, and both in the 
couple are disappointed when Palmieri 
cannot get permission to go in time. The 
relationship confused me—I’m less than 
a year younger than Romero and getting 
past a potential partner’s sexual assault 
charge would be difficult for me. I asked 
Romero what his reaction was when 
Palmieri first told him about his legal 
status.

“It was unexpected,” he said, when 
Palmieri revealed the information to 
him after a few weeks of dating. But by 
that time, he had already gotten to know 
his boyfriend and realized that he was 
a good person. That made it easier to 
forgive his mistakes, Romero said.

Not everyone in Palmieri’s life 
has been as understanding. One of his 
probation officers once told him that his 
relationship with Romero was unhealthy, 
because he said Romero looked like a 
14-year-old. One of Romero’s friends 
told Romero he would rather date a 
murderer than a sex offender. Comments 
like this upset Palmieri—people make 
assumptions about him because of his 
charge, before they know anything else 
about what he did or who he is.

He once read an article in a local 
paper interviewing a man released from 
prison after serving more than twenty 
years for killing his wife “in a crime of 
passion.” Palmieri says the article praises 
the man for starting his own business 
and turning his life around after being 
released.

“Never in anybody’s lifetime will we 
see an article like that about someone 
with a sex offense…I can’t be around 
minors, but does this guy have any 
restrictions about getting married again? 
It’s ridiculous,” he says.  

The stigma also harms the people 
who were victims of the original sexual 
assault crimes, said Tina Greaves, director 
of victim advocacy at Connecticut 
Sexual Assault Crisis Services. Victim 
advocates are involved in the probation 
process after a sex offender is released 
from jail. Their job is to make sure the 
victim’s perspective is represented in 
the decisions made about where the 
offenders can live and work. A large 
percentage of sex offenders know their 
victims, so if an offender were to commit 
another sexual crime, it would probably 
involve someone they already know. 
Offenders that are better integrated into 
society after incarceration are less likely 
to commit another crime, so it is safer 
for the victim if the offender has a more 
stable life. 

Last winter, before I 
had even met Palmieri 
or the other offenders, I 
visited the Duncan to talk 
with the hotel’s manager, 
Richard Longo. I told him 
what the interview would 
be about before I got there, 
but he seemed shocked and 
defensive when I brought up 
the topic in person. 
Longo said he hadn’t 
been 
aware 
that 
there 
were, at the time, nine sex 
offenders living in the hotel, 
adding that he didn’t “keep 
tabs on it.” This seemed 
unlikely to me, especially 
since at the time Palmieri was also 
employed there as a bellhop. Longo said 
he had no idea whether the hotel’s other 
patrons were aware of the fact, unless 
“they are savvy with a computer” and he 
refused to comment on whether patrons 
should be told about their offending 
neighbors when moving in. I tried to get 
him to elaborate, but he effectively sent 
me packing. 

I called Longo again this fall, 
equipped with notes from my research 
and interviews. But he again refused to 
comment, even when I informed him 
I would publish the article either way. 
I understand why he was defensive. He 
probably felt as though I was threatening 
the hotel’s future, although he is doing 
Research shows that only a small 
minority of sex offenders recidivate 
and that the majority who do 
actually commit non-sexual crimes 
correlated with factors such as lack 
of employment and housing.


23
January 2012
the community a service by taking in the 
sex offenders, whether or not that is his 
intention.

One of the offenders living at the 
Duncan is Joseph Dabrow, who is non-
compliant. The registry indicates that 
Dabrow is guilty of three counts of 
sexual assault in the fourth degree, or 
nonconsensual sexual contact including 
rape. There were no more details about 
the crime. Though he was listed as a 
federal offender, his charge in federal 
court was not identified. But after a 
quick Internet search, I found an article 
in The New York Times from January 27, 
1999, which revealed more detail: As a 
Boy Scout troop leader, Dabrow was 
accused of sexually abusing some of his 
scouts between the ages of 12 and 15, 
groping several and exposing himself to 
others. The federal charge was for illegal 
possession of pornography. He pled 
guilty to the federal charge and asked the 
judge to give him a maximum sentence 
in order to qualify for a sex offender 
treatment program at a federal prison in 
North Carolina, according to the article. 
The law aims to target offenders 
who commit crimes such as Dabrow, 
but offenders who have committed 
nonviolent crimes seem to be getting 
caught in the legal net. I lack the 
information and expertise necessary to 
try to predict whether Palmieri, Boppert, 
and Szelest will commit crimes in the 
future. The state’s new regulations 
promise to make the determination of 
risk easier for people like me, but the 
next step is for the state to legislate 
differently based on those categories. 
Hotel Duncan is striking, not 
necessarily as an example of an 
aggregation, but as an example of a 
place willing to house people who have 
been highly stigmatized in the public eye. 
Driving sex offenders into homelessness 
and into the desperate situations that 
often lead to crime seems dangerous, for 
them and for us. Low-risk offenders with 
homes, jobs, and healthy relationships, 
those who are successfully integrated 
into society, are less likely to resort to 
actions that make our communities 
unsafe. It is a question of pragmatism, 
not forgiveness. The important goal is 
to improve our society by lifting its most 
marginalized members.

Szelest, Boppert and Palmieri agreed 
to talk to me because they are each 
forced to remain at the lowest points in 
their lives. They are constantly looking 
for something else to help them pursue 
normal lives again, to persuade those 
around them that they deserve more. 
Szelest—nicknamed Turtle because 
of his weak chin and broad shoulders—
hardly leaves the Duncan. He was 
abused by his adoptive father as a child 
and developed post-traumatic stress 
disorder, only exacerbated by his time 
in the army and the harassment he has 
faced since prison. He’s on full disability 
pay and sees a clinician on a regular 
basis, often visiting the Veterans Affairs 
hospital in West Haven. Ironically, 
Szelest graduated from paralegal school 
before he was charged and said he gave 
out a lot of legal advice in prison, while 
also researching law on his own time. He 
wants to move on, but he doesn’t know 
how. He’s left with remnants of a family, 
remnants of a life.

“I had plenty before but I don’t 
have any of it now, because I’m not sure 
what to do,” he says. 

Boppert, retired, seems like he has 
the easiest lifestyle compared to the 
other two offenders. He doesn’t have 
to worry about money or employment. 
He is working on finishing his treatment 
program, and although he is near its end, 
he says it could take two or more years 
to finish, depending on his probation 
officer. 

Besides his program, he goes to 
church and does his “Bible stuff” in 
addition to reading and watching a lot 
of television shows. He takes things day 
by day, he says, though sometimes he 
doesn’t feel like a “normal person.”

“Sometimes I cry at night,” he says. 
“That’s how bad it is.”

Palmieri is being evicted from the 
hotel—after losing his job as a bellhop 
there, he won an unemployment hearing 
in October, allowing him to collect 
further compensation from the hotel. 
He said the eviction is probably due 
to that situation. I wanted to hear the 
hotel’s point of view on the dispute, but 
Longo was unwilling to speak with me.  

Palmieri is not sure when he has 
to move out or where he will end up 
living, but he seems resigned to the 
unpredictability of his life.  He is still 
searching for jobs, and he has only 
found two temporary landscaping jobs 
in the last few months. 

Surprisingly, when I last speak with 
Palmieri, he seems less anxious than he’s 
been in past conversations. He says he 
tries to get out of the Duncan as much 
as possible by spending time with his 
boyfriend and with his family. He’s angry 
at a public that deems him perpetually 
guilty and a system that seems to enforce 
this judgment. At the same time, he 
desperately wants to rejoin society. 

“How much more of nothing can I 
have?” he asks. 

The 
state 
probation 
system 
aggregated him with other sex offenders 
in a hotel in a busy street in the city of 
New Haven. This factor, combined with 
his lack of employment, lack of stable 
income and the tension on his most 
meaningful relationship, prevents him 
from living a normal life. And no one 
seems to be helping him. National laws 
and public opinion treat him the same 
as they would a dangerous rapist—a 
different kind of aggregation—making 
it more likely that he’ll end up on the 
street. The main threat to the community 
of Yale University and downtown New 
Haven is not people like Palmieri, but a 
system that makes them more likely to 
commit crime.

Meanwhile, across the country, 
families are sleeping a little more soundly.
TNJ
Aliyya Swaby is a junior in 
Pierson College and a Managing 
Editor of The New Journal.


**Author: Cindy Ok Andrew Sotiriou**
**Page number(s): 24**

24
T
he year is 1900, and Ida Bauer 
cannot speak today. She feels like 
she is choking on air. Ida has had 
difficulty breathing and an inability to 
speak for some time now, and her father 
is concerned. 

Ida is 18 years old. She lives with 
her parents and her brother, who is a 
year and a half her senior. Her father 
was treated for a paralytic attack four 
years ago, but nothing in her family’s 
medical history explains Ida’s symptoms. 
There is no neurological explanation for 
loss of voice or problems breathing, or 
for her periodic migraines or fainting 
spells. Yet Ida has sporadically suffered 
variations of some of these symptoms 
since age eight. Her father decides to 
forgo the visits to more conventional 
physicians and has brought Ida straight 
to Dr. Sigmund Freud, the inventor of 
psychoanalysis.

Ida’s case is a typical example of Dr. 
Freud’s early analysis, so typical that he 
finds Ida, and her case, utterly unexciting.

In her conversations with Freud, 
Ida reveals that she has a recurring 
dream. Ida’s father awakens her: The 
Theory of Mind
The Western New England 
Institute for Psychoanalysis is a 
bastion for often-maligned 
Freudian practices in New Haven.



**A Psychoanalyst's Couch: Exploring the Enduring Legacy of Freud**
**Author: Andrew Sotiriou**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Freud’s wilder theories have been 
discredited again and again, and 
the story of how the influence of 
psychoanalysis has waned since his time 
is a familiar one. Still, there are those 
who are drawn, for whatever reasons, to 
the discipline he established, including a 
sizable community of psychoanalysts in 
New Haven.


Marshal Mandelkern is a member 
of that community. Before his training as 
a psychoanalyst, he remembers writing a 
letter he was ambivalent about mailing. 
As he asked himself whether he should 
mail it, he decided to look up the address 
just in case. He searched his entire desk 
drawer, where he always kept his address 
book, but couldn’t find the book, and 
couldn’t mail the letter. He set the letter 
aside. A week later, he was reaching for 
his stapler, and saw his address book 
sitting on top of the desk drawer, where 
it had always been.  
“I had been looking for it, but 
couldn’t see it,” he says. “Not because 
I was blind, or because it was dark, but 
because psychologically, I created this 
blind spot. A conflict I was having could 
unconsciously emerge as a physical 
symptom like this, of not being able to 
see something.” 


This incident is an example of 
a parapraxis, the clinical term for a 
“Freudian slip,” and it prompted 
Mandelkern to apply to the Western New 
England Institute for Psychoanalysis. 
Mandelkern wanted to understand 
the levels of the mind beneath his 
consciousness.


	 The main floor of the institute’s 
building on Bradley Avenue has four 
classrooms, for classes of ten or fifteen 
people (one classroom doubling as a 
kitchen) and a library. Comprehensive 
psychoanalytic libraries are infamously 
difficult to maintain, and with Yale’s 
many libraries down the street, Western 
New England’s collection of books and 
journals is treated more like a reading 
room. Training includes five years of 
courses in these classrooms, and usually 
requires eight to ten years altogether.   


To graduate from the institute, 
students 
must 
complete 
a 
major 
paper and submit to psychoanalysis 
themselves. Training at Western New 
England is in orthodox or classical 
Freudian psychoanalysis, which differs 
from more conventional psychotherapy 
in that analysis requires more weekly 
sessions in which doctors participate 
more actively. This means four or five 
one-hour appointments a week, and 
it means time, money, and emotional 
commitment that most people cannot 
afford. 


Freud first developed orthodox 
psychoanalysis, which was governed 
by a few major thinkers for decades. 
Eventually, devotion to the original 
model declined, and the psychoanalytic 
umbrella opened—to shelter a new 
generation, conflict within the field, and 
divisions that couldn’t have existed in 
1900.


Most 
of 
the 
forty 
trained 
psychoanalysts at Western New England 
spend a minority of their time performing 
orthodox psychoanalysis. Mandelkern 
spends two thirds of his time practicing 
general psychiatry at St. Raphael’s 
Hospital, where his patients generally 
have obvious psychiatric disorders, and 
a third of it at his own private practice, 
where patients usually come in unhappy 
for 
various 
reasons. 
Mandelkern’s 
time at his private practice is not spent 
practicing orthodox psychoanalysis. His 
patients come in once or twice a week, 
not four or five times.


Yet few fields are so dominated by 
one founding figure. There are and will 
always be reading groups, courses, and 
seminars devoted solely to Freud at 
Western New England.


In their sessions, Freud “uses the 
couch” for Ida. Using the couch 
means two things for the patient. She 
lies down—relaxing her body while 
free associating—and, as the doctor sits 
behind the couch, she does not have to 
see his reactions to her associations. Nor 
must the doctor control his face as he 
listens. They are both further freed from 
social conventions, cues, and anxieties. 


Since beginning treatment, Ida has 
experienced coughing attacks lasting 
three to five weeks, attacks so severe she 
has lost her voice several times, slowing 
down the unraveling of her story. Yet 
slowly but surely it does unravel: the 
powerful attachment to her father; his 
recovery from tuberculosis in a town 
away from home; the couple (“Herr K.” 
and “Frau K.”) he meets and grows close 
to while there; Ida’s many encounters 
with the K. family children as their 
babysitter; Herr K.’s sexual advances 
onto Ida; Ida’s father’s close friendship 
and possible long-term love affair with 
Frau K. despite his impotence; Herr K.’s 
and Ida’s father’s insistence that she had 
imagined the advances. 


	 Ida had the dream about the fire 
three nights in a row while staying at the 
lake where Herr and Frau K. live after 
Herr K. kissed her unexpectedly. Freud 
considers aloud facts relating to the 
dream, for example that Herr K. once 
gave a jewel case to Ida as a gift and that 
“jewel case” is slang for female genitals. 
He interprets the dream as Ida’s desire 
to protect her “jewel case” and her 
conviction that if anything happened, 
her father would be to blame. The dream 
expresses all of these unconscious 
feelings in the opposite, meaning Ida 
has repressed a sexual attraction to Herr 
K. He notes that she loses her voice for 
the same amount of time that Herr K. is 
away, and in a poetic sweep Freud solves 
the case: because speech has no meaning 
when the person she loves is not there 
to hear it, her loss of voice is a small 
demonstration of her repressed desire 
for Herr K.


choice 
to 
limit 
orthodox analysis in his practice 
is modern, as is his prescription of 
medication as treatment. For many 
patients, drugs are more reliable and 
cost-effective. Today, more than one in 
ten Americans over the age of twelve 
is on an anti-depressant. Use has 
quadrupled in twenty-five years.


During and after the Second World 
War, psychoanalysis enjoyed a heyday 
that lasted until the 1960s. In those 
years, there was nowhere else to turn, 
and psychoanalysis seemed to be able to 
treat almost anything. “Seem” was the 
crucial word. Starting in the 1970s, new 
disciplines of medicine developed and 
began to compete with psychoanalysis, 
and the field was slowly marginalized. 
There was no return to the golden age: 
doctors, patients, and skeptics continue 
to refer to the decline of psychoanalysis.


Talking was already going out 
of style by the 1960s, when effective 
medications for depression, anxiety, 
and various psychotic disorders were 
designed. In those booming postwar 
years, sessions became less frequent, 
patients’ stays in analysis became shorter, 
and analysts began to interrupt patients 
more freely, deliberately influencing 
progress instead of acting as a blank 
vessel. As doctors engaged more with 
patients, patients were talking less.


Phillips, however, thinks Western 
New England stands today on the 
cusp of a resurgence of interest in 
psychoanalysis, both in the general 
public and in the academy. Just as lofty 
notions of the power of psychoanalysis 
were deflated following its golden age, 
so the sexiness of biological psychiatry 
is fading, and views of these medications 
are becoming more realistic. 


“The be-all end-all antidepressent 
medications that they thought would 
solve everything, don’t, and what’s more 
is they have a lot of side effects,” said 
Phillips, who uses medications with his 
own patients.  


Dr. 
Carole 
Goldberg 
agrees 
that there will always be a place for 
psychoanalysis despite the commitment 
of time and money it requires. Also 
a member of Western New England, 
Goldberg serves as the director of 
the Sexual Harassment and Assault 
Response and Education Center at Yale 
and practices sex counseling at Yale’s 
Mental Health & Counseling and in her 
private practice.


Goldberg believes there is a 
movement back toward asking “how we 
explore our inner world in a meaningful 
way,” rather than medicating the ups and 
downs of emotions. She sees a parallel 
in the medicalization of sex therapy with 
the invention of medications like Viagra 
and Cialis to treat erectile dysfunction. 
 “They helped with these disorders, 
and they were terrific. But in medicating 
these issues, we lose the opportunity 
to talk to one another. And the most 
intimate thing you do with another 
person is to talk to them,” she said. 


The combination of medication and 
psychotherapy works better than either 
one alone, and Goldberg attributes the 
allure of psychoanalysis to the self-
understanding it can provide, something 
medication cannot offer.


Mandelkern said that psychoanalytic 
ideas 
and 
insights 
recently 
have 
been considered more useful, and in 
more ways. He predicts an organic 
incorporation of newer fields into the 
psychoanalysis of the future.  


“It’ll be a younger generation, 
younger than me, that takes what’s good 
out of psychoanalysis, that takes what’s 
good from cognitive science, from 
various cognitive behavioral therapies, 
from a variety of other interventions, 
and creates new paths forward, without 
feeling like they have to pay undue 
homage to the past. Which has been a 
big factor for psychoanalysis, tracing 
everything back to Freud.”


Psychoanalysis is still emerging from 
underneath the Freudian penumbra, 
according to Mandelkern—and the 
process has lasted for twenty or thirty 
years. “Just now the field is willing to 
move on and say, ‘Yes, Freud was a great 
thinker, with great insights, and great 
creativity, but he had certain limitations 
and we have to move on,’ ” he says.


Mandelkern owns a pair of slippers 
bearing a cartoon of Freud’s face—
Freudian slippers.


Whether she is aware of it or not, 
so much depends on Ida’s “jewel 
case.” Her emotions and her body are 
thoroughly intertwined.


Ida wakes up from her dreams 
smelling smoke. Freud understands the 
odor as a clear sign that Ida is conflating 
her father, Herr K., and the doctor 
himself—all three smokers in her life, all 
men toward whom he believes she has 
felt sexually. This is an instance, then, of 
transference, a redirection of her sexual 
feelings from Herr K. to Freud himself.  


As 
it 
was 
in 
Freud’s 
time, 
psychoanalysis is as much about 
the doctor as it is about the patient. In 
Mandelkern’s private practice, though 
he is more active than a typical therapist 
might be, he usually doesn’t use the 
couch. He decided about ten years ago 
that having the patient on the couch was 
too impersonal for him, and he now sees 
patients sitting up. 
“I was suffering from a lack of 
interaction, a lack of contact,” he says.


It is a small example. Freud wrote in 
a paper called “Analysis Terminable and 
Interminable” that people never finish 
analysis, that they leave it and return 
to it in all their lives. No patient of 
psychoanalysis—and certainly no doctor 
of psychoanalysis—is ever “fixed” by, 
or finishes with, analysis. Most doctors 
feel their own psychoanalysis was the 
most important part of their training—
more important than the reading or the 
classes. Before they can be doctors, they 
must be patients.


At some point it becomes a 
technical question whether analysts are 
also undergoing analysis, because the 
way they think and feel about their lives 
is so informed by their fundamental 
quest to gain access to unconscious 
minds, including their own. To fully 
empathize with their patients, doctors 
must understand their own minds 
as deeply and as richly as possible, 
unconscious warts and all. They must 
be not only able to tolerate pain, anxiety, 
stress, despair, but also deeply willing to 
face it—in themselves and in others.


It’s a lonely profession. “You’re 
not hearing thousands of people at a 
time, and you’re not writing stuff that 
changes the lives of millions of people,” 
Mandelkern says. “You’re talking to one 
individual at a time, and you have to be 
willing to accept that.” Institutionalized 
professional interactions are necessary 
breaks from the day-in and day-out 
aloneness of a psychoanalyst’s office. 
Doctors don’t usually share ideas about 
their work with their patients, especially 
not psychoanalysts, and they need 
to gather occasionally with similarly 
minded shrinks to let it all out. Western 
New England has about forty members, 
a relatively tightly knit and socially 
agreeable group. Each doctor in the 
group knows most of the others, likes 
them, and gets along with the group.


When analysts get together, there 
is what Kirsten Dahl, the director 
of psychoanalysis for children and 
adolescents at Western New England, 
calls “a terrific social awkwardness.” 
“What is it about analysts?” asked a 
friend of Dahl’s who came with her to a 
conference. “All they do is walk around 
looking at the floor and talking about the 
weather.”


These analysts come to Western 
New 
England 
as 
full-fledged 
psychiatrists, psychologists, and clinical 
social workers before embarking on the 
process of becoming a psychoanalyst. 
The training necessarily takes place after 
all other training. It does not guarantee 
by any means a raise in income. The 
process is notoriously long and difficult. 
Dahl posed the question: Why in the world 
would anybody ever agree to do this? 
The 
short 
answer: 
analysis 
has affected them personally and 
intensely. Most go in primarily wanting 
psychoanalysis for themselves and, 
after years of talking about their own 
difficulties and sufferings for five hours 
a week, leave wanting to practice it for 
others. The necessarily painful, painfully 
necessary nature of psychoanalysis 
will generate intellectual interest in the 
field, not the other way around, Phillips 
said. For Mandelkern, personal and 
intellectual interest came together the 
day he recognized the blind spot he 
created for himself where his address 
book sat on his desk.


Self-discovery 
at 
core of Mandelkern’s journey into 
psychoanalysis, and it is at the core of 
psychoanalysis itself. Patients are urged 
to talk about things they are likely to 
discuss with no one else, to give their 
analysts privileged access to their 
minds. Above all, though, it is their own 
unconscious to which analysts seek a 
special kind of access. As Phillips puts it, 
every interpretation that an analyst makes 
begins with self-analysis.


TNJ
Cindy Ok is a sophomore in 
Pierson College.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Nora Caplan-Bricker**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Adam King ’88 looks
at Atwater Street, he sees
wealth. He sees it in the
overgrown backyards that could become
gardens, in the rundown houses whose
extra rooms could become common
spaces, and in the out-of-work residents
whose skills could transform the
neighborhood.

Atwater is in Fair Haven, one
of the poorest areas of New Haven,
Connecticut.
King
was
originally
attracted to this neighborhood, which
lies to the east of the city center, across
the Mill River from more affluent
areas, because it is inexpensive, and he
purchased two houses here in foreclosure
sales last spring. As he describes it, he
drove by a for-sale sign on the street and
made a spur-of-the-moment decision.
“I just said on a whim, ‘I’m going to do
this!’ he said. “ ‘I’m going to start the
process, start moving my life toward
where I want it to head.’ ”

Since then, things have happened
quickly, King said. King, 45, and his
roommates Adam Waschall and Bill
Richo, both in their late twenties, moved
into one of the houses and encouraged
a few friends to invest in neighboring
properties.
Recently,
acquaintances
have also taken both of the unoccupied
apartments in King’s second house.
All the members of the group met
through a shared interest in alternative,
sustainable lifestyles. They currently own
four houses on the street and are looking
to expand. King, Waschall, and Richo
have dubbed the venture the Atwater
Resource Cooperative, or ARC, and they
have a long list of plans for improving
their own lives and those of the people
around them.

The first time I visited their house,
Waschall showed me the backyard,
every inch of which is crammed with
ambitious projects. There’s a chicken
coop full of sleek hens, a pile of materials
for construction on King’s second
house, a cluster of bright blue barrels
for collecting rain water to treat and
use, a compost heap, some solar panels,
and a stack of bins for building raised
garden plots—most of the soil in this
neighborhood is contaminated by lead
and unsuitable for growing food. ARC’s
members hope to someday raise much
of their own food in their backyards and
live as locally as possible.


When he isn’t studying alternative
lifestyles, King, who graduated from Yale
and has a Ph.D. from the University of
California, Los Angeles, is a professor of
computer science at Fairfield University.
He told me his work incorporates
cognitive science and metaphysics. His
enthusiasm for systems and ideas exerted
such a magnetic pull on his answers
to my questions that even the simplest
clarification launched him into a realm
of abstraction. He has a tall, wiry frame
and curly brown hair, and an energy that
always seems just barely contained. He
reminded me of the rabbi at my family’s
synagogue, who always brought social
issues into his sermons and could get
so lost in passionate exhortation that he
spoke for twice his allotted time, never
noticing the children sneaking out of
their seats to start eating the lunch laid
out in the rec hall.

King is at his most fervent when he
talks about money, which he believes is at
the root of all the world’s problems. He
told me modern currency is “everything
and nothing”: everything because people
spend their whole lives trying to obtain
it, and because it’s the glue that binds
together enormous global systems, and
nothing because it’s not what we actually
want—not food, shelter, education, or
leisure.

Driven by this belief, King has
been researching alternative currency
for the last six years. He and Waschall
run SHARE Haven, a timeshare bank
whose
members
accrue
“SHARE
hours” when they help each other with
home improvement, yard clean-up, and
other projects. They spend their hours
by calling on other bank participants to
work for them when they need a hand
around the house. On Atwater Street, as
at the timeshare bank, the plan is to make
less money and spend less money, to
move as far as possible outside a system
that King says has everyone working




**Title: Atwater Street**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
January 2012
more hours to have more money to buy 
more things. To this end, Waschall has 
already left his job as an accountant to 
focus on SHARE Haven and ARC, and 
Richo works only part-time as a librarian 
at Yale University.


When I first met King, I was skeptical 
of his sweeping claims about money, but 
I admired his conviction and his decision 
to test his vision in a neighborhood 
plagued by unemployment and crime. At 
Yale, students are told over and over that 
their youthful, hardheaded 
optimism is enough in itself 
to effect positive change. 
I’ve heard this from Teach 
For America recruiters, from 
Reach 
Out 
coordinators 
who plan service trips in the 
developing world, and from 
others who have a stake in 
the truth of the claim. Each 
time, I’m frustrated by the 
arrogance of the idea, but tempted by its 
hopefulness all the same. What if King, 
who so clearly believes in everything he 
is preaching, could prove it right?


King’s house, an unremarkable 
duplex with peeling paint, looks like 
any other on Atwater Street from the 
outside, but inside it is freshly painted 
and carpeted, tidy and warm with a bay 
window. Gesturing to the street outside 
the window, King and Waschall told 
me they imagine the neighborhood as 
a desert island. “If we all landed on an 
island, and we’re all skilled and there 
are some resources there but we have 
no money in our pockets, would we sit 
around saying ‘We have no money, so we 
can’t work with each other?’ ” Waschall 
asks. “No, we’re going to create a 
system and we’re going to start working 
together.” He said people on Atwater 
Street who are unemployed and have no 
money feel as if they can’t do anything 
to improve their circumstances. If they 
could take money out of the equation, 
they could see their own potential and 
that of their surroundings.  


K
ing didn’t move to Atwater to 
make a statement. He didn’t think 
much about the neighborhood at all. 
He just chose a place where he could 
buy an affordable house—his monthly 
mortgage payments on his two properties 
come to a total of $2,500—and now 
that he’s here, he’ll work with whoever 
is interested. He started this summer, 
holding a festival for local children and 
planting trees up and down the street 
with the help of the Urban Resources 
Initiative, a partner of the Yale School 
of Forestry and Environmental Studies. 
Longtime community organizers 
have welcomed King.  Lee Cruz, who 
lives and works in the same neighborhood 
as King and is the community outreach 
director of the nonprofit Community 
Foundation for Greater New Haven, is 
excited about ARC’s potential. He told 
me that, by putting time and energy into 
his house, King is helping everyone by 
contributing to the sense that Atwater 
Street is a good place to live, and by 
involving his neighbors in his projects, 
he is strengthening the local community.


The more time I spent with King, 
though, the more I wondered how 
much his presence was really helping 
his adopted community. King told me 
that the interactions between people on 
the street serve the role in his economic 
model that money does in most of 
America: they are the raw material with 
which everything is made. “Community 
is, again, everything and nothing,” he 
said. “Everything is going to come out 
of that—every content.” King earnestly 
believes that his ideas could help his new 
neighborhood, but the neighborhood is, 
first and foremost, the raw material for 
his vision.


Until recently, King lived in the East 
Rock area, which is heavily populated by 
Yale professors and graduate students. 
He said he likes that his new neighbors 
have more practical skills than his 
old ones, mentioning an out-of-work 
carpenter who might help Waschall 
renovate some of the ARC houses as an 
example.


“They have more resources in East 
Rock,” Waschall said when I asked if 
they ever considered starting a project 
like ARC there. He was sitting cross-
legged on an armchair with one of their 
two cats curled in his lap. “By resources, I 
mean they have the money 
to do things. So if, say, they 
wanted solar panels. Odds 
are they have more money 
in East Rock to do that.”


“I think here, we 
have more wealth. There, 
there’s more money,” King 
said confidently. “I mean, 
here, there are people who 
actually know how to do 
things and have time to do things. And 
it will actually mean something in their 
lives.” 


Though King is articulate and 
brimming with optimism, I came to 
think that he has a tendency to over-
simplify. His redefinition of “wealth” is 
one example. His statement that, since 
the economy is a construct, “nothing 
happened” during the Great Depression 
is another. His vision of the future is 
hyperbolic: he plans to be “off money” 
within a year, and predicts that the 
American dollar will have lost all value 
within five. 


King hasn’t tried to explain these 
far-reaching visions to his neighbors 
because he’s afraid of being seen as an 
authority figure and worried that the 
promise to “take people off money” 
could sound like a scam. His instincts 
about this are probably right, but I 
began to wonder if he could truly claim 
to include the Atwater Street residents 
in his project without doing them the 
courtesy of revealing his motives. I began 
to question whether, in a community 
so urgently in need of positive energy, 
King’s utopian fervor was quite the right 
kind. 
King plans to be “off money” 
within a year, and predicts that 
the American dollar will have 
lost all value within five.



---

**Title: Atwater Street Continued**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

32
The New Journal
living projects in New Haven, and they 
are interested in working with them once 
ARC is more firmly established. Several 
of ARC’s members had planned to buy 
houses in Green Haven before hearing 
about the new community on Atwater 
Street. 


Some New Haven residents have 
also grown interested in a new movement 
called Transition, which has influenced 
the members of ARC. Though not part 
of the cooperative housing movement, 
Transition embodies many of its values. 
Founded in the United Kingdom in 
2005 by Rob Hopkins, a professor of 
ecological design, it warns that fossil 
fuel depletion, climate change, and the 
failure of the world economy will soon 
render it impossible for humans to live 
the way we do. We should prepare for 
this inevitability, Transition proposes, by 
learning to live locally and rely on our 
neighbors so that our communities will 
be “resilient” when crisis strikes. 


Terry Halwes, a member of ARC 
who is in the process of renovating his 
new house on Atwater Street, has floated 
the idea of a New Haven Transition 
chapter. 


Though 
it 
never 
gained 
momentum, King said he hopes that 
Atwater will be a “Transition street.” 
When neighbors see the members of 
ARC raising their own food and sharing 
resources, they will want to join in, too, 
and when people from other parts of 
Fair Haven and New Haven see the 
principles of Transition succeeding, the 
ideas will spread.   


Transition 
lists 
racial 
and 
socioeconomic 
inclusiveness 
among 
its goals, but, predictably, it has been 
sprouting in towns where people bike to 
work and take their kids hiking on the 
weekends, where they’ve been preaching 
the social and ecological benefits of 
localization for years. There is already 
a registered initiative in the area of 
Western Massachusetts where I grew up, 
in a picturesque valley that 
is home to five colleges and 
universities, and that votes 
left on every issue.


W
hen I asked King if 
I could meet some 
of his neighbors, Dawn 
Chiaraluce and the couple 
Ken and Christine Voight 
were planning an errand to 
the pharmacy. It would be 
a good chance for me to 
talk to them, King said. Ken Voigt is the 
carpenter King hopes to recruit to help 
with many of ARC’s projects. Christine 
Voigt and her friend Chiaraluce have also 
been involved with ARC, volunteering to 
plant trees and helping out around King, 
Waschall, and Richo’s house, sometimes 
in exchange for cash. 


Chiaraluce came to pick me up at 
King’s house. She is middle-aged and 
looked tired and cold, with pale lips 
and circles under her eyes. When we 
reached the Voigts at the end of the 
block, I could tell that King’s request 
had inconvenienced his neighbors. “He’s 
rude,” Christine said in annoyance. “He’s 
in his own little mind.” Even wearing 
sweatpants and a sweatshirt with the 
hood up, she was attractive, with blond 
hair and a small, twinkling nose piercing. 
She lit a cigarette, hunching around the 
flame to protect it from the rain. Her 
voice was loud, with a smoker’s rasp.


They told me that King’s projects 
missed the point. “People need money,” 
they repeated over and over. Too 
many people in this neighborhood 
are struggling to keep up with their 
mortgages, they said, in danger of losing 
their homes. 


King’s attempts to barter also 
insulted them. Ken mentioned an article 
published about ARC in the New Haven 
Independent in July, which says that one 
T
he belief that people who approach 
life thoughtfully can figure out a 
better way to do things has always been a 
part of the American cultural landscape, 
but it is usually the purview of academics, 
intellectuals, and progressives. In 1843, 
Transcendentalist 
philosophers 
political reformers set a 
precedent for the communes 
of the 1960s. Charles Lane 
and Amos Bronson Alcott, 
whose daughter Louisa May 
Alcott penned the classic 
novel Little Women, founded 
Fruitlands, a small utopian 
commune where members 
attempted to grow their 
own food and raise their 
children collectively. King, a 
philosopher and academic, 
fits the mold.


King and his predecessors have in 
common not only the hope that it is 
possible to live by their ideals but also 
the freedom to try. They have education 
and resources to fall back on should 
their projects fail. Alcott struggled to 
make ends meet for most of his life, but 
his well-to-do family and friends were 
there to bail him out with loans when he 
could not feed his children. 


As in the past, communal living 
arrangements today appeal most to 
the young, the liberal, and the highly 
educated. In New Haven, the most 
active groups include a co-op house on 
Orange Street whose residents are all in 
their twenties and early thirties, around 
half enrolled in Yale graduate programs, 
and a small committee of older 
people who plan to build a cohousing 
community called Green Haven as soon 
as they purchase some land. The Green 
Haven group hopes that the houses in 
their neighborhood will cost around 
$250,000 each, with some smaller units 
possibly priced lower. The price of these 
homes—the buy-in to be part of Green 
Haven—is within reach for the members 
of the planning committee, most of 
whom are nearing or past retirement age 
in fields like nursing, book editing, and 
teaching. Waschall and King said they are 
aware of some of the other cooperative 



**Page number(s): 33**

33
of King’s neighbors mowed his lawn 
in exchange for a lunch of tofu and 
vegetables. Ken was that neighbor. He 
told me that he mowed the lawn as a 
favor to King and was offended by the 
idea that he did it for payment. “It makes 
it sound like I can’t feed myself,” he said. 
The blurred line between gift and 
transaction angered Christine as well. 
She told me she has given Chiaraluce 
financial assistance during a tough time 
“because she’s my friend, not the way he 
wants to do it.” The misunderstandings 
deflated me. King had violated an 
important social norm, but he had no 
idea.


Chiaraluce summed it up: “His 
heart is in the right place, but it’s never 
going to work.” 


Looking at the facts about Fair 
Haven, it’s hard to see King’s optimism 
as anything but irresponsible. In this 
part of the city, the median household 
income was recorded at $33,000 a year 
in the 2000 U.S. Census. According to 
the same census, the neighborhood’s 
residents are 42 percent Latino, and 
federal police raids in the neighborhood 
in 2007 found at least four households of 
undocumented immigrants. Fair Haven 
sees fairly routine prostitution and drug 
busts, and five women were arrested 
on prostitution charges in a sting this 
July. The area also suffers from violent 
crime. Eight of the fifty-five murders 
that have occurred in New Haven since 
the beginning of 2011 happened here, 
according to the New Haven Register. The 
challenges start young: New Haven’s 38 
percent public high school dropout rate 
means that many kids are wandering the 
streets by junior or senior year.  


In the pharmacy, it was clear that 
the Voigts and Chiaraluce needed to 
finish their errand and were tired of 
answering my questions. I watched a 
teenage African-American girl march up 
the aisle having an angry conversation on 
a cell phone, a child in a drenched parka 
trailing after her, while King’s neighbors 
wrote down their phone numbers and I 
apologized for catching them at a bad 
time. Back outside, the sky was dark gray, 
the houses sagged under the pelting rain, 
and the street was deserted. I biked back 
up Grand Street, away from Fair Haven 
and toward Yale, unable to escape the 
feeling that King’s optimism had nothing 
to offer, and neither did mine. 


H
ope is in short supply these 
days. Even among utopians, it 
seems to have dwindled. In fact, King 
told me that he doesn’t use the word 
“utopian” because it has become a 
pejorative 
associated 
with 
naïveté. 
Instead, contemporary cohousing and 
co-op residents use the milder phrase 
“intentional community.” They share 
a purpose, but they aren’t making any 
promises.


The 
utopian 
imagination 
is 
losing 
ground 
to 
the 
dystopian. 
Environmentalists shake their heads 
over inexplicable weather reports. The 
old bemoan the behavior of the young, 
who grow up with computers for 
playmates. The Transition movement 
thinks we can change for the better but 
says it can’t prevent the end of life as we 
know it.


My generation has grown up in this 
dystopian era. Like so many adults, King 
wanted me to explain why he sees so few 
young people involved in the movements 
that he thinks could save my generation 
from itself. “I’ve been very surprised, 
to tell you the truth, about younger 
people’s noninvolvement with this,” 
he told me. “It’s really disconcerting, 
actually. It seems like somehow they’ve 
become cynical but have also bought 
in.” He told me his students at Fairfield 
seem less apathetic than lost. While their 
professors still believe in the possibility 
of change, the young have no interest 
in revolution. “I don’t know what that’s 
about,” King said. “It’s probably a lot of 
fear. When I was growing up, there was a 
strong feeling that adults knew what they 
were doing. You don’t have that now.”


King is right, I think, that my 
generation is not so much apathetic as 
defeatist. We’ve seen over and over that 
it’s hard to opt out of the system, even 
if you see its flaws. In our eyes, even the 
most visionary movements have failed. 
Fruitlands shut down after seven months 
because its members hadn’t grown 
enough food to get through the winter. 
Dick Margulis, a member of Green 
Haven, told me about his experience 
living in communes, beginning in the 
1960s. “All of that works really well when 
you’re young and idealistic,” he said. 
“But human jealousies and arrangements 
creep into any arrangement that’s shared 
purse, and gradually, those situations 
tend to break down.”  


We’re well aware that if something 
hasn’t been fixed yet, it’s not because no 
one has tried. And if there’s one thing 
we’ve been taught, it’s that everything is 
connected, and when you tug on a string, 
you’re as likely to tighten the knot as to 
unravel it. 


King doesn’t deny that this mindset 
is rooted in reality. In fact, he expects 
that the economy, the environment, 
and the energy infrastructure will 
all collapse in the next decade. But 
he thinks these pressures, combined 
with the unprecedented fluidity of 
Internet communication, are creating 
a “consciousness shift” all over the 
world. He cited the Occupy Wall Street 
movement as a sign that people are 
starting to see the future differently. 
“I think we’re in a ten-year period of 
the biggest change that’s ever going 
to happen on this planet,” he told me, 
“and I really want to be a part of it.” 


King said he isn’t deterred by negative 
reactions from neighbors like the Voigts 
and Chiaraluce. He is planning to try 
to explain his ideas to them, but if 
that doesn’t work, their skepticism will 
become irrelevant when money as we 
know it ceases to exist. 


The end of the world is a classic 
part of the utopian vision. It clears the 
way so that humanity can start over and 
do things better this time around. Maybe 
I’m shortsighted, or maybe I’m just a 
pessimist, but I don’t think that all of 
our problems will be solved that easily. 
And if I’m right, then the residents of 
Atwater Street will continue to need 
money, not just for things they might 
be able to make themselves, but also 
for things they can’t, like mortgages and 
doctor’s bills. If people like the Voigts 



**Title: Fair Haven**
**Author: Nora Caplan-Bricker**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal
and Chiaraluce can’t step out of the 
system, people like King need to find a 
way to create hope inside of it.

Lee Cruz, who welcomed King into 
the neighborhood, has lived in Fair 
Haven for almost six years and worked 
here far longer than King. In his eyes, it’s 
a magical place. He took me on a tour 
of the neighborhood on a brilliantly 
sunny day in late October, beginning by 
the Quinnipiac River, three blocks east 
of Atwater Street. “Just look at this,” he 
said. The stone-and-clapboard houses 
that dotted the banks were painted in 
cheery pastels. Cruz told me they used 
to belong to ship captains and first mates 
when this was a thriving harbor town. 
The water was a surprisingly rich blue 
against the bright fall foliage, or, when 
the sun hit it, a dazzling pane of light. 
“It’s a little paradise,” Cruz said.


A few minutes into the tour, it was 
clear that Cruz knows everything about 
Fair Haven. He first got involved here 
over a decade ago, through his work with 
the Community Foundation for Greater 
New Haven, and now he says he’ll never 
move anywhere else. “I’m going to be 
taken out of this neighborhood boots 
first,” he joked. He can tell you Fair 
Haven’s role in every aspect of American 
history from the maritime economy to 
the Civil War. 


He recounts the neighborhood’s 
past as if it were a fairy tale. He told me 
that the British saw creatures swimming 
in the water when they sailed up the river 
in the 1600s, and, unable to recognize 
them, decided they were sea monsters. 
The animals turned out to be seals, but 
the town kept the name “Dragon” until 
1824.


Cruz isn’t an idealist. He grew up 
partly in New York City and partly in 
a low-income housing project, and he 
told me that too many of his friends 
from childhood are dead, in jail, or 
raising families in the same abject 
poverty into which they themselves 
were born. He knows how bad life in a 
bad neighborhood can be, but he’s seen 
enough positive change in Fair Haven to 
justify his optimism.


“In a neighborhood like this, it’s 
not that bad things don’t happen. It’s 
that the bad things that happen are not 
the center of the conversation or the 
center of the way the neighborhood 
thinks about itself,” he said. When he 
first moved to Fair Haven, he renamed 
a nine-block radius after the small park 
at its center, Chatham Square, and 
founded a neighborhood association to 
bring together the area’s residents and 
those of Fair Haven more generally. 
His own home on Clinton Street is part 
of the small Chatham Square district, 
and Atwater Street is one of its outer 
boundaries. 


The 
Chatham 
Square 
Neighborhood Association has been 
active since its founding. Once Cruz and 
others harassed a drug-dealing family on 
Atwater Street until they moved, and the 
association petitioned for speed bumps 
A boarded-up house in Fair Haven, where the median 
household income was $33,000 a year according to the 
2000 census.
Harry Simperingham


and narrower lanes on the same street 
to discourage the prostitution and drug 
sales that relied on it for a fast getaway. 
They erected play sets in a park where 
dealers used to conduct their business, 
helping the neighborhood children 
paint a mural that reads “We Love Fair 
Haven” on its graffiti-covered walls. 
Today, they partner with the Yale School 
of Public Health to teach good eating 
habits in schools and put fresh fruit 
and vegetables in local stores, and they 
hold an annual Halloween festival and a 
neighborhood clean-up in the spring. 


But of all the group’s efforts, Cruz 
said none has been more important than 
coining the name “Chatham Square.” 
These blocks are no different than 
those around them—he relabeled them 
because “Fair Haven” had such negative 
connotations. 


“We 
rebranded 
the 
neighborhood,” he explained proudly, 
adding that both the mayor and Channel 
8 News had picked up the phrase within 
a year. Cruz couldn’t throw out the entire 
history of Fair Haven, but renaming his 
neighborhood gave him some small 
license to start over.


While King is animated, Cruz 
is reserved. He wears wire-rimmed 
glasses and a graying beard, and, on 
cold days, a tweed beret. His speech is 
soft and measured. But he is clearly at 
ease in Chatham Square, where he is 
a familiar sight because he walks the 
neighborhood twice a day with his dogs. 
On the morning of my tour, he greeted 
every person we passed, from a man 
clearing leaves in his yard to a teenager 
slouching by in a hoodie.  


Cruz told me his role, and that of 
the neighborhood association, is to 
provide a combination of “common 
courtesy and customer service”—not 
to preach or prophesy. “I have a vision 
for the way the world should be, and I 
haven’t given up on that vision,” he said. 
“But that isn’t the most important thing.” 
Addressing a hypothetical neighbor, 
Cruz said, “The most important thing is, 
‘What do you want to do?’ Because you 
want to work with me.” Cruz told me 
that affluent people who attempt to help 
impoverished neighborhoods sometimes 
fail because they get too wrapped up in 
their own ideas. Reading people is part 
of helping them, and vision can be 
distracting.


Though he tries to keep the big 
picture in mind, Cruz relishes the 
small successes. In this line of work, 
they may be the most important 
kind. During our walk, Cruz pointed 
out a house on Atwater covered in 
Halloween decorations over a week 
early. “This is what I live for,” he said. 
Someone had spent considerable time 
stringing cobwebs across the shrubs and 
transforming the lawn into a miniature 
graveyard, and their efforts brightened 
the entire street. 


Hope is as important to Cruz’s 
mission as it is to King’s, but the 
things that indicate its presence are 
unglamorous: a well-kept lawn, a big 
turnout at a movie screening, a mural 
Lee Cruz stands on Atwater Street. He has worked in the 
community for over a decade.


that is untouched by graffiti after over 
a year. These victories won’t free the 
neighborhood from urban America’s 
myriad, interlocking problems. But they 
make people feel better about the place 
where they live and inspire them to 
improve it, little by little.


Cruz isn’t trying to make this 
neighborhood anew. He already loves it 
here. He told me that he, like others who 
live in Fair Haven though they could 
afford a house somewhere else, does so 
because Fair Haven reflects reality more 
accurately than an affluent neighborhood 
could. “It’s in that diversity of color and 
ethnicity and income that we want our 
kids to grow up,” he said. “And our kids 
will see that that’s the way the world is. 
They’re not being sheltered behind a 
wall. We’ll do what we can to fight against 
it, but we’re not going to hide from it 
by moving someplace where it quote-
unquote ‘doesn’t exist.’ ” Perfection is 
always an oversimplification, and Cruz 
isn’t looking for that. He gave me an 
alternative vision of utopia—one that 
embraces this neighborhood in all its 
complexity.


Cruz is trying to get to know King 
and the other members of ARC, 
not because of the value of their 
ideas, but because he’s hopeful that a 
community could grow up around their 
efforts. He pointed me to research by 
Felton Earls, a criminology expert at 
the Harvard School of Public Health 
who demonstrated that when neighbors 
get to know one another, violent crime 
decreases. Communities where adults 
know the children by name fare the best. 
Adults have more sway over miscreants 
if they can threaten to call their parents, 
and those miscreants are less likely to 
hurt people they know. 


Fair Haven’s communities are 
usually affinity groups. Ecuadorians 
might help other Ecuadorians, Puerto 
Ricans might help other Puerto Ricans, 
and so on, Cruz said. (I thought of the 
Voigts and Chiaraluce, all of whom 
are white.) Earls’ theory only applies 
to communities formed around shared 
space, not shared interests. Cruz said 
the Chatham Square Neighborhood 
Association 
works 
to 
promote 
inclusiveness, and ARC could do the 
same. Many of ARC’s projects could 
bring together the people of Atwater 
Street, like the garden Waschall and King 
hope to start in a spacious backyard, or 
the day camp they might run for local 
children.


The best ways to build community, 
Cruz said, are simply to learn to 
compromise, and to stick around. When 
I told him my concerns about ARC, and 
those that the Voigts and Chiaraluce 
voiced, he wasn’t surprised. King, 
Waschall, and the others “will make 
mistakes,” he said. “They’ll get people 
that are naysayers on both sides”—
poor people who resent their ideas and 
affluent people who don’t understand 
their desire to work with the poor. But 
they have made an investment by moving 
in, and if they stay they will become 
part of the neighborhood and gain the 
credibility with which to change it.


The last time I talked to King, he 
was still more interested in world history 
than in community building, but he 
assured me that he sees his move to 
Atwater Street as a permanent one. 
He’s putting down roots here to prepare 
for a global cataclysm, but I hope that 
if it doesn’t come, he’ll continue, as he 
said, trying to “take care of our own 
backyard.” 


Waschall told me that his perspective, 
at least, has changed in his months on 
Atwater Street. “When we got here, it 
pretty quickly became apparent that we 
needed other people involved to make 
this work,” he said. Waschall is clean-cut 
with a young face, but he’s thoughtful. I 
have often seen him pause to consider an 
opinion. Though he more or less follows 
King’s lead, I suspect that he has his own 
ideas about how ARC should proceed. 
In our most recent conversation, he told 
me he is still committed to alternative 
currencies, but thinks ARC should be 
open to some cash transactions if that’s 
what their neighbors need. The currency 
system is the vehicle. The point of 
the project is “a great life, the people 
around you, abundance in relationships, 
happiness.”


Though utopia is out of style, despair 
isn’t the only option. Fredric 
Jameson, a famous utopian thinker and 
professor at Duke University, recently 
wrote that the modern era needs 
to counter nihilism with “anti-anti-
Utopianism.” We may never regain the 
hope that we can get it exactly right, but 
we can still work to improve the world 
we have.


To me, Cruz is the essential anti-
anti-utopian. He brings to his work 
not only the dogged belief that things 
will get better, but also the humility 
to compromise and the patience to 
keep trying, even when people reject 
his help, sabotage his spring clean-up, 
or vandalize his brand new park. King 
has the first trait, and I hope that, as he 
grows to love his new home, he may 
develop the other two. Regardless of his 
opinions about money, King has spent 
a lot of his capital on real estate in this 
neighborhood. Unlike me, he can’t get 
on a bicycle and go somewhere more 
comfortable at the end of the day. If 
Cruz is right about the importance of 
community, then it’s in King’s interests 
to foster one in Fair Haven. 


I suspect that King will have a hard 
time making Atwater Street conform to 
the vision in his mind, and I think that’s 
for the best. The problem with utopia 
is that it’s an end goal. Once you get 
there, you have nowhere else to go. It 
is the attempt that reveals the incredible 
power of the human imagination and 
the magical truth that changing the 
way people think about their lives 
also changes the way they live. I hope 
King, the cognitive scientist, will see a 
profound “consciousness shift” in this 
neighborhood. It may just take place less 
in his neighbors, and more in himself, 
than he expects.



**Title: CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Ben Kline**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Cheshire murder trials have forced Connecticut to 
confront its position on capital punishment.


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: None Listed**
**Page number(s): 38**

Clockwise from top left: 
Jennifer Hawke-Petit and her two 
daughters Hayley, 17, and Michaela, 
11 were murdered in their Cheshire, 
Connecticut home in 2007; Joshua 
Komisarjevsky is facing the death 
penalty for these murders; Stephen 
Hayes was sentenced to death in 
2010 for his part in the brutal crimes. 
Previous page: gloves found at the 
crime scene.


**Page number(s): 39**

O
n November 29, the defense 
rested its case in the sentencing 
trial of Joshua Komisarjevsky. 
In October, Komisarjevsky had been 
convicted of a slew of heinous charges, 
including six capital felonies, due to his 
involvement in a crime significant both 
for its gruesomeness and for the 
national media attention it received. 
Four years ago, on July 23, 2007, 
Komisarjevsky and a man named 
Steven Hayes invaded the home 
of the Petit family—William Petit, 
Jennifer Hawke-Petit, and their 
daughters Michaela and Hayley—
in Cheshire, Connecticut. The 
account of events that emerged 
during the trial is as follows. 
Komisarjevsky beat Petit over the 
head with a baseball bat, tied the 
two girls to their beds, and sexually 
molested Michaela. Hayes raped 
and strangled Hawke-Petit, doused 
the girls’ beds and the house with 
gasoline, and lit a fire. Only William 
Petit survived, his daughters dying 
of smoke inhalation in their 
burning home. In November 2010, 
jurors sentenced Steven Hayes to death. 
A year later, Joshua Komisarjevsky, who 
was convicted of capital offenses, faced 
the possibility of a death sentence.
Komisarjevsky’s 
lawyers 
knew 
they faced an uphill battle, but over the 
course of the six-week sentencing trial, 
they attempted to paint a picture of 
their client as a troubled soul deserving 
of mercy, not a monster. Witnesses 
included Komisarjevsky’s pastors, his 
parole officer from former crimes, and 
his 9-year-old daughter. On November 
29, the defense rested its case and 
submitted a final list of forty-three 
mitigating factors for the jury to consider 
in deciding Komisarjevsky’s sentence.
Factor 2: “Josh was raised in a 
conservative 
evangelical 
Christian 
community.”
Factor 5: “Josh was sexually abused 
by his foster brother.”
Factor 14: “Josh sought out 
nurturing role models.”
Factor 28: “Josh has no history of 
aggression or physical violence.”
Factor 41: “Life imprisonment 
without the possibility of release is a 
sufficiently harsh punishment.”
Factor 43: “Josh is a human being, 
albeit severely damaged, whose life has 
value.”
pposition to the death penalty 
tends to be part of the standard 
liberal political package. I heard about 
the Cheshire murders from a very 
well-informed, very liberal friend. She 
concluded the story with the grave 
coda that if she didn’t oppose the death 
penalty, she’d be hoping that Hayes and 
Komisarjevsky get the needle for what 
they did. I won’t deny that I agreed with 
her. But the state of Connecticut is not 
opposed to the death penalty, according 
to the law. What has been for so long in 
this state a largely symbolic penalty—
rarely applied, carried out even more 
infrequently—has suddenly taken center 
stage in the Cheshire murder trials. The 
system is an expensive, time-consuming 
compromise whereby the state can 
condemn criminals to death without 
having to execute them. But the question 
of whether the state ought to take the 
lives of criminals is a yes-or-no question.
Several weeks into the sentencing 
phase of Joshua Komisarjevsky’s trial, 
a woman named Clare Hogenauer with 
a wheeled walker was sitting outside the 
courthouse where Komisarjevsky’s trial 
was taking place. Dressed in a fuzzy navy 
coat, scraggly tufts of gray hair poking 
out from under a bright pink cap—she 
is often mistaken for a homeless person, 
even though she is a former attorney 
and lives in a Manhattan penthouse—
Hogenauer had surrounded herself 
with signs bearing urgent messages 
to the jurors in Judge Jon Blue’s 
courtroom: “Help Dr. Petit: Vote 
Life!” 
Even 
though 
Petit 
has 
publicly stated his wish to see both 
murderers put to death, Hogenauer 
believes Petit is asking not for 
closure, but for many more years of 
pain. “He just hasn’t quite realized 
it yet,” she said, the wisdom of an 
eccentric great-aunt in her voice. 
“With the appellate process, this 
case goes on for decades, and this 
poor dear and his family would not 
be able to get on with their lives. 
Seeking an execution just eats them 
up with hate, anger, and revenge.” 
Hogenauer spoke of the “other 
victims” of capital punishment: the 
attorneys, judges, jurors, and witnesses 
who are morally and emotionally 
tormented for years after taking part in 
a trial that leads to execution. She told 
stories about lawyers weeping openly 
in court, executioners experiencing 
religious conversions. After all, she has 
had at this for a long time, even while 
battling lymphoma. The death penalty, it 
seems, can also eat up the people who 
fight against it.
“This 
will 
give 
you 
chills,” 
Hogenauer said, extracting a scrap of 
paper from the messy stack of cards and 
receipts in her wallet. It was the corner 
of an envelope, showing a faded return 
address scrawled under the name Michael 
Ross. Ross, who was convicted of raping 
and killing eight women in the early 
1980s, is the only person to be executed 
in Connecticut since the Supreme Court’s 
1976 decision in Gregg v. Georgia, which 
upheld the legality of the death penalty 
after a brief moratorium. In 1994, 
Ross’s death sentence was overturned 
due to the mishandling of psychiatric


Does the understandable 
desire of one heartbroken 
man to seek his version of 
justice override the high 
costs—financial and 
otherwise—of 
capital punishment?



**The Cheshire Murders: A Question of Justice**
**Author: Ben Kline**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal
evidence in his case, but the sentence 
was reinstated in 2000. By that time, 
Ross had decided he was ready to die for 
his crimes, choosing to forgo any further 
appeals. The scrap that Hogenauer 
carried around like a relic was from an 
envelope that had once contained 
one of several letters Ross sent 
her while on death row. 
Ross’s 
letters, 
thanking 
Hogenauer for her support, 
were meant to reach her after his 
death, but, due to multiple stays 
of execution, Hogenauer and 
others received multiple letters, 
each seemingly coming from 
beyond the grave. The last one, 
from May 2005, was not a false 
alarm. That month, Ross became 
the first person to be executed 
in 
Connecticut 
since 
1960. 
Connecticut, 
which 
currently 
has ten people on death row, is 
similar to the few northeastern 
states that still have death penalty 
statutes on the books in that 
the death penalty is, in practice, 
almost never carried out. The exception 
was a man who chose to die instead of 
fighting indefinitely through the appeals 
process. Ross’s decision to die in order 
to spare his victims’ families the pain of 
further appeals was “well-intentioned,” 
Hogenauer said. “But it was a mistake.”


While Ross, Komisarjevsky, and 
Hayes all confessed to their 
crimes, a state that administers the death 
penalty runs the risk of executing people 
who have been wrongfully convicted. 
In 1989, James Tillman was convicted 
of sexual assault, robbery, kidnapping, 
assault, and larceny. He was not 
sentenced to death, but his convictions 
got him forty-five years, of which he 
served sixteen and a half before being 
exonerated and released in 2006. State 
Senator Edith Prague of Norwich 
cites the Tillman case as significant in 
changing her view of the death penalty. 
She had previously taken a stance 
during the trial of Ross, who murdered 
the granddaughter of one of Prague’s 
neighbors. This personal connection 
had made Prague a supporter of the 
death penalty for criminals like him, but 
James Tillman’s exoneration shook her 
belief. “I really began to think about 
my position on the death penalty and 
decided that the chance of somebody 
being innocent and facing execution 
for something they didn’t do was just 
too much for me to bear,” Prague said. 
“So I decided I would vote for repeal 
and for life in prison for somebody who 
commits a heinous crime.” 

Recently, opponents of the death 
penalty in Connecticut have come very 
close to winning repeal. In 2009, a 
repeal bill passed both houses of the 
state legislature, but Governor Jodi Rell, 
a Republican, vetoed it. This past year, 
with Dannel Malloy, a Democrat and 
an opponent of the death penalty, in 
the governor’s office, activists hoped to 
push another bill through the legislature. 
But in May, when abolishing the death 
penalty came up for a vote once again, 
Prague voted against repeal and for the 
death penalty. Steven Hayes had already 
been sentenced to death by this point, 
but Komisarjevsky still awaited trial. 
Like Tillman’s case, the Cheshire murder 
trials had given Prague another change 
of heart. Just before the death penalty 
repeal vote in the state senate, Petit 
requested to meet with Prague. 
“I don’t know what the families 
would feel about our death penalty,” 
Prague said. “It certainly is a long, drawn 
out process. It costs the state millions of 
dollars because of the appeals. But that 
wasn’t the issue for me. The issue for me 
was that the bill was something 
that Dr. Petit’s lawyer said that 
they wanted and needed in order 
to get the death penalty for these 
two...” she trailed off, pausing 
before referring to Hayes and 
Komisarjevsky. “I don’t know 
what you want to call them. I 
can’t find a word to describe how 
horrible they are, both of them.”

Prague was able to find 
words for Komisarjevsky last 
May, however. “I said they ought 
to hang him from his penis from 
a tree downtown,” she told me. 
Even though Komisarjevsky’s 
lawyer protested that this type of 
comment could potentially sway 
his client’s future jurors, Prague 
said that the reaction amongst 
her constituents was positive. “I 
had one man call and say he wanted to 
pick out the tree.” Prague and Maynard 
both voted against repeal, and the bill 
to abolish the death penalty failed once 
again. 

Could the movement to abolish the 
death penalty in Connecticut really have 
been halted by a single conversation? 
Does the understandable desire of one 
heartbroken man to seek his version of 
justice override the high costs—financial 
and otherwise—of capital punishment? 
Speaking to Prague, I remembered 
Victoria Coward, a representative of the 
Connecticut Network to Abolish the 
Death Penalty, or CNADP, and a New 
Haven mother whose son Tyler was 
murdered when he was 18. At a talk at 
Yale this fall, Coward didn’t focus on 
her search for justice through the legal 
system. Instead, she talked about the 
emotional toll her son’s death has taken 
on her family and about the lack of state 
resources to aid the families of murder 
victims. It is as if the state assumes that 
its penalties—including the sentencing 
of 
the 
murderer 
to 
death—can 
somehow bring victims’ families a sense 
of “closure” when, in reality, nothing 
can. Ben Jones, Executive Director of 
CNADP, takes issue with how death 
penalty law “holds up certain murders as 
being particularly heinous while ignoring 
the fact that all murders are heinous. It 
can be disrespectful to try and distinguish 
between murders and say that some are 
more heinous than others.” If Victoria 
Coward had gone to Hartford in May 
to plead with Prague to vote for repeal, 
at the same time as William Petit was 
asking her to vote against it, whose story 
would have proven more persuasive? 

Prague knows that in practice, 
does 
not 
perform 
executions, but she still thinks that 
both Hayes and Komisarjevsky—if he 
is sentenced to death—will eventually 
be executed for their crimes, pending 
changes in the way the death penalty 
works in Connecticut. “If the death 
penalty stays in place, I think we 
absolutely need to limit the amount and 
number of appeals,” she said. “I think 
there’s a lot of work that needs to go into 
the death penalty law that we have on the 
books.” A death sentence in Connecticut 
is not a one-way ticket to the execution 
chamber. Instead, it places an inmate in a 
limbo between life and death. It’s kind of 
like tossing someone into the middle of 
the ocean. As long as he can tread water 
throughout years of appeals, he can stay 
afloat. It’s not a great life, by any means, 
but for most on death row, it beats the 
alternative. Only if a prisoner chooses 
to stop treading—as Michael Ross did—
will he drown. Death penalty proponents 
would have a hard time arguing that the 
current system either deters crime or 
delivers justice to victims’ families. Of 
course, opponents of the death penalty 
argue that, even when it is carried out, 
capital punishment serves neither of 
these purposes.


On November 23, Oregon governor 
John 
Kitzhaber 
ordered 
a 
moratorium on the death penalty for the 
remainder of his term in office, joining 
politicians in Illinois, New Mexico, New 
Jersey, and New York who have abolished 
or altered death penalty laws in recent 
years. Only two men have been executed 
in Oregon since the death penalty was 
reinstated there in 1978; both, like Ross, 
had to request an end to appeals in order 
to receive their sentences. “The reality 
is that, in Oregon, our death sentence 
is essentially an extremely expensive life 
prison term,” Kitzhaber said, according 
to The Washington Post. The decision 
had a direct effect on an Oregon death 
row inmate named Gary Hauger, who 
had abandoned further attempts at 
appeal and was to die on December 6. 
Hauger is angry. His victims’ families are 
angry, understandably. But Kitzhaber’s 
reasoning is simple. “I simply cannot 
participate once again in something that 
I believe to be morally wrong,” he said. 
Whatever you believe about the 
inherent morality of capital punishment, 
think about its iteration in states like 
Connecticut, Oregon, and Pennsylvania 
(my home state), where it is up to the 
convicts to choose whether or not they 
die, where the death penalty serves as a 
hollow symbol of justice. Think about 
Victoria Coward, whose daughter has 
sunk into depression and substance 
abuse that no punishment of her 
brother’s killer could reverse. And while 
you are thinking, Joshua Komisarjevsky, 
who has yet to be sentenced as of press 
time, will be wondering if a hand will 
come down from above to scoop him 
out of the water. Whether or not the 
state legislature votes to abolish the 
death penalty during its next session, 
Komisarjevsky will spend the rest of 
his life locked in prison with a horrible 
burden on his soul. In the meantime, 
he’s begun his endless wait. The defense 
has rested its case.


**Playing Hardball**
**Author: Ben Mueller**
**Page number(s): 42**

am New York/Deadspin.com
Playing Hardball
At 13, Jericho Scott is happy to be a has-been national baseball sensation.
By Ben Mueller
Three years later, the remnants 
of Jericho Scott’s brush with 
youth baseball superstardom 
hang proudly in his small bedroom. A 
signed shirt from television personality 
Jimmy Kimmel is stuck to the wall 
next to Jericho’s own FatHead, a 
brand of oversized wall sticker usually 
emblazoned with the likenesses of major 
league all-stars, not scrawny nine-year-
olds pitching for youth teams sponsored 
by pizza parlors. His limbs flailing and 
his face scrunched into a ball of childish 
               PROFILE
effort, the Jericho whom the sticker 
depicts hurls one of the famed fastballs 
that got him kicked out of his league and 
into the national media spotlight. Today, 
Jericho cringes a bit at the image. “I don’t 
like how I look in that one,” he says.

On August 20, 2008, Jericho, now 
13, took the mound at Criscuolo Park on 
Chapel Street for then-undefeated Will 
Power Fitness, a team in the Liga Juvenil 
de Baseball, the small summer league he’d 
joined mid-season. The L.J.B. warned 
that Jericho, an above-average pitcher 
in this new league who was still only the 
third-best pitcher on his spring PONY 
League team, threw too hard and needed 
to change positions or move into an 
older age group. Jericho’s coach and 
parents ignored the warning and sent 
him out to pitch. After league officials 
promptly declared the game a forfeit 
and Jericho broke down in tears on the 
mound, editorials from New Haven to 
Idaho argued that the young boy was 
punished simply for being too good.

Over the coming weeks, as the 
Jericho Scott, pictured here in 2008, on the mound.



**Title: Joyride**
**Author: Ben Mueller**
**Page number(s): 45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It’s already past 10 a.m., but campus 
is silent on a Sunday morning. The 
overcast sky is the color of cream 
of wheat, and clouds linger placidly 
overhead. The cool November air feels 
too sleepy to stir, and there’s not a hint 
of a breeze. I’m anxious to get on the 
road to my aunt’s home in Simsbury, 
Connecticut and the Massachusetts 
border, but haste would upset the 
composure of the moment. Then again, 
I have a 112-mile day in front of me.


I’d been kicking around the idea 
for this ride since a confrontation with 
a cloyingly sweet cupcake a few weeks 
earlier, at a particularly bad time in my 
life. “There’s far too much frosting on 
this cupcake,” I can remember thinking. 
My parents and I had each been staring 
into space for the last ten minutes. My 
mother sat on my dorm-room mattress. 
My father had chosen the beanbag chair. 
I keep my equipment in my room, so we 
were crowded. One of my bicycles rested 
in a repair stand a few feet above the 
ground. The other machine lay against 
the wall. A set of carbon racing wheels 
filled the fireplace, and various solvents, 
lubricants, spare parts, and tools lined 
the mantle. I had bargained hard for 
the only single in Branford College with 
two walk-in closets to accommodate my 
jerseys, jackets, and socks, which all the 
same lay strewn on the floor.


I was munching on a giant, goopy 
Halloween cupcake, but the sweetness 
disgusted me. The toothpaste-green 
frosting didn’t help matters either. I 
pushed it away. 


I was in a bad place that night. We 
had come upstairs when my voice began 
to tighten in the dining hall. It had been 
a semester so far of tearful phone calls, 
late-night flashes of panic, and trips to 
Health Services. Somehow, I was mis-
shifting. A lingering, lurking anxiety—
about my future, about my inadequacies, 
real or imagined—had dropped the 
chain, and my pedals were spinning. 
The thought of the time, expense, and 
care my parents had so generously 
given me only deepened the shame of 
the moment. I needed a day to be more 
than a harried, sleepless college student. 
I needed to do something to remind 
myself why I’d come here for school.


A long time ago, I caught the “New 
England bug”— chiefly a dream about 
family roots, the Ivy League, and Robert 
Frost poems. My father’s family is from 
Glastonbury, not far east of his sister’s 
home in Simsbury, where we had visited 
her many years ago. After that trip, 
I liked to imagine myself as a young 
California whippersnapper returning 
to his Connecticut roots for a proper 
university education. While I had made 
it to New Haven, I hadn’t gotten around 
to visiting my aunt and uncle, and I 
hadn’t seen them in nearly seven years. 
Reconnecting with them after a ride 
through the Connecticut countryside 
seemed like a healthy, sane thing to do. 
If I was going as far as Simsbury, I might 
even ride to the end of the Farmington 
Canal Trail at the Massachusetts border, 
fifteen miles farther north.


Bicycles don’t have faces, but every 
night the one on my stand stared me 
right in the kisser. There it was, repaired, 
poised, expectant, reproachful. The thick 
welds and wide tubes towered above 
my room, waiting only for a willing 
companion. I needed a day to myself, 
and that meant a day on my bike.


I’ve forgotten my sunglasses. Despite 
my three spare tubes, a hand pump, a 
mini-tool, pockets bulging with energy 
gels, arm warmers, leg warmers, a rear 
light, and about every other bike-related 
knickknack imaginable, I always forget 
something important when I’m going 
out on a ride. On the other hand, at least 
people will be able to look me in the 
eye. Maybe they’ll see a person and not a 
spectacled, spandex-encased alien. 
Never in two years of riding around 
southern Connecticut have I really 
biked the Farmington Canal Trail, built 
over what was once an actual canal. 
Enterprising 
merchants 
completed 
the Farmington Canal running north 
from New Haven Harbor to the state 
border in 1835 in the early, heady days 
of American industrialization. The 
canal ran fifty-eight miles and featured 
an elaborate system of culverts and 
channels to supply its water from nearby 
streams. Numerous side channels and 
holding basins to accommodate two-
way traffic adorned the canal route. The 
canal itself, however, was little more than 
a glorified ditch—unlined, with a bare 
earthen bottom. 


Just over a decade later, the canal 
was filled and covered with railroad 
when shipping by train became more 
affordable. 
Today, 
colorful 
burnt-
orange signs warn cyclists and runners 


--- Page 44 ---

44
The New Journal

**Title:  The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 44**

Mark Gambardella knows well 
what could lie ahead for his players. “I 
had one team that, right now, my first 
baseman has killed a teacher at Cross, 
my shortstop put an ice pick down at 
Fireside Café into somebody’s back, my 
catcher did armed robbery,” he said. 
(Cross is a nickname for Wilbur Cross 
High School in New Haven.)


Baseball doesn’t just keep Jericho 
out of trouble. It offers a home to the 
whole Scott family, from four-year-old 
Carizma, who is Jericho’s most loyal fan, 
to Jericho’s older brother Alex, who also 
played for Gambardella. Nicole joined 
the ranks of youth baseball coaches this 
season, signing on to lead a tee-ball team 
that included her young daughters. Next 
year, she says, two of her daughters will 
be playing for Gambardella, who also 
coaches girls. Even sitting in the stands 
is important to Nicole, who said she 
doesn’t hang out much around their 
home. Jericho’s team includes many 
families from outside Fair Haven, and 
early Saturday mornings at the local field 
and late evenings on tournament trips to 
Long Island have built friendships that 
the family holds dear. “That’s what we 
do,” Nicole said. “We get dressed in the 
summer and we’re at the baseball park. 
That’s where we’re at all day.”


Then there’s Gambardella, who 
played as a boy in the same league in 
which Jericho now plays and has spent 
the last thirty-two years coaching youth 
baseball, seven of them with Jericho. In 
terms of cost and time, Gambardella 
offers the Scotts and other families a 
bargain they won’t find elsewhere. He 
started a small new league this summer 
because parents’ other options were too 
expensive, and twice as many kids signed 
up as he expected. Gambardella and 
his son simply doubled their coaching 
duties. “We made a commitment,” he 
said.  


“Mark is part of our family, outside 
of sports,” Nicole said. The man whose 
connection to Jericho was forged 
through hundreds of pitch signals now 
comes to every birthday party and 
graduation ceremony. He was there 
recently as the family mourned the death 
of Nicole’s grandmother, who had lived 
with Nicole her whole life.  


Gambardella can identify with 
his players. “I was no angel growing 
up, either,” he said. He knows that his 
duties extend into foul territory and well 
beyond the fence. “We try to teach ’em 
life. I like to give ’em someone to talk to 
outside of their family.”  


Jericho 
has 
been 
begging 
Gambardella to coach an older team next 
year so that he doesn’t have to move on. 
“He’s like a father to me,” Jericho said. 
“And my mom. More like a grandfather 
to me.”


I wanted to tell this story without 
TNJ
Ben Mueller is a junior in 
Berkeley College. 
any made-for-TV moralizing. But for 
the Scotts, Jericho’s story does have a 
moral—an important one. They depend 
on baseball to teach in an immediate, 
physical 
way 
lessons 
that 
aren’t 
communicated elsewhere in Fair Haven. 
In the old news stories, the Scotts’ 
complaints about the bad message the 
league was sending sounded trite. In 
person, their claims were urgent and 
alive. “I teach him, whatever you do, try 
to be the best at it, in school and baseball 
and everything else,” Nicole said. “He 
wasn’t doing anything wrong.”  


Leroy’s voice rang with the same 
intensity as his wife’s. “If you practice 
hard enough, you can be the best you 
can be,” he said, after I asked him why 
the incident made him so angry.


Now, Jericho sometimes finds 
himself unable to keep up with older 
kids’ fastballs. “Am I gonna say ‘I don’t 
want him playing and your kid can’t pitch 
to him anymore’?” Nicole asked. “If my 
kid can’t hit, then he needs to practice 
more. He needs to go to the batting cage 
and turn it up a little bit and practice 
more. You can’t hit ’em today, but next 
time you will. And sure enough he does.”



Back in his room, Jericho mostly 
mumbles through our conversation 
about baseball.  But his voice perks up 
for the first time when he tells me that 
he also likes to draw. He shows me a 
handsome sketch of Goofy he made—
nose wrinkled, eyes protruding, face lit 
in bright Crayola hues—with a note for 
his mom on her birthday. He has more, 
he says—his favorite piece is a picture of 
a skull and crossbones with guns—but 
they’re all packed away. After all, months 
of attention taught Jericho what I’m 
really interested in. He takes an 8.5 x 11 
glossy photo from a stack in the kitchen 
and offers to sign it for me. “Thank you 
for your support,” he writes.

“I had one team that, right 
now, my first baseman has 
killed a teacher at Cross, 
my shortstop put an ice pick 
down at Fireside Café into 
somebody’s back, my catcher 
did armed robbery.”
youth baseball coach
- Mark  Gambardella, 


--- Page 43 ---

43
January 2012

**Title: Untitled**
**Page number(s): 43**

Scotts raised money for a lawsuit against 
the league and the league held press 
conferences defending its decision, 
media outlets around the country trained 
their gaze on Jericho and turned a few bad 
decisions into a morality tale for the ages. 
It started when Jericho’s mother, Nicole, 
brought the story to News Channel 8 in 
New Haven. Soon journalists descended 
on Jericho’s home. Jimmy Kimmel and 
Jay Leno came calling. Mourn the enforced 
mediocrity of  our youth! yelled talking heads 
on ESPN. Look at the home mortgage crisis 
if  you think youth baseball is the only place 
where people are no longer allowed to fail! 
wrote others. Jericho was featured in a 
three-minute segment on the CBS Early 
Show in which he’s seen pitching on a 
sidewalk in New York City. He fumbles 
his catcher’s nervous return tosses and 
hides behind his mother’s legs as a crowd 
looks on. The eager host exclaims at a 
47-mile-per-hour fastball that is in fact 
average speed for a nine-year-old.


It was a display of rampant 
journalistic moralizing, though Jericho 
and his parents say they never felt 
victimized by the media. But why did 
Jericho become a national media figure 
in the first place? I was amazed when 
I stopped to think about what Nicole 
reportedly yelled that August afternoon. 
“This will be the last year,” she shouted. 
“Once the lawyer is done they’re gonna 
eat shit and there ain’t gonna be a league 
next year.” I wanted to know why it 
mattered so much to her and to those 
close to her son.


Nicole runs a lively, orderly home in 
the rundown community of Fair 
Haven. Outside, teenagers hang out on 
street corners and trash litters abandoned 
yards. Inside, when I visit her, Nicole 
gracefully juggles the needs of her three 
daughters, who all have come down with 
a bug. She passes judgment on requests 
for soda and Wii as we talk about her 
children. “This neighborhood’s not 
the best,” she says. “I try to keep them 
focused on doing things to stay positive, 
enrolled in stuff so they’re not in the 
neighborhood.” Leroy, Jericho’s dad, 
stops in for dinner between a full day at 
work as an auto mechanic and a class his 
union is holding.


Jericho is an A student and a self-
professed “neat freak” who has become 
one of the best thirteen-year-old 
pitchers in New Haven, according to 
his long-time coach Mark Gambardella. 
Gambardella 
coached 
the 
better-
organized spring outfit on which Jericho 
played before and since the pitching 
incident. Yet still, Jericho’s parents 
worry. “You don’t want me to talk about 
Jericho,” Leroy said abruptly when I 
called. “Me and him, we’re having a 
tough time.” As Leroy sees it, Jericho’s 
been dealt a good hand—two parents, a 
stable home, a supportive coach—and 
hasn’t quite had his eyes opened to the 
misery that is only a few bad decisions 
away for him. “He doesn’t know what it’s 
like to have nothing.”  


Jericho has never been in serious 
trouble, but Leroy wants him not to 
forget that his talent and upbringing 
alone won’t save him in a town where 
“you have fourteen-year-olds holding 
pistols.” Jericho carries himself with 
self-assuredness, but both Leroy and 
Gambardella know a sensitive boy 
beneath the “city front.” 


“I’m not sure how strong he is on 
his own,” Gambardella said.


Once the public outcry against the 
league’s injustice faded, the Scotts 
became easy targets for criticism. John 
Williams, the prominent New Haven 
civil rights attorney who handled the 
Scotts’ lawsuit, describes the case now as 
a “typical example when adults meddle 
needlessly in the lives of their children.” 
Craig Fehrman, a graduate student in 
English at Yale and the reporter who 
covered Jericho’s story for Deadspin, 
a sports news Web site, told me that 
Nicole and Leroy “were putting a bad 
energy into the kid, where the way he 
performed in sports was a reflection of 
them.”


Nicole, who admits that she and 
Leroy are “the loud parents” at games, 
can certainly be held responsible for 
feeding the media fire. Gambardella said 
that “Jericho would have stayed probably 
quiet if it was up to him.” Nicole still 
thinks that her lawsuit against the league 
will make it to court and vindicate her, 
even though Williams says he gave up 
years ago. “It could go on till Jericho’s 19 
years old,” she proclaimed.


And the notoriety has worn on 
Jericho. “He doesn’t show it, but it’s 
really hard on him,” Leroy said. “With 
the exposure he’s had, it’s a little worse 
for him. He’s known in the community. 
You can’t be an average kid egging 
someone’s house on Halloween.”


Yet to criticize the Scotts for their 
stubbornness would be to ignore the 
central place baseball occupies in their 
lives. Baseball is not a peripheral passion 
for the Scotts, a game during which 
they relax their parenting principles and 
indulge in narcissism. In a neighborhood 
they mistrust, the stakes are high, and 
baseball is the game to which they cling 
for signs that Jericho is the courageous 
boy they need so badly to see. For better 
or for worse, baseball is the community, 
the coach, and the ethics that the Scotts 
are betting will guide Jericho into 
adulthood.

“This will 
be the last 
year,” Nicole 
shouted. “Once 
the lawyer is 
done they’re 
gonna eat shit 
and there 
ain’t gonna be 
a league next 
year.”



**Title: Canal Trail**
**Author: Nicholas Geiser**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Nicholas Geiser is a junior in 
Branford College.

of buried fiber optic cables shooting 
binary signals down the trail at the speed 
of light. Pedaling along the Canal Trail 
today, you retrace a history of relentless 
progress, of enterprising, single-minded, 
perpetually modernizing Americans—
the same “practical men” Ralph Waldo 
Emerson critiqued witheringly in his 
essay “The American Scholar.” They 
may not have been great literary or 
intellectual minds, but they reached into 
the future with undeniable skill and drew 
it toward them with panache. Tracing 
tracks laid by calloused hands and 
trenches dug on cold November days, I 
feel closer to these men.


Along the trail north of Hamden, 
the colonnades of trees have shed the 
last of their autumn leaves. I’m making 
worse time than I would like—debris 
from a recent storm litters the trail. The 
trees stand barren and naked, waiting 
patiently for winter coats of powdery 
snow. A few hold out, but their rusty, 
dark foliage droops from their branches. 
A “No Skinny Dipping!” sign that’s 
outlived its seasonal relevance marks 
a pond on the right. Runners, somber 
elderly couples, and strollers punctuate 
the path. Proper cycling etiquette 
requires a clear “On your left!” when 
passing others, but it seems mostly 
to startle. I go slowly past a gaggle of 
toddlers on the grassy shoulder, but 
despite my passing distance Mom is 
frightened. 


The Rails-to-Trails project that 
began converting the abandoned rail 
line to a multi-use path two decades ago 
has made slow progress, meaning the 
trail abruptly ends in places. Of course, 
Google Maps hasn’t gotten the memo. 
At one point in Cheshire the asphalt 
dissolves, and following my GPS, I take 
a dirt-access road that leads me across a 
nursery stock farm and through a cluster 
of greenhouses to the old rail line. The 
spikes have rusted through and the track 
is wildly overgrown in both directions. 
I stop to find my bearings. A pickup 
honks behind me. The driver is the one 
working on a Sunday, and I’m in the way.


Past Cheshire, the trail joins State 
Road 10. Time to open things up. There’s 
a slight tailwind, promising speed, and 
the bike settles into its rhythm. Not to 
disparage BMX or the mountain bikers 
of the world, but, in my opinion, the 
bicycle’s true home lies on the asphalt. 
Most simply, a bicycle is a tool for 
efficiently converting effort into motion. 
It converts work into velocity through 
a scheme of silently spinning gears, 
methodically turning pedals, and the 
gyroscopic equilibrium of the wheels. 
We move about the ground but above it. 
The experience demands power 
and control, mediated by clip-in pedals 
that make the machine an extension of 
the body. A bicycle beckons us toward 
the ideal of souplesse, or “smoothness,” 
a quality of ease and calmness in every 
action: whether holding a line shoulder-
to-shoulder in a tight pack, tracing 
the quickest arc through a corner, or 
launching the decisive attack when 
the road points skyward. Time on a 
bicycle, moreover, is a profoundly 
solitary experience. While we ride 
together and frequently cheat the wind 
with one another, each ride creates an 
irreducibly personal event. Each rider 
and bicycle form a whole, and a ride’s 
private sounds—the crisp whistle of the 
wind, the soft thrum of the tires—are 
engrossing against the silence of a well-
oiled chain.  


Three hours after I hit the trail, 
Simsbury’s main drag gradually emerges 
from the strip malls, fast food joints, and 
auto-repair shops along the highway. I’m 
almost there, and I’m struggling to think 
of conversation topics. My call the day 
before had been strained. While we had 
previously corresponded by e-mail about 
my “road trip,” I had put them on notice 
at the absolute last moment. “Hi, Aunt 
Amy? It’s Nick. Geiser, your nephew. 
Listen, I’m going to be riding the Canal 
trail tomorrow and I, uh, wondered if I 
could stop by? To see you and Mark?…” 
She drove to the point far more quickly: 
stop by any time, we’ll be out in the yard. 
Lily, their golden retriever, charges 
out of the garage to greet me. My San 
Francisco home was too small for a dog 
and a bite from an aggressive poodle 
colored my childhood opinion of 
them, but Lily was the one wonderful 
exception. I find my uncle Mark 
dispatching a fallen tree with a chainsaw 
on the edge of the property. His 
weathered, creased face greets me with 
a bemused “Howdy, Lance!” I manage 
a sheepish grin. I follow him back to 
the house, stepping gingerly to avoid 
muddying my Yale Cycling shoe covers. 
Amy relaxes in the living room watching 
the University of Connecticut women’s 
basketball team dispatch a far lesser 
squad. I try for the usual conversational 
topics about work and school, but find 
myself talking instead about the Canal 
trail, weather, and whether I can make 
it to the Massachusetts border before 
nightfall.


The visit drags on for an hour. My 
cleats noisily clomp about the house, 
and Lily is climbing all over me, mixing 
her muddy paw prints with the blue paw 
print pattern on my Yale kit. It’s time for 
me to go. 


After some hurried goodbyes, I’m 
back on the bike. It’s twilight already. 
There’s no way I’ll make it to the border 
before dark. The chill has set in and 
wind’s in my face now, pushing my pace 
down considerably. I’d overestimated 
the amount of time it would take me to 
get this far. If I want to make it back to 
school at a reasonable hour, I had better 
turn around now. 


On the journey back, I pedal 
through towns’ empty Sunday evening 
roads, with only the dull glow of neon 
signs and the occasional passing car to 
break the monotony of the trail. The 
visit with my relatives could have gone 
better, I could have made it farther 
north in a milder season, but I’m not 
too disappointed. The ribbon of asphalt 
before me dissolves into the darkness 
ahead. My wheels thrum. On the bicycle, 
things are in-between. Where I’ve come 
from, where I’m headed at that moment 
are irrelevant—I’m moving.



**Title: Secrets Are No Fun**
**Author: Aaron Gertler**
**Page number(s): 47**

January 2012
ENDNOTE                 
P
ayne Whitney Gymnasium, 9:05 PM. The volleyball game is over, and I stand with a fellow adventurer in ten stories of bright 
emptiness. Every footfall echoes. We’re alone, free to explore and investigate Yale’s athletic cathedral. The United States 
Squash Hall of Fame features a wall-to-wall trophy case with aspirations grander then its five lonely trophies. The crew tank 
looks like an ominous blend of slave galley and medieval dungeon. It takes only a little imagination to picture floggings on the tile 
floor. The open volleyball locker room teems with sweatbands, shampoo bottles, and CDs of inspirational music. But—alas!—no 
secrets. This will not do. Our mission is clear. 


I arrived in New Haven for my freshman year with a vague ambition to “keep busy,” until the Freshman Activities Bazaar 
knocked the wind from my sails. I wasn’t musical, or athletic, and my wishy-washy interest in social justice couldn’t match the ardent 
passion of my peers. Four hundred undergraduate groups fought for access to my time, body, soul, inbox—but I didn’t feel qualified 
for anything. I spent nights walking alone in my new city, aimless and nervous, clutching my wrinkled campus map, trying and failing 
to work up the nerve to knock on a fraternity’s door.


My brilliant college career was off to a slow start when I discovered a group of fellow wanderers with an eye for the mysterious: 
the Yale Society for the Exploration of Campus Secrets. Their first email contained only a link to their Web site. The page read, in 
full: yes or no? 
“Yes!” I clicked.
Excellent. Watch for messages.


My mind swam with visions: pressing secret panels and winning admittance to crypts, tunnels, and towers in the company of 
future C.I.A. operatives. Before long, a flyer appeared in my entryway: “YSECS Interest Meeting. Silliman Gate, Wall Street. 11:23 
p.m. do not be late.” The university’s secrets would soon be mine.


Or so I thought. In their trials by exploration, freshman YSECS rushees learn an important lesson. Yale is gigantic—impossible 
to fully explore—and most of it is not very interesting. Secret rooms turn out to be electrical closets; secret tunnels, just regular 
tunnels except with graffiti. Beware the occasional group of stoners who will lure you onto their “secret” ledge to debate the 
architectural genius of James Gamble Rogers. Their promises are false.


All the same, I couldn’t stop myself from seeing mysteries in Payne Whitney that night. Why did male athletes of old wear 
shorts that went only halfway to their knees? Why doesn’t Yale dispose of its long-retired tackling dummies and rusting World War 
Two-era weight stations? Why did the school build a cathedral just to stick a gym inside? 


The greatest enigma of all was a sign in the crew tank that read last year was last year—this year is this year. I thought of 
my high school cross-country battle cry: to run faster, you must run faster! I wondered whether the secret to sporting success lay 
in selecting the proper tautology. Surely, the Society for the Exploration of Campus Secrets would have an answer. For their sake, 
my companions and I trekked up five floors, and were ready to trek five more…


…but then we heard adult voices and decided to get the hell out of there. We flew down four flights of stairs in a matter of 
seconds—tiptoed around the ground floor—tried locked exits on every side—realized that getting arrested wouldn’t be the best 
way to end our first month of college—and finally found the door through which we’d entered and bolted into the fresh air, hearts 
racing. Forget Geronimo’s tomb. For a night, I’d tasted danger! Yale opened like a flower before my eyes. Soon, I’d be an elder of 
the Society for the Exploration of Campus Secrets, cloaked in black, flirting with freshmen at illicit candlelit parties—


Until they refused to admit me. Or my co-explorer. Somewhere on campus, three lucky freshmen—the successful initiates—
must have spent a Thursday crashing every secret society meeting or broken into Harkness Tower with duct tape and a butter 
knife. No more exploring for me—no more nights prowling the campus with pretty girls. Yale’s thrills had lost their charm. But last 
semester, as they say, was last semester. Come January, I think I’ll start crashing frat parties.

