Publication date: 12/87
Volume 20, Issue 3

**Title: Place of Refuse**
**Author: John Gill**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Place of Refuse 
Sometimes people forget. "There's 
nothing sadder than an empty porch," 
said Becky Seashore (TD '88), who as 
co-coordinator of the Compost Co-
operative makes morning van runs 
twice a month to pick up recyclable 
food wastes from the homes of the 
Coop's members. Apart from the occa-
sional absent compost bucket, how-
ever, Seashore and her colleague-in-
'compost, Betsy Lyman (For. '88), find 
their involvement in the Compost 
Cooperative a satisfying way to exer-
cise their ideals as environmentalists 
and to generate awareness about 
wasted resources. 

The Coop, now in its second year, 
hopes to exceed last spring's final 
membership of 79. Although most 
members among this year's increasing 
roster of 35 study at the Yale Forestry 
School, participants include a smatter-
ing of Yale professors and under-
graduates, as well as one rabbi. 

Members of the Coop agree to collect 
their leftover foodstuffs in a five-gallon 
compost bucket and to donate them to 
the Coop every two weeks. In addi-
tion, members divide the cost of gar-
bage bags, buckets, xeroxing and 
gas- a total contribution of under ten 
dollars a year for each participant. 

Finally, each member is asked to take 
part in the dirty work, joining the two 
coordinators in one hands-on compost 
pick-up run per year. 

Although one member characterized 
the pick-up run as an activity after 
which "you just come home feeling 
gross," Coop members consider the in-
convenience worthwhile because it 
...

"You just come home 
feeling gross." 
gives them an opportunity to return 
organic materials to the soil, rather 
than allowing them to be dumped into 
a city landfill. Seashore emphasized 
the value of overcoming the en-
vironmental limitations imposed by 
living in a city. In addition, she admit-
ted, "com posting is just a helluva lot of 
fun." One diversion in which com-
posters indulge is to guess the intimate 
details of other members' lives by ex-
amining their discarded leftovers. "All 
of a sudden there will be a half bucket 
of coffee grounds," said Seashore, "and 
you'll know this person is stressing 
out." 

The Coop's pick-up crew transports 
the leftovers from each home to the 
Forestry School for collection by Yale's 
uncrowned king of compost, Peter P in-
chot (For. '88). From the organi-
zation's inception last 
year, 
Pin-
chot has been the sole recipient of the 
hundreds of gallons of compost 
generated by members every month. 
When last measured, his burgeonipg 
compost heap was twelve feet long, fo:Ur 
feet wide, and over two-and-a-half feet 
tall. Pinchot uses the compost to help 
fertilize vegetables on his small private 
farm in Guilford, feeding his family 
with the produce he grows. 

Although Pinchot. may seem a bit 
hard to satisfy when it comes to 
organic matter, asserting that "I always 
want more compost," the Coop has an-
nounced that he is "more than willing 
to share" his collection of decomposing 
food scraps. At least one other Coop 
member, Professor Bill Burch of the 
Forestry School, plans to take h im up 
on the offer. 

Seashore says that the Coop's ar-
rangement is not ecologically flawless, 
pointing out that those who use com-
post would ideally produce it them-
selves. Still, she feels that "all these 
things should be done in the end 
because they're fun and they bring peo-
ple together." She would like to see the 
Coop renamed The Leftovers Alliance 
and imagines the perfect compost run 
as an affair which would include capes 
for all participants, a blaring red siren, 
and a mounted compost bucket for the 
roof of the van "like those rotating 
K entucky Fried Chicken buckets."