Publication date: February 2003
Volume: 35
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD**
- PUBLISHER: Eric Rut/tow
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: DaniLI!UuvrPINIAn
- MANAGING EDITORS: jmiaz Cohm, Mattluw UndnwooJ
- DESIGNER: David &uthwdJ
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Florrt Lichtman
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Michtul &ibel
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Santi4go Mostyn
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: jacob Bl«hn; Clin/Qn Corro/1
- ASSOCIATE DESIGNER: Jessica Chang
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Kathryn MalizUt
- WEB EDITOR: Michul Addison
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGERS: Mattlxw Pattnsm~, Vzaoria TruschCI


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- FEATURES
- The Exorcists - Clinton Carroll
- Better Homes and Gardens - Paige Austin
- The Gift and The Curse - Ana Munoz
- Seers and Profits - Maeve Herbert
- STANDARDS
- Editors' Note
- Points of Departure
- Essay: Medicine Man - Dagan Coppock
- The Critical Angle: The Future of an Illusion - jacob Bluhtr
- Endnote: Smoke IfYou Got 'em - Coco Krumm(


**Title: *
**Author: [N/A]**
**Page number(s): [2]**

:NICJ\'S JvlJ\~T'I' 
:fine §ourrnet :foodS 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
'Defi Cfieeses jresfi jruits ant:CVegeta6{es :Hot joods 
.luncfi 'Pizza Catering for a« Occasions 
Oreanic jootfs 
Monaay-Saturaay 7-7 
Sunaay 7-2 
603 Orange Street 
:New :J{aven, CT' 
06511 
(203) 787-5919 
:New VeCivery service 
to yare ana tlie 
(jreater :New J{aven .Jlrea!


**Title: Grant and Fellowship Opportunities**

Grant and Fellowship Opportunities 
at the 
Yale Center for International 
and Area Studies 

Funding for 2003-2004 is available for Yale University undergradu-
ate, graduate and professional students interested in international 
and area studies-related research and study, including dissertation 
and pre-dissertation research, language study, summer study and 
travel, and summer internships. 

Application deadlines are fast approaching. 

For information and applications, visit www.yale.ed u/ycias/grants 
or stop by Luce Hall, 34 Hillhouse Avenue. 

Larisa Satara, Fellowships Coordinator, is available to answer 
questions at 436-4203 or at larisa.satara@yale.edu. 


**Title: The New Journal Staff**

~ 
f YALE CEN T ER FOR INTER N ATIONAL AND AREA STUDIES l 
.. 

PUBLISHER 
Eric Rut/tow 

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
DaniLI!UuvrPINIAn 

MANAGING EDITORS 
jmiaz Cohm, Mattluw UndnwooJ 

DESIGNER 
David &uthwdJ 

PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Florrt Lichtman 

BUSINESS MANAGER 
Michtul &ibel 

PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
Santi4go Mostyn 

, 

AssoCIATE EDITORS 
jacob Bl«hn; Clin/Qn Corro/1 

AssociATE DESIGNER 
Jessica Chang 

RESEARCH DIRECTOR 
Kathryn MalizUt 

WEB EDITOR 
Michul Addison 

CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGERS 
Mattlxw Pattnsm~, Vzaoria TruschCI 

Suff 
Awtin • ~ 
Hcrbut • Admn Hopkins 
Coco Krumme • Ana Mu.fiox • Helen Philips 
Parridt Casey Piru • Sop~ IWcman • Nadia Sussman 
Ellen Thompson 

Mtmbm DUi Dirmm 
Emily Bazdon • Jo.hm Civin • Pet(!' 8. Coo~ 
Tom Griggs • Anya K.amcnctt • Brooks Kdley 
Jennif(l' Piru • Henry Schwab • Eli:abub S~ 
David Slilh • Frtd Strebeigb • Thomas StrOng 
John Swaruburg 

A41lism 
Rkchard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conruff 
Ruth Connilf • Elisha ~ 
• Julia Pluton 
lau= Rabin • Stcmt Weisman • Oarucl Ytrg~n 

Fnnu/s 
Sec¥< &1lou . A-n M. Bcard.JL. lila.~ 8cnocn 
Edw.rd 8. 8cftn<tt. jL ' Edw.rd 8. 8cnocn llJ 
hal s. 8cnocn • Ridoard Blow • Manila linN 
Jay ear,..,. • o.phnc a... • Jooh em.. 
Jonadw> M . Oadt • c-- Clem<no • Elioha Cooper 
!\our B. Coopa • AD4y Coun • M... ~ 
Albatj. Fa. . Mos. HDW2rd fox. O.nd """-" 
Gcoffi<y Fned • SlacnriA Goldman • Dn.d Gooallocrs 
T- Griep • s..p- Hen- • Joe< Kamcaoky 
l!ooob Kdlcy • RDp:r JG.w..od • Lcww E. l..dvmM 
JUa t.oo.c • E. Nobles t.oo.c • Martha E. Nal 
!\our N<ill • Hoonnl H. N<wma.. • Sean 0'8nm 
Julie .......• Lcww and ,_ Plan • Jooh Plaua 
Julia "'- • l.awa> IUbu> • Faufu c. lluodol 
Sruan RoM. Mccn aacl Anhur Sop • Rltl.nl ~ 
w. Hampma Sida. '--~ 
Elizabab and WillwD ~ 
Adina Pros-o and David Sulsman • Tbom.oa Suoac 
Elizabab Tatt • DWd Ycrpo and Aacdo Sun• Yerpn 


**Title: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): [3]**

TheNewJournal 
Volume 35, Number 4 
February 2003 

FEATURES 
16 
11 The Exorcists 
It takes more than chemistry to master childhood psychosis. 
by Clinton Carroll 

16 Better Homes and Gardens 
A teenage dealer is exiled by neighborhood families-including his own. 
by Paige Austin 

20 The Gift and The Curse 
The makers of OxyContin stem abuse of their drug, but their atonement goes only 
so for. 
by Ana Munoz 

26 Seers and Profits 
Can you overcome a gambling dependency by cheating the odds? 
by Maeve Herbert 

STANDARDS 
4 
5 
32 
34 
38 
Editors' Note 
Points of Departure 
Essay: Medicine Man by Dagan Coppock 
The Critical Angle: The Future of an Illusion by jacob Bluhtr 
Endnote: Smoke IfYou Got 'em by Coco Krumm( 

THa Nnr JoullNAl. is published fivt times during tbt acadtmic ytar by THE Nr:tr jOURNAL at Yale, Inc., P.O. Box }4}1 Yale Sation, N~ Haven, CT o6s>o. Offi~ address: 19-45 Broadway. Phone (103) 432· 
'9S7. Email: mj@y:alc.edu. All coments copyright 1003 by TH£ Nr:tr JoullNAl. at Yale, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Rq>roducrion eithes in whole or in pan without written permission of the publisbcr and editor in 
chit£ is prohibited. While this magazine is published by Yale CoUtgc srudents, Yale Uni""nity is nO< responsible for its contents. &Yen thousand fi"" hundred copies of each issue arc distributed fret to members 
o( the Yalt and N~ Ha""n community. Subscriptions are available to those outside the area. Rates: One year, st8. Two ytarS. S}:t. THE Nr:tr JoullNAl. is printed by Turley Publications, Palmer, MA; booltlcecping 
and billing services are provided by Colman Booklceeping ofN~ Haven. THE Nr:tr )OUilNAL encourages leners to the editor and comments on Yale and N~ Hnen issues. Write to Editorials, }4}1 Yale Station, 
New Ha_..,n, CT o6s>n. All letters for publication mwt include address and signature. We rcsetVe tht right to edit aU lmm for publication. 



**Title: Drug Court Dropout**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I N THE WEEKS LEADING UP TO LAST YEAR'S 
gubernarorial election, two-term Governor 
John Rowland found himself the object of 
an unlikely attack given his usual populari-
ty in hard-on-crime-soft-on-caxes circles. 
Rowland, speaking on the record with a 
reporter, had dropped the word "decrimi-
nalization" inro a discussion of state drug 
policy. When ami-crime crusaders, the 
media, and strategists for the Democratic 
opponent seized on the (apparently taboo) 
term, Rowland's handlers went into dam-
age-control mode: The Governor would 
never, 
they 
assured, 
"decriminalize drug use"; he 
meant simply that "the state 
must work harder" to keep 
non-violent drug offenders 
in rehabilitation and out of 
prison, where jailhouse drug 
dealers far outnumber viable 
treatment options. 

And indeed, Rowland's 
record on that front was 
strong. 
Until 
last year, 
Connecticut boasted one of 
the nation's most extensive 
networks of drug courts. 
Busted users could sidestep 
jail by submitting them-
selves to the authority of a 
lone judge who would guide 
them thr~ugh local rehabilitation pro-
grams, checking on their progress in 
biweekly meetings. When a urine test or a 
subsequent arrest revealed continuing use, 
he could wag a stern, fatherly finger and 
impose a tailor-made punishment, fash-
ioned in consult with counselors, lawyers, 
and social workers familiar with the indi-
vidual case. 

The drug courts were, in their day, a 
principal component of a statewide alterna-
tive sentencing program that sought to 
replace the principle of retribution with the 
principle of rehabilitation. Last year, how-
ever, New Haven's drug court closed its 
doors. Ir was the vicrim of a statewide bud-
gee crisis that is forcing the Republican 
FEBRUARY 2003 
governor to cut almost $1.5 billion in state 
services. As the slashing and burning con-
tinued, the in- and out-patient rehabilita-
tion clinics that treat court-sentenced users 
were similarly hard hit: In November, 
Rowland announced that he would cut 
funding for alternative sentencing pro-
grams by over $5 million, ten percent of 
their total annual budget. "These were pro-
grams operating on the fringe of their bud-
get," says Nora Duncan, who oversees 
alternative incarceration centers for the 
Connecticut Association of Nonprofits. 

"There was no fat to trim, so they'll have to 
cut beds or dose down." 

Since its launch in 1990, some 50,000 
non-violent offenders have passed through 
Connecticut's Alternative Incarceration 
Program. Most of them were facing prison 
for the first time, and many were addicts 
driven to criminality by an expensive 
habit-in short, exactly the type of offend-
er once herded into perpetually overflow-
ing prisons in astounding numbers. 

Alternative sentencing diverted most non-
violent drug offenders (excluding those 
involved in heavy dealing) into indepen-
dent, state-funded treatment centers, 
where they could serve our their sentences 
in rehabilitation sessions, therapy groups, 
job training, and community service pro-
jects. The idea was to keep people away 
from the hardening environs of a correc-
tional facility and instead ship them, as one 
New Haven drug counselor puts it, "out 
into society as full people and productive 
citizens." 

The results were unequivoca11y posi-
tive. In th e regular prison system, recidi-
vism rates for drug offenders are astronom-
ical; a recent Department of Justice study, 
for example, found that 66 percent of drug 
convicts are back in court within three 
years of their release. In New 
Haven, treatment centers like 
the APT Foundation-the 
state's second largest rehabili-
tation facility-report that 70 
percent of patients who com-
plete its program stay not 
only out of jail, but clean as 
well. "It doesn't matter if 
they're forced by a judge ro 
come," explains Allen Brown, 
APT's Chief Executive Officer. 

"No matter how you got into 
it, if you complete your treat-
ment, you're many times 
more likely to stay clean than 
someone who didn't." 

- APT ca1ls itself a "thera-
peutic community" for drug 
offenders. "It's an intense experience," 
Brown says. "In a program like ours, you're 
committed to a treatment process, and you 
have to work at it. Every once in a while 
someone will say, 'I'd rather be in a prison, 
this is too hard.'" In fact, APT has built itself 
into a mostly self-sustaining facility, where 
patients early in the treatment process work 
various jobs in the building, which serves, 
in addition to its 100 residents, 1500 non-
resident users, half of whom are there at the 
behest of a court. As patients "become 
more stable and more able ro cope," they 
go out into the community to perform ser-
vice or hold down a job, the proceeds of 
which 
subsidize 
their 
treatment. 
Eventually, Brown claims, they "reenter 
society as healthy, employable members of 
a community." 

As the effects of budget cuts trickle 
down from state agencies,, the damage to 
centers like APT is becoming evident. 
According to Duncan, almost 200 alterna-
tive incarceration slots have already been 
eliminated, and there are rumblings that 
several treatment centers may have to close. 
"Social ramifications aside, this is going to 
mean ·a strain on the prison system," she 
notes. It's hard not to see the cuts as a pecu-
liar kind of policy regression: Alternative 
sentencing was adopted by pragmatists 
searching for a solution to prison over-
crowding, not bleeding hearts preaching 
the virtues of compassion. Curiously, we're 
back where we started: slashing alternatives 
and sending non-violent drug offenders 
back into overflowing prisons. 

What is most ironic about Rowland's 
spending decisions, however, is that centers 
like APT have proven not only that they can 
handle drug cases better-their recidivism 
rate for drug offenders, after all, is barely 
half the figure of the state prison system-
but that their services carry a lower price 
tag as well. On average, an alternative 
incarceration program spends $7,000 on a 
patient in a year. It costs, on the other 
hand, $25,000 a year to keep someone 
behind bars. (Despite a fourfold increase, 
from $100 million to $400 million, in 
spending on prisons over the course of the 
1990s, Department of Corrections officials 
still complain of massive shortfalls.) 

Government estimates confirm the long-
term financial benefits: Connecticut has 
saved over $619 million by diverting rela-
tively paltry sums from prisons to treat-
ment centers. 

But the rwisted political logic of bud-
get cuts, crime fighting, and the War on 
Drugs supercedes whatever fiscal and 
human benefits alternative sentencing pro-
vides. Brown offers a scholastic analogy: 
"When cuts are happening, prisons are like 
high-school football programs. They're 
always the least vulnerable. Drug treatment 
is like the marching band or advanced 
physics"-the first thing to go. Ultimately, 
few people disagree with the wisdom of 
alternative sentencing. But unfortunately, 
in sound-byte form, "tough on crime" 
always beats out "smart on drugs." 

-Daniel Kurtz-Phelan


**Title: Naughty Professor**
**Author: Emily Lodish**
**Page number(s): 6**

LET's CALL HIM PROFESSOR BROWN. In col-
lege, he had no trouble cutting loose. It was 
the late 1970s. Drugs and college just went 
together like rama, lama, lama, kadingy, 
kading-a-dong. The drinking age had not 
yet been raised. There was a joint at every 
party. He smoked a lot of pot. Most people 
did. It was a "climate of experimentation'': 
Cocaine, 
opium, 
hash, 
mushrooms, 
nitrous, acid-in fact, lots of acid. To this 
day, Professor Brown values every drug 
experience he ever had; he has no regrets. 

Three decades ago when he looked 
around en route to class, he saw drugs and 
lots of people doing them. Now, loo.king at 
students from the flip side of the academic 
equation, Professor Brown sees a very dif-
ferent scene: We fit comfortably inside the 
box and aim to strive within its bounds; 
few of us make bold statements with our 
appearance; we are eager to please our pro-
fessors; and of course, few of us experiment 
with drugs the way he did. There is, 
accorCling to his gauge, an atmosphere of 
unquestioning acceptance and not much of 
a margin at a place like Yale. And if there is, 
to choose the margin is ~o choose that 
which has already faded-the countercul-
ture Professor Brown found so cozy has 
been co-opted and marketed. The main 
concern is no longer "to avoid selling out." 

Instead, Professor Brown sees students who 
are preparing themselves to sell out better 
and faster than their parents. 

Sitting at his desk for afternoon office 
hours, Professor Brown is dressed comfort-
ably in a gray turtleneck sweater that is just 
shy of business casual. With no students on 
hand with questions, he confesses that he 
wishes more of them would get sroned 
once in while. Or rather, he wishes that 
they would be the kind of kids who would 
get stoned more readily, and more readily 
question professorial authority as well. He 
suggests the same for those professorial 
authorities, whose "tight-ass attitude," in 
Professor Brown's words, keep them but-
toned up well into the night. He calls the 
academic career a "life of quiet despera-
tion." One of his colleagues once said that 
she finds the faces of those around her 
"marked by the books they haven't read." 

To be sure, Professor Brown is nostal-
gic for his acid-dropping days, but-after a 
respite during the Reaganite 198os-he's 
.. 
managed to reincorporate drugs into his 
life. As a Yale professor, he confesses that he 
has little time to relax and experiment, but 
his monthly marijuana ritual is a guaran-
teed way to unwind from the high stress 
and fast pace of the work day. Of course, 
Professor Brown still appreciates its other 
effects on his "pretty type A" personality-
getting in touch with the sides of himself 
that stay suppressed in the normal profes-
sorial existence. Simple things, like "the 
pleasure of inhabiting a body" and "the 
beauty of the world." 

Professor Brown recalls a wedding he 
attended not long ago. Seconds after the 
recepti~n began, he and his wife made a 
bee-line for the bar. The only people ahead 
of them in line were rwo old ladies. He was 
expecting them to order a couple of screw-
drivers. Something that goes down easy 
and eventually gets the job done. He was 
wrong. They ordered scotch. Straight 
scotch. He thought that was right on. 
Wasting time is never a good thing. 

So now Professor Brown smokes pot 
once a month, drinks in moderation, does 
ecstasy with his wife, and imbibes the occa-
sional cup of "poppy-pod tea," a very mild 
form of opium which he "imagine(s] is 
legal." When asked why he doesn't do more 
of the harder stuff like he did in college, he 
responds wryly: It probably has to do with 
access. 

-Emily Lodish


**Title: Save Another Drunken Bum**
**Author:  (No author listed)**

ON SEPTEMBER 29, 1902, Carrie Nation 
came to Yale to save souls. O ne of 
America's best known temperance leaders, 
Nation was notorious for her habit of nor 
only condemning saloons, but destroying 
them with a hatchet as well. She caused a 
stir wherever she went, and Yale was no 
exception. Accounts vary as to how long 
she stayed in New Haven, but it was cer· 
tainly long enough to make a lasting 
impression. Seven years later, ..she would 
write, "It is a school of vice to a greal 
extent .... The controlling party at Yale . · · 
will desolate and enslave our darling 
boys." 

For Nation, the demise of"our darling 
boys" was part of a larger problem. The 
whole country was steadily moving down 
the path to hell, and liquor-or "devil·

THE NEW Jou.RNAI-



**Title: Carry a Big Stick (and a Hatchet)**
**Author: Charlotte Howard**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
soup,"as she sometimes called it-wasn't 
Though this letter may have been written 
the only perpetrator. Tobacco, fraternities, 
by a prudish boy with a weak stomach, it is 
kissing, and low bust lines were all at fault, 
more likely that its author was a member of 
and it was her God-given mission to save 
a prankster society called The Jolly Eight. 
America from damnation. 
But either way, the prospect of exorcizing 
Nation first wielded her hatchet in a 
"devil-soup"from Yale was enough to bring 
Kansas saloon in January, 1901. At the peak 
Nation's imposing figure (she stood almost 
of her career, she was selling souvenir 
six feet tall in her prim black dress) to New 
hatchets for about fifteen cents a pop; and 
Haven. 
even when her credibility began to wane, 
After a brief stop at the Mayor's office, 
her unique methods and catchy battle 
where a smoking secretary convinced her 
cry-"Smash! Smash! For Jesus' sake! 
that the Mayor was incapable of saving the 
Smash!" -kept her in the news. In 1902, a 
Yale boys, she proceeded to the campus 
brief encounter on a .-----------,---------, itself-the 
training 
Hudson River Ferry 
grounds 
for 
the 
prompted 
her 
to 
demons of tomorrow. 
direct 
powers 
Accompanied by The 
towards saving college 
Jolly Eight and 
a 
boys. She was, accord-
throng of raucous stu-
ing to legend, so hor-
dents, Nation marched 
rifled to see a young 
to the steps of Osborn 
man chewing tobacco 
Hall, where Bingham 
that she squeezed his 
Hall now stands, and 
cheeks until he was 
cried to address the 
forced to spit it out. 
crowd. Around the 
With the bewildered 
country, Nation had 
student nursing his 
been greeted by a range 
red 
face, 
she 
of 
responses. 
One 
exclaimed 
tri-
saloonkeeper broke a 
umphantly, "There! 
chair over her head. A 
I've saved you!" 
more chivalrous bar-
College students 
tender sicked his wife 
around the country began to send her let-
on her. At Harvard, students followed her 
ters, asking her to exert her influence on 
around campus jabbing her with pipes and 
their wayward institutions. According to 
cigarettes. At Yale, students responded 
biographer Herbert Asbery, the following 
characteristically by-what else?-singing. 
letter brought Nation to Yale: 
Each time she tried to speak, they started to 
Dear Mrs. Nation: - As an ardent 
prohibitionist and an enemy of the 
liquor traffic, I feel obliged to bring 
to your notice some of the things 
that are served to the young men at 
Yale Dining Hall by the college 
authorities [including Claret Wind 
Punch, Cherry Wine Sauce, Apple 
Dumpling and Brandy Sauce, Roast 
Ham and Champagne Sauce, and 
Wine Jelly]. You will see how many 
of these dishes are served with 
intoxicating liquors as sauces. Yale is 
supposed to be a Christian College, 
but to give these poisons by consent 
of the college authorities is nothing 
more or less than starting them on 
the road to hell! Please give this 
matter your earnest attention and 
see if you cannot stamp this serpent 
OUt. 
wail, alternating between drinking songs 
and temperance ballads such as "Good-bye 
Boou"and "Down with IGng Alcohol." 
Understandably 
frustrated, 
allegedly asked a student, "What's the mat-
ter with these rummies? Don't they want to 
hear me?" The student replied, "They're 
drunk. They had ham with champagne 
sauce for lunch, and they haven't gotten 
over it yet .. " 
A discussion with Yale President Dr. 
Anhur T. Hadley left her un$3-tisfied (He 
had the audacity to say that "he thought 
the intoxicants were 'fruit juices,'" she later 
complained). So Nation indignantly 
returned to the mass of students waiting for 
her. She tried to deliver her speech again 
and again, but each rime she was greeted 
with the same response: a wild roar of song. 
Before she retreated, she allowed herself to 


**Title: Fuzzy Math**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 8**

CoNCERNED CITIZENS TAKE NOTE: The 
New Haven Police Department is cracking 
down on drugs in our city. Thousands of 
New Haven residents have been arrested 
for drug crimes the past several years. In 
1997, 2,061 citizens were arrested; in 1998: 
1,860; in 1999: 1,632; in 2000: 1,547; in 
2002: 1,311. Don't let these decreasing fig-
ures worry you-crime rates in the city 
have been dropping as well. In New 
Haven, 7 to 10 percent of the population 
is estimated to use drugs-putting the 
number of users in New Haven some-
where around 10,000. 
At Yale, however, there is still work to 
be done. Because the school claims that it 
has no idea how many students use drugs, 
the best estimates come from national sur-
veys. The Sourcebook for Criminal Justice 
Statistics found that about 35 percent of 
college students used drugs during 1999, 
2000, and 2001. Assuming Yale meers this 
estimate, approximately 18oo Yale College 
students used drugs over the past year. The 
Yale Police Department has maintained a 
8 
relatively low arrest rate for drug crimes. In 
1999, there were zero arrests for drug 
crimes. In 2000, there were also zero 
arrests. In 2001 there was a crime spree and 
the number of arrests surged to three-.6 
percent of the undergraduate population. 
This means that from 1999 to 2001, for 
every Yale student arrested for a drug crime 
there were approximately 1400 New 
Haveners arrested. To some extent this can 
be explained by the vast population differ-
ence. A better comparison is the number of 
estimated drug users arrested every year. In 
New Haven, 15 percent or so of the total 
estimated users have been arrested. At Yale 
.2 percent of the estimated users were 
arrested--during a good year. 
· 
The num~er of disciplinary referrals 
for drug violations didn't make up for this 
disparity. There was one referral by the Yale 
Police Department in 1999; none in 2000 
and one in 2001. Other colleges and uni-
versities in Connecticut had better luck 
when it came to enforcing the law. At 
Eastern Connecticut State University from 
1999 io 2001~ there were 20 arrests and 76 
judicial referrals for drug violations. At 
Fairfield University, there were only seven 
arrests from 1998 to 2000, put there were 
132 disciplinary referrals for drug viola-
tions. At Southern Connecticut State 
University, there were 6o drug violations 
cited from 1999 to 200. All three schools 
are smaller than Yale. 
-Flora Lichtman


**Title: Immaculate Deception**
**Author: Sophie Lutzman**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

AFTER A DANCE LAST OCTOBER, Jane's blind 
date started to come on very aggressively. 
"All of a sudden we were having sex. There 
was no condom. I asked, 'Did you come?' 
And he said, 'No."' He was lying. Five years 
ago, Jane would have faced an agonizing 
wait to find out if she was pregnant. 
Instead, Jane went to Yale University 
Health Services the morning after, took an 
emergency contraceptive, and did not get 
pregnant. 
In 1998, two kinds of emergency con-
traception, Plan-B and Preven, went on the 
us market. Taken within 120 hours of inter-
course, the pills prevent pregnancy by 
inhibiting ovulation, inhibiting fertiliza-
tion, or prohibiting a fertilized egg from 
.. 
implanting in the uterus. Emergency con-
traception aims to fill a big need: contra-
ceptives fail, people forget to use protec-
tion, and, in the worst cases, women don't 
have the choice to use protection. And it 
works. A study conducted last year by the 
Alan Guttmacher Institute, a reproductive 
rights agency based in New York, estimated 
that the availability of emergency contra-
ception accounted for a 43 percent decrease 
in the number of abortions performed 
nationwide. 
The Guttmacher Institute, however, 
also found that only one woman in ten is 
aware of emergency contraception, a dis-
tressing.finding given that half of all preg-
nancies are unintended. In New Haven, 
which has one of the highest teen pregnan-
cy rates in the state, school and public 
health officials have tried to counter this 
persistent ignorance by integrating infor-
mation on emergency contraception into 
high school health courses. This effort, 
however, is all too ofren undermined by the 
reality of women's reproductive care: 
Ideological battles have eclipsed the welfare 
of the patient as a primary concern. Anti-
abortion groups consider emergency con-
traception a form of abortion, and doctors, 
according to Kirsten Moore, the president 
of the Reproductive Health Tecnhologies 
Project, are in many cases not letting their 
patients know their options. In focus 
groups she conductS, most of the women 
involved say their doctors have never even 
mentioned emergency contraception. The 
Catholic-affiliated St. Raphael's Hospital, 
New Haven's second-largest health care 
provider, refuses to tell patients anything 
about emergency contraception. Even a 
rape victim will hear nothing of the option. 
Access to emergency contraception is 
often blocked because of censorship of 
medical information by groups with reli-
gious and political agendas. This month, 
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
will receive a petition from the makers of 
Plan-B 
over-the-counter 
status. 
"Approval is supposedly a nonpolitical 
process," Moore says. But the case, which 
will 
be 
evaluated 
by 
FDA's 
Reproductive 
Health 
Drug 
Policy 
Advisory Committee, leaves much room 
for worry. The committee was appointed 
by President Bush and includes Dr. W. 
David Hager, an oBIGYN who along with 
other members of the panel has strong ties


**Title: Stoner at Yale**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 9**

to anti-abortion groups like the Christian 
Medical Association and Focus on the 
Family. In the past, Hager has relied on 
religious beliefs to make medical deci-
sions, refusing birth control to unmarried 
women and recommending prayer to alle-
viate headaches and premenstrual syn-
drome. 
Jane was lucky. As a Yale University 
Health Services patient, she was able to 
take emergency contraception when she 
FEBRUARY 2003 
needed it. With David Hager and others 
who share his ideology heading federal 
health advisory panels, however, it is cer-
tain that other women in N'ew Haven will 
not have the same option anytime soon-
an option that, if medicine and not politics 
were truly at stake, would not be left to 
luck. 
-Sophi~ /Utsmzan

A GOOD MANY COLLEGE FRESHMEN know 
(or at least secretly hope) that when they 
first ~et foot on campus, an oversized plas-
tic cup of warm keg beer is destined to find 
its way into their hands, despite any state 
law or university regulation to the contrary. 
Yale is no exception. At every party, the 
obligatory "you must be at least 21 years of 
age ... " appears above far less discriminat-
ing kegs. But if Yale's policy on underage 
drinking is baffiing now, it was no less so 
three centuries ago. 
In keeping with the puritanical spirit 
of the day, the laws of 18th century Yale 
prohibited everything from attending a 
play to ordering a "strong drink," including 
beer and wine. A student with alcohol in 
his room literally paid for his crime: He 
was fined the price of the bottle. Yet despite 
these seemingly rigid regulations, the Yale 
College dining hall had no qualms about 
serving hard cider to students at meals. The 
threat of typhoid fever made cider prefer-
able to water, which was believed to carry 
the disease. But deadly fever or no, the 
damage was done, and Yalies have been 
imbibing ever since. 
For lchabod Academicus, the comic 
book creation of WT. Peters, an 1848 Yale 
graduate, drinking alcohol marked a Yale 
man's coming of age. lchabod begins inno-
cent, ambitious, and arrogant. But his 
experience at college soon squashes these 
tendencies. He throws up after his first 
cigar, fails his first test, and feels generally 
down in the mouth. In time, he enters the 
ranks of mature Yale men: He joins a soci-
ety, drains pints at the local saloon, and still 
manages to earn high marks. In fewer than 
40 pages, lchabod embodies the college 
ideal. 
While Yale policy may have frowned 
upon the lchabods of past generations, cer-
tain administrators hardly stood in the way. 
In 1939, former University President 
Charles Seymour even went so f.u as to 
mock undergrads for preferring milk to 
beer. This public accusation was Seymour's 
way of recruiting more spirited applicants 
from the West coast. 
But times changed, laws stiffened, and 
administrators were forced to sober up. In 
the 1950s the state notified the University 
that underage drinking, particularly in fra-
9 



**Master's Tea**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
WIIIWW. 
mww 
ww 
w 
Branford College 
Presents a 
Master's Tea 
Women's Bodies in the 
Public Space, 1991-2000 
with: 
INDIRA KAJOSEVIC 
Human Rights Activist 
February 24TH 
4 :00P.M. 
Master's House


**Yale's Shifting Sands: From Prohibition to Prescription**
**Author: Ellen Thompson**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

ternltles, would no longer be tolerated. 
University President A. Whitney Griswold 
could not comprehend why the state 
refused to distinguish between fraternity 
indiscretions and College-sanctioned social 
drinlcing: "I think we've all been too chick-
enhearted regarding these fraternities per 
se ... Can't some fine legal brain resolve this 
compromise? Isn't there a moral as well as a 
legal difference between giving carefully 
prepared and well-diluted punch to minors 
and selling them strong red eye under a 
license?" 

When fraternities were forced to shut 
down, the administration faced a new 
dilemma. The Council of Masters lament-
ed in 1956, "It is agreed that young men 
will learn to drir:1k and in the absence of 
fraternities will have to resort to such places 
of evil memory as Jigger McCarty's and the 
Paradise Inn, where liquor laws will also be 
ignored and where women of dubious 
virtue will be hanging around." 

As a result, fraternities were forced to 
obey liquo.r laws, or at least appear to obey 
them. A 1956 memo dictated, "either the 
fraternities will develop in more' WO(.th-
while ways than they have to dace . . . or 
they will turn within themselv.es and with-
er and die. Either alternative would be 
advantageous to the Yale community. To 
close them up on account of the bars would 
be ill-advised because the colleges them-
selves serve hard liquor." Rather than elim-
inate underage drinking, the enforcement 
ofliquor laws persuaded the administration 
co bring alcohol within the University's 
walls. 

With the alcohol question at least 
temporarily resolved, che administration 
was caught off-guard by che arrival of drugs 
on campus. In 1963, che administration was 
not prepared for the kind of public interest 
drugs would occasion. After Timothy Leary 
was arrested for passing out hallucinogens 
at Harvard, Yale invited a member of 
Leary's department, Michael Kahn, to join 
che Yale faculty. At Yale, Kahn lectured 
about the therapeutic uses for LSD and 
observed of Yale's attitude cowards drugs: 
"This is the Yale approach . . . cool, adult 
and scrupulous in its respect for academic 
freedom." 

Unforrunacely, 
the 
scace 
of 
Connecticut had a different concept of 
"cool" and "adult." Arrests rose, and police 
raided one Yale suite. As more Yalies land-
ed behind bars, some outraged students 
took notice. Future Deputy Secretary of 
State Strobe Talbott was first among them. 
Launching a personal crusade against che 
criminalization of marijuana in a 1967 issue 
of the Yak Daily News, Talbott wrote: 
"About one in four Yale students has 
smoked marijuana. It is a simple enough 
fact, but there are many ways of saying ic: 
You can say one in four Yale students has 
broken the law. . .. It is a bad law, but the 
city plans to enforce ic as though the 
American Way depended on ic .... The sit-
uation is going to be more and more a 
source of embarrassment to the University 
and mise!}' to the many students who use 
pot, until respected professionals--espe-
cially educational administrators, doctors, 
and lawyers--do all they can to get the law 
substantially changed or repealed." Strobe, 
we're still waiting. 
-Ellen Thompson 
THE NEW JoURNAL


**The Orcists**
**Author: Clinton Carroll**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

It takes more than chemistry to master 
ChildhOOd pSyChOSiS 
By Clinton Carroll 

I 
T IS MID-MORNING IN THE CHILD PSYCHIATRIC WARD at Yale-New 
Haven Hospital, and 15 children sit around a table silently weav-
ing placemats. Each mat is constructed in a methodical way by 
methodical little fingers-three incisions in a piece of black card-
board, then red, green, and yellow strips of paper woven through. 
T he number of possible patterns is astronomical, but almost every 
child has settled on the same design-red strip, green strip, yellow 
strip, repeat. 15 sets of fingers loop in, through, out, and back in. 
There is Juan, who hears voices. There is Shaina, a veteran of 
numerous foster homes, who is prone to violence. There is Jamal, 
who is manic. There is Dana, who likes to fight. Hardly anyone 
talks, and the ward moves as one plodding unit-loop, loop, study, 
loop, loop, study. The plain lighting, the floor of congruent tiles, 
the blank television screen, and the circle of near silent, smiling 
nurses-at this moment, the ward is as simple and uniform as the 
white walls lining its interior. 

The scene is so uneventful that I leave and re-enter the room 
several rimes. There is no activity in the hallway. The bedrooms are 
empty. T he kitchen is quiet. The collective life-force of the ward, 
one of the most vital and progressive psychiatric institutions in the 
FEBRUARY 2003 
world, is concentrated on one table and 15 sets of working fingers. 
First a red strip, then a green strip, then a yellow strip. Repeat. 
Every room in the ward is situated along a straight hallway. 
There is a classroom with a chalkboard and desks arranged in rows. 
Down the hall is a common room with an area for eating and an 
area for watching television. Salmon-colored couches and chairs are 
arranged in a loose semi-circle around the TV. Light streams in 
through windows that overlook a small parking lot. Further down 
the hall, there are eight bedrooms arranged in alcoves, which are 
numbered so children can be called and dismissed in groups. To the 
right of the reception desk, there is a small room with padded walls 
where children are taken in moments of crisis. 

At the end of the main hallway, there is a gallery of children's 
art. The pictures are not the work of madness, but the scribbles of 
children, more happy-faced sun~ and dancing animals than omi-
nous dark. Yet there is something troubling about the work. O ne , 
picture depicts a tree, drawn in green and orange slashes, being 
overtaken by a wave. "The Storm of Life" is written above the water 
in block letters. One might almost attribute the piece to a fourth 
grader pushed to draw something sad. But the lines are too blatant, 
II 

T
HE CHILDREN AT YALE-NEW HAVEN 
are among the sickest any doctor will 
ever see. They suffer from a range of 
disorders that extends well beyond the 
usual psychological babble. "This is the 
deep end of the swimming pool," as Dr. 
Andres Martin, medical director of the 
ward, puts it. The list of conditions treated 
at Yale-New Haven is long and varied, and 
when multiplied across gender, age, body 
type, and background, it is formidable: 
Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (oco), 
severe Attention Deficit Hyperactivity 
Disorder (ADHD), Oppositional Defiant 
Disorder, Conduct Disorder, depression, 
mania, autism, Post Traumatic Stress 
Disorder, Childhood Onset Schizophrenia. 
Because the ward at Yale-New Haven 
is a hospital, not a group home or clinic, it 
is able to accommodate children whose 
problems extend beyond the merely psychi-
atric. One girl named Robin, for example, 
was brought to the ward after undergoing a 
battery of physical tests. She was catatonic, 
and her doctors thought she might be 
1'2. 
suffering from encephalitis or epilepsy. 
When her tests came back inconclusive, 
Robin was admitted to the ward. Once 
there, she engaged in bizarre behavior, mas-
turbating publicly and humping doors. Dr. 
Martin and his team, perplexed, explored 
several possible explanations. Was she 
schizophrenic? Had she been abused? But 
when Robin became physically ill, these 
questions became irrelevant. She stopped 
swallowing. Her heartbeat grew irregular. 
New tests uncovered a deep-seated epilep-
tic focus in her brain. She was immediately 
given anti-seizure medication. Within days 
she was moving about on her own, but her 
mind was so addled she could not form 
new memories and had to be reminded of 
her actions and thoughts constantly. After 
living like this for a while, something raised 
her from the dead, and she slowly started to 
improve. By the time she left Yale-New 
Haven, she had regained 8o percent of her 
memory. She was keeping a journal and 
was expected to fully recover in time. 
Yale-New Haven dispenses every psy-
chotropic drug in the book. Stimulants.like 
Ritalin and Dexedrine are used to treat 
children with ADHD. Selective seratonin 
reuptake inhibitors like Prozac, Zoloft, 
Paxil, and Luvox are used to treat depres-
sion and anxiety. Mood stabilizers like 
Lithium and Depakote, among the 
most popular psychotropics in 
America, curb aggression and 
alleviate 
depression. 
Antipsychotics like Risperdal, 
Zyprexa, and Clozaril, an 
especially popular class of 
drugs in the ward, help soften 
aggression and psychotic symp-
toms like voices and visions. 
The liberal use of these med-
ications requires patience and know-
how, and the ward spends as much 
time detoxifying kids as giving 
them new drugs. "Kids will 
come here on six different med-
ications. . . . This is not sup-
ported by the medical liter-
ature," Dr. Martin told 
me. When children 
arrive at the ward, 
they 
are 
usually 
taken off of their 
old 
medications 
immediately. 
Once 
their systems are drug 
free, they are reassessed and their disorders 
are pinpointed. New medications are pre-
scribed, and progress is monitored. The 
process is slow and careful. Medicine is dis-
pensed at regular intervals, and every 
behavior from yawning to tantrums is 
noted in detail by counselors who spend 
every waking hour with the children. This 
system creates a highly controlled and sim-
ple environment, saturated with some of 
the strongest synthetics on the market. 

Most psychiatric wards, however, in 
no way resemble Yale-New Haven. If chil-
dren like Robin were not an exception and 
if drugs were universally handled in the 
way Yale--New Haven handles them, the 
story of child psychiatry would end right 
here. But the cost of such care is substan-
tial-almost $1,500 per child per day at 
Yale-New Haven, where the average child 
stays for 34 days-and over the last decade, 
hospitals around the country have been 
buckling under the financial burden. 

About half of the psychiatric beds for chil-
dren in Connecticut have been converted 
within the last four years. The only reason 
the Yale-New Haven ward is open is 
because the hospital is willing to lose 
money. Less renowned institutions are 
forced to close, and sick children are sent 
home. In the worst cases, the sickest are 
sent to adult mental hospitals; some stay 
for days in emergency wards, locked in 
rooms with minimal supervision. 

While caring for troubled children 
does not even approximate a money-mak-
ing venture, pharmaceutical companies 
have carved out a lucrative market in psy-
chotropics. In the last ten years, spending 
on in-patient care and out-patient clinics 
has dropped significantly, and spending on 
pharmaceuticals has skyrocketed. The sci-
ence of child psychopharmacology, howev-
er, is still in its infancy, and with pediatri-
cians prescribing more psychotropic drugs 
than ever, the field is getting sloppy when 
research has barely begun. Dr. Martin 
plainly acknowledges, "Drugs are cheaper 
than relationships." And drugs -do often 
work, in some cases very well. But health 
practitioners seem disturbingly eager to 
hasten their proliferation. As pharmaceuti-
cal companies storm the marketplace, 
many physicians wait with open arms, hop-
ing for a panacea that simply does not exist. 
Drugs have become the "quick fix" in a 
field where a quick fix may not be possible. 
THE NEW JouRNAL



**Title: The Child Psychiatric Ward at Yale-New Haven**
**Author: Clinton Carroll**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
HE CHILD PSYCHIATRIC WARD at Yale-
New Haven serves two distinct pop-
ulations. Thomas Black, Patient 
Services Manager at the ward, describes the 
two groups that fill its beds as "children 
with families and children without them." 
At any one time, about half the ward con-
sists of children with stable families who 
communicate frequently with doctors, visit 
the ward, and ensure that treatment con-
tinues for their children afrer they leave the 
hospital. The rest of the children are in the 
custody of the Department of Children 
and Families (ocP) or Protective Services. 
These children are the most difficult to care 
for, and are usually in the hospital the 
longest since placement is hard to come by. 
Residential facilities and subacute hospi-
tals-which lack the resources ofYale-New 
Haven Hospital but will ofren accept kids 
after they have completed treatment 
there-are almost always full; the waiting 
period for a free bed can be as long as four 
months. Foster families, meanwhile, rarely 
take in older children. Often the failures of 
this larger system undermine treatment. 
Shaina is a small, plump girl with dark 
eyes and wiry black hair. A motherly 
eleven-year-old, she spends most of her free 
time caring for the only five-year-old in the 
ward. Today she fills a bucket with water 
and dish soap and invites the child, a little 
boy with curly black hair and stern eye-
brows, to splash with her. The play gees out 
of hand, and both end up wet and soapy. 
Since she was taken away from abusive 
parentS as a baby, Shaina has been shuttled 
from foster home to foster home. It is now 
late afternoon in the ward, and she sics with 
the older children in group therapy. Even 
here she is the mother hen, first facilitating 
a discussio~ on the unacceptibilicy of ward 
gossip before launching into a brief speech 
on her own tragic history. Shaina has lived 
in six foster homes and remembers only 
one good caretaker-an old woman who 
listened to her. She does not know where 
she will end up, and at eleven she is already 
too battered to be optimistic. 
I am sitting in the room, listening. In 
my backpack, I have a report on child psy-
chiatry in Connecticut, and as Shaina spec-
ulates as to what her fate will be, I map it 
out step-by-step based on the numbers. 
Shaina will likely leave Yale-New Haven 
much better. She .will be functional and 
vigorous. She will probably be transferred


to a residential facility, where she will live 
for six months to two years, and then be re-
filtered into the foster care system. Just like 
her previous caretakers, her new parentS 
will keep her for a while and then discard 
her. Many of them will be older women 
who lack the energy to care for children, 
and the problems that landed her in the 
psychiatric ward will likely return. Like 
most children in DCP custody-who are six 
times more likely than their peers living at 
home to be prescribed psychotropic med-
ication-Shaina will likely be put on a reg-
imen of pills. In the foster care system, 
these drugs serve a regulatory function. 
They keep children manageable, and that is 
exactly what Shaina will be. That is, until 
she has her next breakdown. 


J 
AMAL HAS A SMILE that very nearly 
stretches from ear to ear. He is the 
type of kid you grin at in public, a 
firecracker, giddy and round. He is also one 
of the sickest children Or. Martin has ever 
seen. To hear Jamal speak is to listen to a 
cassette tape in fast-forward-his words 
slur together in mono-syllabic bullet fire 
that is at best comprehensible and at worst 
"word salad," utter nonsense. Jamal is the 
most manic child ever treated at Yale-New 
Haven, and the first approved for 
Electroconvulsive Therapy. The procedure 
works by sending electric current through 
highly localized areas of the brain. It oper-
ates under the assumption that a manic 
mind will re-equilibrate when given a jolt. 
The treatment, however, does not seem to 
have worked on Jamal, who sics at the 
lunch table, downing chicken wings with-
out comment or breath. 
He bobs his head as he eatS and goes 
from manic grandiosity to pouty defiance 
without warning. He is a mess, and love-
able like an alcoholic, stinking of sickness 
but so human it makes the heart sink. 
When lunch is over, I find Jamal dancing 
oucside of his room. Nelly is blasting from 
his headphones. He crosses one foot over 
the other, spins, gives a quick pelvic thrust, 
and scrunches up his face in tribute to the 
music and his own genius. One therapist 
laughs and whispers to me, "He's been 
doing that dance since he was a little kid." 
Most of the children are in communi-
ty meeting, and everything is running 
smoothly. But then there is a problem in 
the hallway. A twelve-year-old boy has 


emerged from his room, angry and flailing. 
He is brought down .by two nurses, his 
head pinned to the ground, eyes wide and 
searching. He struggles at first, and then 
acquiesces, relaxing his body as the nurses 
pick him up and walk hi~ to the padded 
room. As soon as the door is shut, the boy 
begins to pound loudly and rhythmically. 
"You fucking bitches!" One beat every two 
seconds. 


Half an hour later I am standing in the 
bedroom of the boy who was restrained. 
His name is Tyrone, and he sits at his desk 
writing in a journal, face calm, hair cleanly 
buzzed. He is urban-cool, with baggy jeans, 
an oversized t-shirt, and immacu-
late tennis shoes. Far from a kid It iS 
troubles. Until this happens, he will remain 
trammg in psychopharmacology. This is 
a cool train-wreck. 
minimization at its most potent, and evi-
Before lunch, the children line up sin-
denced by the sheer number of children 
gle-file. The meal is fried chicken, maca-
who show up at Yale-New Haven drugged 
roni, and green beans-a surprise, and 
out of their minds. It is easy for over-
everyone is excited. Some grumble about 
worked doctors to experiment on difficult 
having to wait, and a brazen few try to cut 
children: If mood stabilizers don't work, 
in line but are immediately sent back to 
try antidepressantS. 
their places by the supervising nurse. 


Last winter, a boy named Ryan was 
released from the ward at Yale New-Haven 
after a month of treatment. Ryan's prob-
lems began in preschool. His symptoms 
were elusive, and all the school could do 
was recommend he be evaluated by a psy-
chiatrist. His initial diagnosis was "neuro-
logical impairment," an ill-
easy for overworked doctors , defined disorder on the spectrum 
rocking in the corner, disheveled 
and aimless, Tyrone is the sort of 
boy you expect to find at a mall, 
picking up girls and high-fiving 
his buddies. He shakes my hand 
and shows me his writing, a sim-
• 
of autism and other Pervasive 
tO experiment On diffiCUlt Children: Developmental Disorders. Ryan 
If mood stabilizers don't work try also displayed classic ADHD 
' 
anti-depressantS. 
symptoms-restlessness, 
un- . 
tability, short attention span. In 
second grade, he was put on 
Ritalin. He took poorly to the drug, which 
not only did nothing for his ADHD, but also 
seemed to adversely affect his psychological 
state. He began to roll his head and devel-
oped oco. He became increasingly para-
noid, convinced that other children were 
out to get him, and was unable to concen-
trate in school. He developed an arm flap 
and became agitated whenever anyone 
pointed at anything. He was prescribed 
Adderall, Paxil, and a handful of other 
drugs to no avail, and fmally announced to 
his father, "I have to go the hospital." By 
this time, his parentS had collected a box of 
forms, signed and compiled by pediatri-
cians, pharmacistS, neurologists, and psy-
chiatristS, and still, Ryan was sicker than 
ever. 


ple treatise on his own frustrations. Tyrone 
is a badass living among tattered little ·chil-
dren, and, for this reason, he is the most 
tragic character of all. 


It is unclear what is wrong with 
Tyrone. Dr. Martin and I stand in the main 
hallway, watching him through a window. 
He is working on a project, his head low-
ered in concentration. He might be psy-
chotic. He is frequently disorganized and 
has an imaginary friend, a surprising fact 
considering his age and personality. (His 
friend, Tyrone told Dr. Martin, moved to 
California when he entered the ward, and 
wears basketball jerseys and his hair in 
braids.) Or Tyrone might simply have pro-
cessing difficulties, a problem that Dr. 
Martin likens to a learning disability: "If 
you have a reading disorder, and I ask you 
to paraphrase a difficult passage, you may 
give me a nonsensical answer ... and I may 
wrongly conclude that you are psychotic." 
Perhaps Tyrone cannot process directives, 
and his oppositional nature has formed as a 
result. 


IfTyrone is diagnosed as psychotic, his 
treatment will follow a normal trajectory. 
He will be given an anti-psychotic like 
Risperdal. If his problems are purely cogni-
tive, like a learning disability, he will be 
treated with educational therapy. The path 
to recovery is long in either case, and only 
days in the hospital, following routine and 
being tested, will reveal the nature of his 


group, and no one seems to notice when 
one chilq returns and another leaves. This 
is routine--the nurse giving out the med-
ications knows each kid's name, condii:ion, 
and favorite color. When routine turns to 
free-time, Jamal runs to his room and starts 
dancing. 


I 
N TREATING CHILDREN LIKE SHAINA, 
Jamal, and Tyrone, the biggest danger is 
reducing them to abstractions. "I can't 
tell you how many times I have asked 
about a child at a medical conference and 
received a haiku presentation: 'Johnny is 
13, he has oco, he is taking Risperdal, 
Ritalin, and Prozac,'" Dr. Martin told me. 
This kind of "patient minimization" is not 
a new problem, but with the mass extinc-
tion of long-term psychiatric facilities and 
the new aggressive drug market, it is 
becoming increasingly acceptable. In a 
2001 report compiled by the the Child 
Health and Development Institute of 
Connecticut, Connecticut Department of 
Mental Health, and Yale Child Study 
Center, it was found that in 1998 and 1999, 
45 percent of all psychotropic presecrip-
tions for children on Medicaid were filled 
by primary care physicians. This is partly 
due to the shortage of mental health spe-
cialises in Connecticut, and partly a reflec-
tion of the times-the state's most compli-
cated children are being seen by pediatri-
cians with heavy case loads and no formal 


Ryan entered the ward at Yale-New 
Haven on Halloween, his favorite holiday, 
and was immediately taken off his medica-
tions. Drug-free, Ryan became increasingly 
paranoid and began to hear voices. One 
voice told him to saw off his own head, and 
another demanded he say "fuck you" to 
God. 


Bur eventually his _condition 
improved. A new antipsychotic, Risperdal, 
kicked in, and he was given Luvox to calm 
down and help with his compulsions. 
Within a month, Ryan was able to gradu-
ate to the hospital's partial program, con-
sisting of school and minimal day the.rapy. 
and was functional for the . first time in 
years. 


This is not to say that Ryan got better. 
Mental illness is not dimensional, and 
Ryan still has problems. After receiving the 
best care in the world, he is merely func-
tional, not free. Dr. Martin offers an over-
looked caveat when describing this sort of 
outcome: "What people don't realize is that 
we give these drugs to kids so they can 
function, so they can go back home and 
attend school. They are not cures." In some 
ways, Ryan's story represents the best of 
child psychiatry: He was so crippled he 
could not attend school and was turned 
around in just one month. But he also rep-
resents a darker side of the field: It took bad 
drugs, emerging psychoses, problems at 
school, problems at home, and a box full of 
forms to finally get Ryan where he needed 
to be. 


The 
uncommon 
denominator 
between Yale-New Haven and most of 
child psychiatry is not access to drugs or 
number of doctors-it is time. It is the 
plodding nature of the ward, its structured 
days and slow pace and the patient dedica-
tion of its staff. that is indispensibly thera-
peutic. Dr. Martin will spend a week study-
ing Tyrone before assigning him a diagno-
sis. He will test him and piece together his 
history. He will start him on a medication, 
go slowly at first, and then speed things up 
if the drug is a match. Tyrone will get bet-
ter because monotony and routine work. 
And this is why in-patient psychiatric 
wards can never become obsolete-they 
afford structure and coherence to the lives 
of children who are, by defmition, incoher-
ent. 


When I first visited the ward, I expect-
ed, at the risk of seeming voyeuristic, to see 
spectacular sights-schizophrenic rages, 
panicked 
back-room 
conversations 
between doctors and nurses. But what I 
saw could have been a scene &om any 
school in the country. Only slower. One 
kid got a little upset and had to be disci-
plined. Another was hyper. Children tried 
to push in line to get food. Kids talked 
about their problems. And for one hour, 
the children at Yale-New Haven worked 
meticulously on a craft in absolute uni-
son-just the kind of slow motion and 
monotony that makes the ultimate case for 
child psychiatry as something much more 
than chemistry. 


**Title: A Teenage Dealer is exiled by neighborhood families -including his own**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A teenage dealer is exiled by 
neighborhood families 
-including his own 
F
EW AMONG THE CROWD that gathered in 
front of 209 
Rosette Street on 
November 12TH actually knew Quincy 
Smith. They had come to march in front of 
his mother's house because they knew his 
type. Since returning to the neighborhood 
lase spring, 19-year-old Quincy and his 
friends had occupied the front porch at 209 
Rosette, drinking, smoking, and selling 
drugs into the late hours of the night. 
Legally, Quincy was not even allowed to be 
there-his aunt, living upstairs, had filed a 
restraining order against him· several 
months earlier. Despite the growing tide of 
complaintS, his mother let him stay. The 
crowd was here to demand that Quincy 
move elsewhere. 

Holding candles and posters and 
chanting their demands-"freedom from 
drugs" and "safe streecs" -hundreds of peo-
ple marched in a circle in front of the drug 
dealer's house. At the center was the Smith's 
next door neighbor, Mark Colville, who 
lives with his wife, Luz, and children in the 
Amistad Catholic Workers' House. The 
Colvilles and another family founded the 
Amistad house nine years ago as a shelter 
organizing base for the people on 
Rosene Street, a decaying inner-city stretch 
a mile south of the Yale School of 
r-.I.VIle<litcu:te. When drug dealing on the block 
to spiral out of control last fall, the 
called on Elm City Congregations 
• 6 .u._.. ....... (ECco), an association of 18 city 
'CIIIUT•chc::s and non-profit groups, to round 
its members for an "action." 

Unlike most of the people who 
,.. .. ,.,, ...... up that night, Mark Colville knows 
Smiths personally. But that did not stop 
from seizing the megaphone and 
~n:1er1·1n2 Quincy to stop dealing or leave. 
crowd understood his frustration. 

Drug dealers bring more than drugs to a 
neighborhood-loud noise, broken bot-
des, and gang violence are inevitable 
byproduccs. A few days earlier a stray bullet 
had pierced the wall of the Colvilles' new-
born son's bedroom. 

The evening of the action was my first 
visit to Rosette Street. When I returned by 
the light of day I could see what the pro-
testers meant about the tokens of drug 
dealing. The sidewalk across from the 
Smiths' house was littered with empty 
liquor bottles; houses were boarded up; 
idling cars dotted the one-way street, giving 
the ominous impression of an active trade. 

Weeks after the march, I went back to 
find out whether the Smiths had finally 
turned out their deviant son, and to see 
how the Colvilles and the Smiths were get-
ting along in the state of mutual neighbor-
ly hatred that the rally had presumably 
engendered. As it turned out, though, once 
the dust had settled on Quincy's uncere-
monious expulsion, no one was more 
pleased to be rid of him than his own weary 
family. 

B
ARBARA AND DIANE SMITH look like sis-
ters, with slightly graying hair pulled 
back from tired, feminine faces. Before 
moving to 209 Rosette Street, they shared 
another house on Atwater Street in Fair 
Haven. When their landlord lost the lease 
there, the women immediately had co find 
someplace cheap. The brow"n house on 
Rosette Street with a sunken front porch 
and peeling paint was their best option. 
Barbara and her children had lived farther 
down Rosette Street before, but they had 
been forced to move after Quincy broke all 
the windows in that house, a stunt that 
landed him in juvenile hall until last 
spring. His move back home coincided 
with the family's return to their old neigh-
borhood, which was also home to Quincy's 
old friends. 

Diane has six kids. The youngest, 
John, is a year old. He has a strikingly full 
head of hair and is just beginning to string 
together tottering steps. Shortly before my 
visit, the oldest, IGta, had gotten an A on 
her AP European History midterm. She 
wants to study forensics, according to her 
mother, and she plans to go to the 
University of New Haven next year if the 
school offers her enough funding. "She 
used to want to be a pediatrician," Diane 
said with a chuckle. "But then she said she 
doesn't want to have to hurt people. 
Forensics is better because they're already 
dead." Barbara has four children besides 
Quincy, ages six, eight, 13 and 14. Peachy, a 
precocious eight-year old, is the only 
daughter. Three of the kids go to the 
Jebson Magner School, the same one 
attended by Mark and Luz Colville's kids 
next door. 

No one in the Smith house seems to 
miss Quincy. Day and night, Quincy's 
friends made the family's front yard a base 
for their own means of employment: using 
and dealing drugs, playing loud music, 
fighting amongst themselves, and fending 
off rivals from other streetS. "They hated 
it," recalled Diane, sitting on the couch in 
her sister's first floor living room. "They 
couldn't even go on rhe porch." Quincy 
himself was shot in the neck last summer 
while sitting in a parked car down the 
block. A few weeks earlier he had been 
beaten across the eyes with a wrench. (Luz 
Colville drove him to the hospital.) As the 
protesters chanted his name oucside the 
house in November, Quincy defended 
himself to a N~ Havm Register reporter: "I 
can't tell the drug dealers to leave. They'll 
shoot at me." 

Looking back, his mother speaks of 
her son's reckless habits with.quiet sympa-
thy. "I think in his own way he was scared," 
Barbara said. Yet Quincy, by all counts, was 
already beyond his mother's control, and 
the sisters' discomfort never thinned the 
crowd on the porch. "We could smell the 
gunpowder afterwards, right here on the 
porch," recalled Diane. The family was fre-
quently awakened by the ringing of the 
doorbell late into the night. When 
the police came, they were helpful 
and nosey at turns, but their depar-
ture was always marked by the 
quick return of Quincy's crowd, 

"If you don't have nobody to back 
you up, you belong to the · streets. 
You're going to die in the streets." 
with its stock of noise, drugs, and 
violence undiminished by the brief 
interruption. The presence of Quincy's 
mother didn't deter them either. "They 
knew exactly when I came and went. They 
knew my work schedule better than me," 
said Barbara incredulously. She locked any-
thing of value in the basement when she 
went out. She added, "It's nice to go 
Christmas shopping, and I don't have to 
worry about anything being gone when I 
come home." 

Barbara's solution was to throw up her 
hands and ignore the problem, remaining 
doggedly loyal to her son until the protest-
ers from ECCO arrived on the block, bring-
ing news vans, policemen, and a represen-
tative from the Livable City Initiative with 
them. After that, Quincy could no longer 
defy his aunt's restraining order by staying 
in the house. "He don't got no choice; he 
knows what's at stake," said his mother. 

Barbara expressed a vague hope that 
her son might join a city program to find a 
job and finish school, but her words 
sounded like the tired prayer of a mother 
with no idea what else to say. "I've got four 
other kids I've got to take care of, and 
they're trying to better themselves," she 
added. She is hopeful that her other sons, 
all avid basketball players in ECco's winter 
basketball league, will not follow in 
Quincy's footsteps. Barbara's only daughter, 
Peachy, is bright and talkative. Her cousin 
Alonna cuts a more staid figure. When 
Peachy declared her intention to marry a 
rich man, Alonna announced, "I'm not 
going to have kids. I'm going to adopt kids 
that are poor and need a home." 


T
HE FIRST TIME I WENT to the Amistad 
Catholic Workers' House next door, 
shortly after the action in November, the 
crowd was thin and none of the kids 
seemed too excited about the corn and 
chicken breasts on the table for dinner. The 
second time, the dining room was filled 
with over a dozen people, and the house 
had the air of a jovial winter retreat. 

Anyone is welcome to join the residents of 
the Amistad House for a meal; some of the 
guests that night, like James Davis, live at 
the house full-time while they beat a thank-
ful retreat from what the directors deem 
the life of sin. 

While Luz handles the cooking, Mark 
is generally busy planning and carrying out 
"community actions," targeting everything 
from war in Iraq to budget cuts for city ser-
vices to neighborhood drug dealers like 
Quincy. 

In the living room of the Amistad 
House, Mark still keeps the sign that he 
used to drive Quincy away this fall. It is a 
large white posterboard with writing in 
black marker: "THEY'RE DEALING DRUGS 
HERE!" When drug dealers appeared out-
side 209 Rosette Street two days after the 
initial rally, Mark began marching in front 
of the house by himself with his poster in 
hand. When Diane recalled the incident 
she added the obvious conclusion: "He's 
crazy." 

Since the one-man protest, the drug 
dealers have disappeared. The Colvilles 
came to the neighborhood to effect 
changes just like that, though they 
acknowledge that the effeets are ofren 
short-lived. "In this neighborhood and 
neighborhoods like this there's a lot of tran-
sition," Mark explained. The drug dealing 
and violence are endemic to the area, con-
tinually reinvigorated by waves of newcom-
ers who bring their trade along with their 
furniture. "Most people's solution to this is 
to try to make enough money to move out 
of the neighborhood." But families like the 
Smiths are swept in on a tide of eviction 
notices and bad luck; most of them prefer 
to shutter their windows and wait to be 
washed back out. "So every year is like an 
adventure," said Mark ruefully. 

Even Quincy used to come to the 
Amistad house. In recent months, he 
appeared a few times while high on drugs 
and told the Colvilles that he wanted to 
end his destructive lifestyle. Invariably, his 
resolve was gone by the next morning. "A 
lot of dealers used to come to tutoring 
here," sighed Luz wistfully. "I don't know 
when they decided they'd make more 
money drug dealing." Mark cut in abrupt-
ly: "And it's true." Given the poor 
quality of local schools and the lack 
of well-paying jobs throughout the 
city, he said, one might argue that the 
boys did have more to gain from hus-
tling than tutoring. "Here people 
grow up with the assumption that the 
system won't work for them. It's not 
designed to work for them," said Mark. 

But, as the Colvilles know, miracles are 
not impossible. James Davis, who has lived 
with them in the Amistad house for the last 
eight months, used to deal drugs on the 
same streets that Quincy now calls home. 
After his years of hustling and stints in jail, 
the police knew Davis by name and were 
quick to admonish him against loitering. 
"I'd tell them, I ain't got nowhere to go," he 
recounted after dinner at the Amistad 
house, watching Luz help Elizabeth with 
her homework. "It was about getting girls, 
getting money, and getting cars. That's it. 
We'd say, 'Stay fresh.' That's what you've 
got to do to stay fresh." Exiled from his 
mother's house nearby because of his rela-
tionship with his step-father, Davis spent 
most of his nights in the basement or stair-
well of a retirement home on Dewitt Street 
that he and his friends would break into for 
shelter. Because he did not get along with 
his stepfather, Davis, like Quincy, was not 
welcome at home. He could find only one 
alternative. "The streets are always open. 
The streets never dose. The streets always 
accept newcomers; they don't discriminate. 
If you don't have nobody to bac!t you up 
you belong to the streets. You're going to 
die in the streets," he said. "I stopped 
because I'm not ready to die yet." 

HERE IS SriLL HOPE, OF COURSE, that 
things will turn out as well for Quincy. 
Ecco's lead organizer, Pat Speer, said lacer 
that the little follow-up that was done with 



**Title: The Aftermath of ECCO Actions**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the Smiths was more than most targets of 
ECCO actions receive. "We've never paid 
this much attention to the aftermath before 
because it's not our business. Ecco is not a 
social work agency," he said. Still, the 
Colvilles' intimacy with their neighbors left 
them little choice but to take note of the 
aftermath. An ECCO pastor, the Reverend 
Scott Marks, went to the Smiths' home to 
offer his help to Quincy, ironically, on the 
day after the ECCO rally had kicked him 
out. Quincy of course was not in, and 
Marks's words seemed wasted on Barbara, 
who said she wanted to see her son reform 
but doubted that anyone could make him 
do it. Hoping to help Quincy join Job 
Corps or another outreach program, Marks 
gave Barbara his phone number and called 
her once afterwards. She did not respond. 
When I visited, Barbara was still talk-
ing about the possibility of Quincy joining 
Job Corps. With her son dividing his time 
between friends' houses and only returning 
home for occasional, illegal visits-"when 
he needs clean clothes"-Barbara seemed 
to have few other aspirations for her son to 
latch onto. "I really, really tried to convince 
his mother that she needed to help me to 
get this meeting set up with Quincy," 
Marks said later. "Basically she just doesn't 
have any control and that was clear." The 
blame does not lie with Quincy's mother 
alone, he added. Single mothers in New 
Haven fuce an almost insurmountable bur-
den just trying to pay rent with low wage 
service jobs, let alone spend time with their 
children. "That means there's going to be 
some hustling, part time job here, part time 
job there," explained Marks. 

Marks did not agree that Quincy had 
been ill-served by the community activists 
who hollered him off Rosette Street in 
November. Quincy's lifestyle left no other 
choice-if not for his departure, Quincy's 
neighbors would have wimessed his violent 
demise at the hands of other young men 
resigned to life on the streets. "I've been on 
the street and stood over the bodies of guys 
who've had that happen to them," Marks 
said resolutely. "Then you can rally all you 
want to but nothing is going to bring them 
back." 

Paige Austin, a freshman in Davenport 
Colkge, is on the staff o[TNJ. 
F£BRUARY 2003 


**Title: The Makers of OxyContin Stem Abuse of Their Drug, But Their Atonement Goes Only So Far**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20**

THE MAKERS OF OXYCONTIN STEM 
ABUSE OF THEIR DRUG, BUT THEIR 
ATONEMENT GOES ONLY SO FAR 
2.0 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title:  OxyContin: Maine's Rural Pain Reliever of Choice**
**Author: Ana Munoz**
**Page number(s): 21**

BY ANA MUNOZ 
FEBRUARY 2003 
M
ARK I<INZLY STARTED DRINKING WHEN he was seven years old. 
He wanted to change the way he felt, and when he eyed the 
cool lines of a liquor bottle it seemed an obvious place to start. This 
youthful experiment launched a 2o-year career in drug abuse. At the 
height ofKinzly's addiction he used anything he could get his hands 
on-crack, heroin, prescription drugs. Addiction bankrupted him 
and spawned a complementary nihllism. He moved to Cumberland 
County, Maine, to work as a commercial fisherman, one of the 
most dangerous jobs in America. Trips lasted for days at a time, and 
Kinzly spent his winters bent at the waist and knees, hauling trawls 
loaded with 20-pound sea bass. Fortunately, Kinzly already knew 
how to ease the pain of the ocean's beating. "When you're in the 
middle of the Atlantic in February it's pretty fucking cold and tak-
ing a narcotic can really help," he recalls. 

Maine includes some of the poorest rural areas in the country. 
Work for many Mainers is physically excruciating. They stoop to 
rake blueberries, stoop to chop pine trees, or, as Mark did, stoop to 
pull 6o-pound lobster traps out of So-foot waters. When they need 
to self-medicate, instead of turning to urban drugs like heroin and 
cocaine, Mainers more often go to their doctor's office or local phar-
macy, or they just open a medicine cabinet stocked with orange 
cylinders of prescription drugs. Lately, rural Maine's pain reliever of 
choice has been OxyContin, a powerful new opiate first released in 
1996. 

Anyone who watched television or read the newspaper could 
hardly have missed it: 2001 was the year of OxyContin. In the 
spring, a group of young men wearing baseball caps and bandanas 
over their faces held up a dozen Boston pharmacies and demanded 
OxyContin at gun-point. The Boston Globe carried a dozen articles 
on the robbery, and named OxyContin "the hottest drug on the 
street." On July 29, a cover story in the Nnu York Tima Magazine 
followed addicts in Man, West Virginia, where every trailer seemed 
to·be a drug den, and every Medicaid recipient a hardened dealer of 
"hillbilly heroin." On back-to-back nights in December, css's 48 
Hours and MTV's True Lifo series showcased Maine srudent Troy 
Swett's futile efforts to kick his OxyContin habit. Much as cocaine 
and crack had in the 1980s, OxyContin was revolutionizing drug 
habits. It promised to ravage the nation. 
21 



**Title: The OxyContin Epidemic**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The press quickly identified the mastermind behind America's latest drug epidemic: Purdue Pharma of Stamford, Connecticut, the pharmaceutical company that manufactures OxyContin. Purdue Pharma's aggressive marketing campaigns, according to cnucs, misrepresented OxyContin as an abuse-resistant miracle drug. In visits to doctor's offices across the country, field representatives pitched OxyContin not just to anesthesiologists and oncologists, doctors who rypically treat severe pain, but also to family doctors running small, private practices. Purdue Pharma ran full-page advertisements in mainstream medical journals like the journal of th~ American M~dical Association, an unprecedented tactic for pitching an opiate pain reliever. Underestimating OxyContin's power, doctors over-prescribed it, saturating communities with a very powerful drug that was easy to abuse. 

In the summer of 2002, now twelve years clean, Mark Kinzly returned to rural Maine. This time, however, he came as a researcher, part of a Yale team investigating OxyContin abuse in the state. Over the last few years, emergency medical technicians and police have noticed an alarming increase in overdose deaths in the state. Last December, the state medical examiner validated what had been just a hunch, reporting a 500 percent increase from 1997-2002 in accidental overdoses, 17 percent of which were attributable to prescription drugs. Nancy Green, a midwife from tiny Calais, Maine, testified before a Senate panel that ten of the 40 babies she had delivered in 2001 were born suffering from opiate withdrawal. More people were dying from, and being born with, drug addiction. 

Bur OxyContin's exact role in the epidemic was unclear. Up until last summer, reports of wide-scale OxyContin abuse remained anecdotal-an MTV story on some strung-out prep school kids, a country midwife's stories about shivering OxyContin babies. The Yale researchers would collect objective data and then organize it in a scholarly analysis of OxyContin and opiate use rates in Maine. Kinzly and his colleagues intended to hit the streets to talk to doctors and police officers. More importantly, the investigators would find drug users themselves and talk to them about their habits. Kinzly thought that given his long personal history with drug use, addicts would trust him, and he would easily get the information his team needed. But often times, especially in rural Maine, the addicts he found refused to talk. Maine's drug users didn't trust Mark Kinzly because Mark Kinzly's study was funded by the enemy: Purdue Pharma.


FOR MOST OF THE 20TH CENTURY, the medical establishment confined opiates-familiar drugs like heroin and morphine, as well as a slew of more obscure formulations-to cancer wards and field hospitals. Opiates are by far the most powerful of all pain medication, but their effectiveness also makes them one of the most addictive. Government regulations long kept opiate-based medicines locked inside hospitals to prevent mass addiction. 

But during the 1980s, pharmaceutical companies and patient advocacy groups organized a campaign asserting the rights of pain victims to access more effective treatment. Purdue Pharma was at the forefront of this movement. It had invested millions of dollars to develop new kinds of pain drugs, and it made equally generous contributions to activist associations like the American Pain Association to kickstart the lobbying effort to ensure that government regulation didn't keep its product out of the hands of consumers. The company maintained that to treat pain effectively, drugs had to contain opiates. Through initiatives like an interactive website called "Partners Against Pain" launched in 1994, Purdue Pharma trumpeted the power of opiates and channeled the growing demand for pain relief into a cry for more access to opiate-based medications. 

In the heat of this campaign, Purdue Pharma gained a powerful ally. Doctors would no longer be a medical paradox. The company believed it had harnessed opiates' power to relieve pain while diffusing their potential to foster addiction. By 2000, OxyContin was the number one selling opiate painkiller in America. Last year, gross sales totaled $1.5 billion. 

But as sales mounted, drug users discovered OxyContin's Achilles' heel. Crush the tablets, and the clever time-release system falls apart. Recreational drug users began snorting and injecting pulverized and dissolved OxyContin powder for an immediate, powerful high, one comparable to that from heroin. (One drug counselor told me that a recovering addict described the OxyContin high as equivalent to taking 50 doses of percocet.) Because OxyContin is commercially distributed to pharmacies across the United States, it does not require extensive illegal distribution networks or black market infrastructure: Purdue's own efforts to market and disseminate the drug meant ease of access for both pain victims and those who would finagle it out of a pharmacist or rob a supply truck for their fix. Five years after its release on the market, OxyContin exploded across newspaper headlines as the hottest new drug in America. 

When the Food and Drug Administration approved OxyContin, they too accepted Purdue Pharma's assurance that the time-release matrix would be tamper-proof and that Purdue had resolved opiate's inherent contradiction. But in 1999, the FDA formulated a new policy designed to combat any "remaining uncertainties" about approved drugs. In a memorandum issued in May of that year, the Task Force on Risk Management required pharmaceutical companies who marketed potentially addictive drugs to design a "risk-management program." Companies had to collect data from around the country on how their drugs were being used. If their research uncovered any previously unforeseen "special risks," the manufacturer had to intervene by limiting distribution or designing mandatory education programs for doctors on cautious prescribing. 

But by 2001, zealous regulators were not the only ones threatening OxyContin's future. Newspapers and television specials were suggesting that for every injured coastguard officer saved by an OxyContin miracle, a bored teenager in backcountry Maine was sniffing his grandmother's prescription. Scared doctors started prescribing OxyContin less. With hysteria spreading and Purdue Pharma's bottom line threatened, Oxycontin's "special risks" were cropping up everywhere. Purdue Pharma had no choice but to intervene.


BEFORE HE CAME TO PURDUE PHARMA, Dr. Sidney Schnoll spent over 20 years on the frontlines of the drug war, treating opiate addicted patients lost in the hazy territory between abuse and legitimate pain relief. In 2001, Purdue Pharma lured Schnoll away from his clinical battles to its corporate headquarters, where he became Executive Medical Director for Health Policy. Despite a growing public relations disaster and the demands of watchful regulators, Purdue's CEO convinced Schnoll that they wanted him to monitor OxyContin abuse not out of concern for their bottom line but "because it's the right thing to do." 

From the start Schnoll engineered Purdue Pharma's surveillance of OxyContin. With the help of an External Advisory Board of what Schnoll termed "world-renowned experts," he masterminded a $5 million a year risk management program called Researched Abuse Diversion and Addiction Related Surveillance (RADARS). In the first phase of RADARS, Purdue Pharma would collect data from across the country. Schnoll would reap information from databanks in Missouri, Delaware, Pennsylvania, and Colorado, compensating centers that invested in additional research to meet Purdue Pharma's demands. Backed by Purdue Pharma's funding, teams would be dispatched to hot zones in rural Virginia and Maine. For Schnoll, this effort-which would divert five million dollars from $1.5 billion in gross sales-reflected Purdue Pharma's commitment to civic responsibility. "We're a part of society. Even though we are a corporation, we cannot separate ourselves from the society in which we function." 

To head up the Maine portion of the study, Schnoll enlisted a Yale doctor named Robert Heimer. When Schnoll first approached him with the offer, Heimer did not hesitate to accept despite the bad press Purdue Pharma had been receiving. While acknowledging that "a lot of negative press ... compromises their ability to achieve their free market potential," he saw their desire to combat "media hype" as perfectly reasonable. Whether or not Purdue hoped that Heimer would expose the alleged OxyContin epidemic as media invention-allowing them to continue their aggressive marketing and distribution campaign guilt-free-he saw no intention on the part of Purdue Pharma to hide or manipulate his findings. In fact, Schnoll had insisted that researchers retain full control over any data collected in Maine, and only barred investigators from publishing any proprietary information, like a technical description of OxyContin's time-release matrix. Nabarun Dasgupta, a field coordinator for Heimer's study, spent the entire summer in Maine and never saw, met, or spoke with anybody who worked for Purdue Pharma. 

On June 28TH, 2002, three days before Yale researchers arrived in Maine, Purdue Pharma representatives convened a press conference in Portland. They had arrived with the team of Yale researchers to help Maine figure out why young men were overdosing and infants were being born addicted to drugs. The press conference was meant to showcase the company's good intentions and civic integrity. But once researchers were on the ground, the effect of the event-and the publicity that surrounded it-seemed to be the exact opposite: Purdue Pharma's spectacle left Mainers distrustful and wary of participating. As Dasgupta recalled, one man refused outright "because it was paid for by Purdue."


BUT BEFORE POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS could turn down Nabarun Dasgupta and Mark Kinzly, the Yale team had to find some OxyContin addicts, to no one's great surprise, proved somewhat hard to find. It's easy to pick out some kinds of opiate addicts. For example, Kinzly could stroll through a neighborhood known for its drug trade and identify heroin users by the scars in their elbow crooks, between their fingers, and, since it was summer, on the tops of their feet. But pills do not leave similar tracks. 

To find prescription pill users, Heimer's team used a research method called respondent-driven sampling. They printed up hundreds of yellow coupons emblazoned with the acronym CASUM-Community Assessment of Substance Use in Maine-with three different phone numbers where investigators could be reached. Respondents who could prove they were opiate abusers would get $20 for their interview, and five dollars for every additional person they referred to CASUM. Kinzly and Dasgupta carried booklets in their pockets, gave them to methadone clinics and doctors' offices, and deposited them in unemployment offices. Word of the study spread much the same way that word of OxyContin had a few years earlier. A user might pass his friend a coupon as a way of making some extra cash. When a dealer slipped his buyer a baggie, he might tuck a folded coupon underneath. 

Dasgupta and Kinzly went anywhere users were comfortable being interviewed: coffee houses, parks, people's homes. Investigators first presented participants with an 8.5 by 11 chart, a sort of police lineup of 20 different tablets, and asked them to point to the drugs they had done in the last 30 days. They slipped OxyContin somewhere into the middle, a diagonal staircase of pink, gold, and green pills. Respondents who signaled any opiate qualified as participants. After some initial quantitative questions, the sessions turned free-form, flowing into conversations that lasted anywhere from five minutes to three and a half hours. 

Kinzly and Dasgupta heard countless stories like that of one accident victim, a former Coast Guard officer who had been hurled against the side of a yacht by a wave. The impact severed one testicle, pushed the other inside of his body, and paralyzed his entire right side, leaving him unable to perform even the most menial tasks without pain. Doctors prescribed everything-Percocet, Methadone, Vicodin-but nothing worked. After a doctor's suggestion that he try street heroin left him strung out for two years, he discovered OxyContin. It worked. 

"We were going 12 to 16 hours a day. It was a lot of damn work," Kinzly remembers. In the end, the Yale team conducted 275 interviews over two and a half months. This spring, they will release a full report of their findings. 

DASGUPTA DOESN'T NEED A REPORT to validate his efforts for Purdue Pharma. He knows he helped suffering addicts. One man arrived to his interview with puffy hands infected from using dirty needles at shallow angles to shoot up. Dasgupta connected him with a local needle exchange program and taught him how to inject properly. He met an AIDS patient who first used OxyContin to alleviate pain caused by anti-retroviral drugs. When Dasgupta met him, he was struggling to get clean, but hated attending crowded, often useless Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. Dasgupta gave him the number for Narcotics Anonymous, a much smaller program targeted at opiate addiction. By the end of the summer, people recognized Dasgupta on the street and would stop to say hello--although sometimes passersbys had an ulterior motive since, as he put it, "they knew we had condoms and other harm reduction tools and we would give them out." 

The Yale team also used Purdue Pharma's money to fight Maine's addiction problem in more systematic ways. Researchers taught EMTs and policemen to use Naloxone, an opiate antagonist that neutralizes a high when injected, and connected local authorities with funding sources to keep it in stock. Since users were often amateurs playing in a league of drug habits way above their skill level, Dasgupta and his colleagues trained them as well. They designed and disseminated pamphlets on how to snort, smoke, and inject while doing as little damage as possible. 

Purdue Pharma has also intervened to fight OxyContin abuse. When pharmacies complained that dealers were using fake prescriptions to obtain OxyContin, Purdue Pharma created a new forge-proof prescription pad for doctors to use specifically for OxyContin. They pulled a 160 milligram pill from the market because its danger to addicts outweighed its medical value. Six months ago, RADARS data revealed that Maine's dealers smuggled much of their OxyContin in from Canada. Purdue Pharma now stamps each Canadian tablet with the letters CAN, allowing law enforcement officials to identify illegal tablets on the street. When an armed gang robbed a Mexican warehouse, Purdue Pharma halted distribution there. Purdue Pharma scientists have started work on a reformulated OxyContin pill, one that keeps the time-release mechanism intact even when pills are crushed. 

According to Schnoll, Purdue Pharma will unveil the second phase of its risk-management program, its official intervention plan, in the next six months. He maintains that if the CASUM team's programs and Purdue Pharma's reforms last year are indicative of anything, it is that Purdue Pharma will maintain a community-oriented focus, and will make the commitment to "understand the problem and assist in any way we can." But Purdue Pharma has already staked out firm boundaries to their magnanimity. As Schnoll sees it, Purdue Pharma has already staked out firm boundaries to their magnanimity. As Schnoll sees it, Purdue Pharma's magnanimity.




**OxyContin in Calais, Maine**
**Author: Ana Munoz**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Pharma "is a pharmaceutical company; we 
make medications to help physicians do 
their jobs better." After 20 years of working 
in addiction therapy, Schnoll knows there 
is a "definite need for better treatment," 
but adds that "is simply not our job." What 
this means is that Purdue Pharma will 
never direcdy fund any treatment pro-
grams. 

Mark Kinzly is proud of his work in 
Maine last summer because "as someone 
who has been on both sides of the street-
both as a research subject and as a 
researcher-it's critically important to me 
that we do good work in the community so 
that they can make changes." Still some-
times he knows he could have done more: 
"Yeah, I wish we had one percent of their 
profits to do really good intervention, like 
treatment programs. I also wish that frogs 
had wings so they wouldn't bump their 
asses when they jump." 

LATE 
IN 
JANUARY, Carrie Perkins-
McDonald got a call from a desperate, 
middle-aged father. His 19-year-old son 
had become addicted to OxyContin over 
a year ago and had robbed his parents to 
support his habit. Now they have been 
forced to file for bankruptcy. Lately, 
McDonald, who works a double shift as 
the co-director of Neighbors Against 
Drug Addiction and the director of the 
Opiate Treatment Planning Grant, in 
Calais, Maine, fields phone calls like this 
at least twice a week. 

Perkins-McDonald spent her entire life 
in Calais, a town whose one cab is the only 
taxi service in all of Washington County. 
One of her best friends from high school 
won a full scholarship to 
Boston University Law 
School, but her addic-
tion to OxyContin pro-
hibited her from attend-
ing. Last time Perkins-
McDonald saw her, she 
weighed 90 pounds and 
had contracted hepatitis 
c from injecting unclean 
drugs. 

Another 
best 
friend's OxyContin habit 
precipitated a miscar-
riage three months into 
her pregnancy. Over the 
last year and half, Carrie 
has tried to supplement 
this anecdotal evidence with hard data illus-
trating the growing public health crisis rav-
aging her hometown. 

People 
in Washington 
County, 
Maine's most rural region, where almost a 
fifth of residents live below the national 
poverty line, have always turned to drugs. 
In a 2002 survey, the Maine Office of 
Substance Abuse interviewed high school 
seniors about their drug habits. While 
Washington County teens, according to 
the data, binge drink as much as their peers 
in the rest of the state, almost twice as 
many use O:xyContin-5.8 percent in 
Washington County versus 3.2 percent 
everywhere else. There are ads in the local 
paper urging people to become foster par-
ents-a dire need in a county where last 
year the number of children removed from 
the homes of addicted parents increased 50 
percent. 

Kicking an opiate habit is almost 
impossible in Calais, however. The nearest 
methadone clinic is three hours away, and 
state and federal agencies have rebuffed 
Perkins-McDonald's efforts to create a clos-
er one. Ironically, Purdue Pharma is the 
only institution that has come to 
Washington County's aid over the last two 
years. They gave Perkins-McDonald $5,000 
last year, which allowed her to rent an 
office space in downtown Calais and print 
prevention pamphlets with the leftover 
money. Last fall, the local-high school ran 
out of money to pay their in-house drug 
counselor. Perkins-McDonald had the city 
council write Purdue Pharma a letter 
lamenting the loss. Within three days, the 
company donated $40,000 to keep a coun-
selor in the school. 

In October 2001, a Purdue Pharma 
representative arrived in Calais claiming to 
have a solution. At a banquet dinner fund-
ed by the company, the representative 
announced a new education plan that 
would keep children from trying drugs. It 
was called "Painfully Obvious." Inside each 
kit was a gelatin model of a human brain. 
A glossy pamphlet inside described the 
gory effects of opiate withdrawal--con-
stant diarrhea, vomiting, and severe shiver-
ing. A few gradations of the obvious later, 
under heading labeled "RidiCulously 
Obvious," the pamphlet let kids know that 
"DEAD PEOPLE ARE NO FUN" 

But the parents of Washington 
County's opiate-dependent teens were 
impatient with anyone offering gimmicky 
prevention tools and simplistic pamphlets 
bearing sober warnings. Their children 
were already beyond their control. As ten-
sions rose, one man stood up and demand-
ed to know why Purdue Pharma could not 
spare a fraction of the millions of dollars in 
profits from OxyContin to give Calais 
what it needed most-a treatment center 
to help those already addicted get clean. In 
reply, the spokesman repeated the company 
line: Purdue Pharma's obligations extend 
only so far. The company only makes 
drugs. While they want to make sure their 
products are properly used, getting addicts 
off drugs is somebody else's business. 


**The National Handicapping Challenge**
**Author:  [Author Name Not Provided]**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

B
EHIND A PARKED TRACTOR on a race-
track in Queens, cwo men in raincoats 
squeeze the belly of a horse. The horse 
bucks, the jockey approaches, and the sta-
ble-hands pull the saddle strap around the 
horse. Above them the American flag waves 
in the snow-heavy sky, and the national 
anthem begins to play. 

340 people, who each paid $300 for 
the chance to compete in the richest and 
toughest gambling tournament outside of 
Las Vegas, are watching from an off-crack-
betting stadium (OTB) almost 8o miles 
away, in the outskirts of New Haven. The 
contestants rise for the anthem as it filters 
through the speakers high above. They 
stand between rows of white-clothed 
tables, their faces lifted towards the moving 
mosaic below the stadium's ceiling. It is 
there, on one of four giant television 
screens, that their horses are waiting to run 
at the racetrack in Queens. 

The contestants before us are gathered 
for Sports Haven's seventh annual National 
Handicapping Challenge. This is a contest 
becween some of the best gamblers in the 
country. It is a contest to determine who 
can best predict the future by looking at the 
past. They are waiting for the races to start, 
for the chance to show that they have mas-
tered a game in which everyone loses. They 
are studying the Daily Racing Form, they 
are gripping their lucky pens, they are cal-
culating the odds. 

The rules for the contestants are sim-
ple: place ten wagers on any ten horses over 
the course of cwo days. Whoever wins the 
most money on these ten will win the 
tournament, collect $40,000 in prize 
money, and find himself on an all expense 
paid trip to Las Vegas for a chance to com-
pete 
m 
the National Handicapping 
Championship. Everyone here today 
thinks he has discovered the secret to gam-
bling. Only one will walk out a winner. 

In Queens, the anthem has ended. 
The jockeys are mounting, the owners are 
perhaps praying, and the handicappers in 
New Haven are about to find out what it 
takes to win the game of chance. 

H
ANDICAPPING CONTESTS, like this one 
at Sports Haven, have reached an 
unprecedented level of popularity in recent 
years. They are part of an ongoing prolifer-
ation of gambling venues across the coun-
try, a trend that began over 20 years ago 
when America placed its first wager. The 
wager was simple: legalize gambling, the 
ancient pastime of sin and vice, and hope 
for the best. In New Haven, the bet was 
placed early: In 1979, the city became the 
first in the country to build an OTB. 

On opening night," a crowd gathered 
in the parking 'lot of the towering stadium 
just off I-95· The doors opened to reveal a 
strange new world where wagers could be 
placed on horses running hundreds of 
miles away; where you could lose your last 
dime and be only a hop, skip, and a jump 
from a home-cooked dinner of mac and 
cheese. These first patrons were wined and 
dined on the top tier of the stadium, with 
musi~ and a feast. Thus began a ritual that 
for some gamblers has continued until this 
day. Some still park their cars in the same 
spots and cast their bets from the same 
tables. They come for the thrill of the 
game, the fine service, and the good com-
pany. 

On some scoreboards, this national 
wager 
has 
paid off. Thousands of 
Americans across the country gamble·every 
day and have a grand old time. In 1998, 
gambling grossed $50 billion, more than 
movies, theme parks, and the music indus-
try combined. Last year's champion of the


--- Page 27 ---

Sports Haven Handicapping Challenge 
drove home with an enormous cardboard 
check for $40,000 in his backseat and woke 
up to his name in the paper. As the 
brochures at Spores Haven assure the 
novice gambler who wanders through its 
renovated doors, Racing is Fun! 

On ocher scoreboards-scoreboards 
that are not displayed in the casinos-the 
dice fall differently. A few years after chat 
first opening night, a father forgot his son 
in the new OTB in Norfolk. It became the 
big family joke: a little boy at the OTB all by 
himself with the gamblers. This little boy's 
father was a gambler. Every night at din-
nertime, his father would say, "We need 
milk. Milk and cookies." And then he 
would drive over co the store to pick up 
milk and .cookies. On the way, he'd stop at 
the phone booth, drop in a dime, and call 
his bookie to place a bet. The house had 
more milk and cookies than any ocher 
house on the block. 

Walk into any OTB in the country and 
chances are one of any four gamblers sitting 
at a cable watching the screens-perhaps 
the one who is snapping his fingers in cir-
cles and scamping his feet and shrieking 
"holy mother-of-god"-is there because he 
FEBRUARY 2003 
can't say no to gambling. But then again, 
there is always the chance that he will mas-
ter the game. 

T
HE FIRST TIME STUART "BEEP" Rubin, 
defending champion of the toughest 
handicapping tournament in che country, 
went co the racetracks, he fell in love. In 
1977 his father-"the best guy on earth, 
may he rest in peace"-took him co watch 
Seattle Slew win the triple final. The young 
Beef fell head over heels in love with the 
pageantry, the color, the ambiance of the 
races. But, as is sometimes the case with 
love, it took four or five brutal, painstaking 
years before he made sense of the game. 
Today, he has come back co win. He will 
use his mind and strategy co control the 
races that once almost controlled him. 

After the anthem has filtered through 
the broadcast system on this first morning 
of February, Beef pulls his gray beanie back 
over his shoulder-length curls and makes 
his way through the crowd. Beef is stocky 
and moves quickly. He carries with him a 
scotch, no ice. Around him, the darkened 
stadium is abuzz and swirling. Jazz muzak 
is falling from towering speakers. The 
Lakers are dancing and dribbling across a 
giant screen, looking down upon another 
screen on which dogs are chasing rabbits. 
The contestants are burying themselves in 
the Daily Form, under ringlets of smoke. 
Beef seems impervious to it all. 

Beef has set up an "office" from which 
he will implement his finely tuned plan to 
beat the odds. He has chosen the far-end of 
a table that faces a wall of mini-television 
screens. A placard of sorts marks his seat: a 
torn-out ad featuring a red slab of beef. 
Beef sics down at his desk and starts talking 
strategy. His face is damp with perspira-
tion. 

In the Bronx, Beef has another office 
from which he runs his second career as an 
Education Evaluator for the New York 
Department of Education. In that office, 
Beef once tried to hang a beautiful calendar 
of Churchill Downs. But he had to cake it 
down: Parents told his colleagues they did 
not want a gambler evaluating their chil-
dren. 

Here in his temporary office, nobody 
says anything about the beef ad. This is 
where Beef will take his expertise of statis-
tical analysis for evaluating children and 
apply it to evaluating horses. Beef's secret 
to gambling lies in the sprint-pace race--
27 



**The Gamblers of Sports Haven**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
meaning he will generally only bet on races shorter than seven 
eighths of a mile--but that's only part of the story. "The people 
who win at this-it's a lot of work," he says, nodding at the con-
testants around him. Beef put in six hours yesterday, analyzing the 
races to predict which horse will bring home the money in a com-
plex and very difficult process known as handicapping. 

The basic premise of handicapping is that if you take the time 
to study the horses, to research the sire of the horse, the sire of the 
horse's dam, the number of workouts the horse last run, the post 
position of the horse, the 
horse's doses of the steroid 
lacix, if the jockey is a jour-
neyman or not, if the turf is 
soft or hard, if the blinders 
are on or off-you can con-
trol the races. A retired 
horse-owner who flew up 
from Florida spent an hour 
on the plane and another three at his hotel handicapping. One con-
testant, a meteorologist, has created an entire website to showcase 
his own statistical analysis of the winning probability of every 
breed. The Tournament Maverick spends every day working nine to 
five busily computing an infinite number of variables. 

Handicapping helped wean Beef off the addiction that some-
times likes to curl up in the laps of gamblers. He has created a suc-
cessful career of controlling the races. Now, he says, he can go rwo, 
even three weeks without placing a bet. "Unfortunately, the bad 
apples, the compulsive component of the game, get the spotlight. 
And so business guys like me don't get the spotlight, the ones that 
look a~ it like a business, as opposed to a compulsion." Beef takes a 
sip of his drink. The turquoise stone on his ring glimmers. He is not 
nervous. The first race is starting, and today may be his day to con-
trol the races. The spotlight is where it should be: on the real win-
ners, the people who treat this game as a skill. Not on the bad 
apples, the degenerates who give gambling a bad name. 

Across the room from where Beef is placing his wagers, anoth-
er man has set up camp in his usual spot. A custodian by day, he 
and his buddies have been gambling at Sports Haven for as long as 
any of them can remember. They 
usually come here, to this corner 
of the stadium that overlooks the 
sea of glowing televisions below, 
to bet on the dogs. This is the 
place where a few months back, 
on a late Monday afternoon, he 
and his buddies sac down to cal-
culate their cumulative losses. 
They came up with over $I million. On that afternoon, the custo-
dian admitted that he has a gambling problem. 

The custodian, who has paid his three hundred dollllfs for a 
chance to win, has seen the best experts lose it all. Mr. Sports 
Haven, pushing 65, was there that afternoon when they counted up 
their losses. Mr. Sports Haven earned his name when he made 
$27,000 in one day. You could say he saw the future--that is, until 
he turned around and lost every penny of it. He is still trying to win 
it back. 

The custodian used to work as a clerk at the Plainfield dog 
cracks in New Jersey before he moved to New Haven and made 
Sports Haven his second home. He has seen traders shoot up the 
dogs to make them run faster, he has seen people win $39,000 in 
one day and then blow it all in a couple of hours. He knows now 
that no matter what the brochures tell you about it being a game of 
skill and education, when it comes right down to it, there are no 
experts and anything can happen to anybody. Even to the best. 

Today, the custodian is back to gamble on the horses. Dogs are 
his specialty, but he knows that sometimes luck can be a lady. A 
couple years ago--this was over at Plainfield-a lady with tarot 
cards served him luck on a silver platter. She laid her cards out and 
looked right at him and said: "Five, eight, and six are your lucky 
numbers." When it came time for the races, he looked at the num-
bers written out on a slip of paper. Then he studied the odds on the 
screen and handicapped. He sat down and watched as the dogs set 
out from their starting pins and raced around the track. The little 
number five passed the line, followed by number eight, and right 
after that number six, who brought up the rear. The custodian had 
lost his shot at $I3o,ooo. 

The table where the custodian gambles, has seen a lot of loss-
es. But it has been good to the ones who lose. It brings them back 
every afternoon and every night and into the morning and gives 
them a place to go. But if the custodian could have one day back-
the day when he first walked through Sports Haven's doors-he 
would turn around and walk right back out. Knowing now what he 
didn't know then, no questions asked, he would never have started 
to bet. Because in this game, he says, you always lose. 


**A Life at the Races**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

A MAN ow ENOUGH to be the custodian's father is working on his 
.flhobby while the countdown to the Aqueduct race begins in 
Queens. Frank Aureimma is sitting quietly, alone at a large table in 
the non-smoking section near the wash-closet. He breathes deeply, 
looks up at the race countdown on the screen, and turns back to the 
newspaper resting in his hands. He has a broad face and wide-
spaced eyes and seems to be in no particular hurry. 

When Frank set out from his home in Long Island, his wife 
threw her arms around him and said, "Go get 'em kid." When he 
arrived at Sports Haven, his son called him on his cell phone to say 
hello. It didn't always used to be like this. 

Frank grew up at the races. He lived four blocks from 
Aqueduct, the track that is now coming into focus on the screen 
above him. By fifteen, Frank was already making the walk to 
Aqueduct and gambling there every day. By 20, he was gambling 
twice a day. By 30, the losses were building up and up and Frank 
was banging his head into walls. The addiction had settled in and 
made itself at home. The races had become more important than 
family. It was around this time that Frank cashed in and bought a 
horse himself, a trotter named Three 0 One. 

Three 0 One helped break the strength of the addiction. For 
the first time, Frank saw the gambling's seemy underbelly. He was 
there when Three 0 One got sick, he learned about all the ailments 
that can plague a horse and upset even the best handicapper's analy-
sis. Frank began to put all his energies into the horse, and away 
from gambling. He eventually became the proud owner of twelve 
horses. The addiction was slowly being pushed away, forced now to 
sit at the very base of his chair. It is still there, he says, and it will 
never leave. But for the past 30 years, he has been the one in con-
trol. 

"Must have gone through a billion 
dollars before I found it out," he muses 
today. This man, the President of Carvel 
Ice Cream, has finished in the top four in 
at least four recent handicapping tourna-
ments. He has forbidden his children and 
grandchildren to gamble. "There's really 
nothing to be derived as a positive thing 
when it comes to this," he says solemnly in 
the lull before the races start. "There's a lot 
of people that shouldn't be gambling." 

Frank himself is here for the sheer 
pleasure of the mental challenge that the 
races present. He is here because of the 
good fun that comes from handicapping, 
one of his favorite hobbies. And because he 
is still trying to get back the 20 dollars he 
lost in 1955. He smiles. He is still chasing 
his losses. 


**A Race at Sports Haven**
**Page number(s): 30**

SOMEWHERE THE RACES ARE STARTING. 
The wagers are in, the horses are ready, 
the handicappers are watching. 
And thry're off! The favorite numb" 
seven is making the lead at the pace 
call flashing speed chasing to mid-
stretch, numb" two is breaking slow-
ly, making a wide move on the 
extreme outside of the turn, and 
numb" five is picking up the dijfir-
ence from the inside, trailing c/ou 
behind numb" seven. Numb" seven 
is stili holding onto h" six length 
lead, numb" five is cutting the dif-
ference, number six leading now by 
four lengths, slipping back to two, 
one ... and number five has reigned in 
for a clean break-away, holding the 
pace up top, numb" seven has fallen 
back and number five has taken the 
I lead. And were in the final stretch 
now, number two is gaining pace, 
and it is neck and neck between two 
and seven, five stili holding the lead. 
It looks like a win for number five, 
place for two and show for sev~. 
Another race is over. The winning wagers 
are being tallied. The final resul~ will be 
posted after the last race has been run. All 
that is left to do is wait for the score. 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Maeve Herbert**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
as a little boy, was once left alone in an OTB 
in Norwalk will drive up to the back door 
of St. Brendan's church. He will have come 
for 
his 
first 
session 
at 
Gambler's 
Anonymous. He will make his way to the 
basement. It will be silent, save for the hum 
of the overhead lights that run the length of 
the long room filled with cafeteria-style 
tables. Flat pink walls will frame a stage at 
one end of the cold room. Jason will sit 
down at a table to talk, because his life is 
spiraling out of control. He lost it all. H e 
wants his life back, but he doesn't know 
how to do it. 

At night he can't sleep. He eats fast 
food because he doesn't have time to cook. 
He can't be away from the phone because 
he has to know the score. He gambles for 
the action, for the constant hope of making 
the score. 

When he finishes his story, he will 
look down at the table where the old 
ladies play bingo. Thirteen compulsive 
gamblers, sitting in a horseshoe, will 
clap. The former pro-baseball player, 
who was released from the team in 1967 
and turned to gambling and walked into 
his own world, his own cellar where 
$8o,ooo disappeared the next year, will 
tell Jason it will be alright. A teacher will 
tell Jason he understands his story. The 
salesman, who used to lie to his wife, will 
offer advice. (He would tell his wife he 
was going to the mall. He'd drive right 
up to the mall and right on through it. 
He'd stop at the OTB in Hamden tO place 
his bet, drive home, add lie in bed with 
his ear next to the radio on low so as not 
to wake his wife because he had to hear 
the scores.) 

These a.re the gamblers who some 
would lab~l the "degenerates": the ones 
who have lost control of gambling. They 
will remember that the closest friendship 
you have when you're a gambler is with 
the mailman who brings the bills-the 
$1000 telephone bill to the sports line to 
bet on the horses, the five pages of cash 
advances to make up for the losses. They 
will remember that the main link with 
the world is the phone booth-where 
you step inside and slip in your dime and 
hope for the best. They will remember 
the kind of hoping that makes you forget 
your twin daughters sitting in a locked 
car, waiting half an hour for their father 
to return from scratching the lotto ticket. 

Jason will listen to these stories and 
will know that he has found where some-
one knows what it means to be addicted to 
gambling. Tonight the compulsive gam-
blers in the room will be calm. Some of 
them will be the most serene they've been 
in years. They will be far away from the 
OTB stadiums, where the final scores for the 
best and dedicated handicappers are now 
being posted. 

T
HE FINAL SCORES have been tallied. 
The hobbyist, who held third place for 
the better part of the morning, finished 
tenth out of a 340 contestants. He is dri-
ving home to his family with $2,550 of con-
test money in his pocket. He is looking for-
ward to attending another tournament in 
July, where he will use his skill to master 
the game. The custodian finished in the 
top 50, with his name posted on the web-
site. He will be back to Sports Haven. And 
as for the defending champion: When Beef 
drove home to the Bronx last year with his 
$40,000 check in the back seat, he drove 
home blind. He thought he was going to 
die. The check took up the whole of his 
back window. He drove through a rain-
storm so bad he couldn't see where he was 
going or what was coming up from behind. 
The champion made it home, went to the 
pub, bought everyone a drink, and woke 
up the next day at 3:30 in the afternoon. 
This year, Beef drove home on a losing 
ticket. Despite all his expertise, despite hav-
ing picked many of the winning horses, 
Beef didn't even make it into the top two 
hundred finishers. But it was worth it, he 
says. He'll be back. Maybe not this year, 
but he'll be back. 


**Title: Medicine Man**
**Author: Dagan Coppock**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

A t three o'clock, on the day of what I was sure to be my death, 
,...,os was a hotbox of crowded flesh, gasoline fumes, oil palms, 
unseen microbes, and screaming children returning from a con-
crete-block school. Dust kicked up under feet and wheels, volatile 
molecules shuddered and rose from open sewers, sweat evaporated 
off the cuticles of plants and people, and all these particulates took 
communion in a heat-trapping screen above the city. Jos. Its name 
is an acronym for Jesus Our Savior--dubbed so by missionaries, the 
first Westerners to visit the town, which later became part of 
Nigeria's Plateau State. Since those first missionaries, many foreign-
ers have come to Jos. Lying in a bed at the Jos Government Clinic, 
I wondered how many of those foreigners had died. I kept asking 
myself, How did I get here? Where did I go wrong? 

The year before I entered medical school, I was studying 
Yoruba traditional healers in southwestern Nigeria. My research was 
to last ten months. Having traveled for long periods in the past, I 
understood the intensity of such a commitment abroad. To avert 
homesickness, I invited my father to visit me halfway ~.r;ough my 
stay. 

Upon his arrival, I showed him all around Yorubaland. Taking 
him both to tourist centers and the rural sites where I did my 
research, I gave him a full introduction to Yoruba culrure. I took 
him through the fetish markets of Ojo, where he saw the antelope 
skins with the mark of Ifa, the diviner-god. I brought him to 
University of Ile lfe for dances where they blared the Afro-pop of 
Lagbaja, Femi Kuti, and his great father Fela Kuti. I broke bread 
and drank palm wine with him and the witches of the Yoruba 
Kabbalah Center-an instirute that unifies Judaism with the 
Yoruba oro. I delivered him into the presence of Egungun, the 
beautiful and frightening festival of elaborately masked men, who 
were not men but gods. We also traveled to the North, an area with 
a lifestyle influenced more by the Sahara than by the tropics and 
with animist traditions influenced more by Islam than by 
Christianity. 

Learning the Peril 

On that trip to the North, things fell apart, slowly and irrevo-
cably. I woke on the morning of our flight with a high fever, joint 
pains, a pounding headache, and mild vertigo. I was sure I had 
malaria. On a previous excursion to West Africa, I had contracted 
the disease after refusing to take Lariam, the medical prophylactic 
of choice. I knew my relatively mild symptoms like an aura before 
an epileptic fit. 

Canceling the trip wasn't an option. Our tickets were non-
refundable, and our flight left m~ch too early for me co visit a doc-
tor and confirm my self-diagnosis. I could, however, self-medicate. 
Fighting my fever, I worked through my options. Chloroquine was 
the first treatment that came to mind. But Malaria folciparum, the 
most common strain of malaria in West Africa, had been develop-
ing a resistance to chloroquine for years. In any case, I bad left my 
only chloroquine stashed at my rural research site. All I had with me 
was a supply of Lariam. 

A 250 milligram dose of Lariam, taken once a week by mouth, 
has kept many travelers malaria-free for more than a decade. It 
seems easy-just swallow a little pill and you stay free of the para-
site. In reality; it's more onerous. It is not rare for Peace Corps 
Volunteers (Pcvs), diplomats, researchers, and others who take have 
taken Lariam to complain of upset stomachs, diarrhea, vision prob-
lems, headaches, and dizziness-symptoms strikingly similar to 
malaria itself-as well as strange dreams and a sense of having "not 
been right in the head." Locals often tell stories of PCVs that have 
"gone crazy" and who have been sent back home. I once heard a 
story of a PCV stationed in a small village of Akonsi in the Akwapim 
hills. He began to develop what the psychiatric community calls 
"ideas of reference" and "delusions of grandeur." He believed he was 
a holy man, sent by local gods to save the village. When the Peace 
Corps reps found him in the bush, he was screaming to the locals, 
"I am not a white man! I am a god! No, really, white men have acted 
as gods in the past. But I'm different. I AM a god. Really. I WILL save 
you. I have a plan, an elaborate plan for eco-tourism that .... " He 


;of Self-Medication 

went on and on. Of course, none of it was in Krobo, the local lan-
guage; the PCV hadn't been in Akonsi long enough to learn it. When 
I asked her, the man's Peace Corps replacement said the madness 
had been attributed by their doctors to Lariam and "a predisposi-
tion for psychosis." 

In me, Lariam's side effects had been mild, and in Nigeria I had 
faithfully taken Lariam once a week for the entirety of my stay. (The 
drug's 99 percent effectiveness should have made me suspicious of 
my self-diagnosis of malaria, but that fact seemed to slip my mind.) 
The side effects that I knew, however, were the result of one pill, the 
prophylactic dose--250 milligrams-to be metabolized over a 
whole week. The treatment dose, however, is five pills-1250 mil-
ligrams. If I took that much at once, I could very well go crazy. I 
argued to myself, I probably have a ton of residual Lariam circulat-
ing through my bloodstream already. My body seems to tolerate 
that well. What will a few more pills hurt? 

I took the pills. We flew to Jos. My malarial symptoms 
resolved. 

As my father and I wandered the streets and markets of]os, my 
world began to change. My headache, my vertigo, my joint pain, 
my fluctuating fever-they all returned with a fierceness that sur-
passed my previous definitively-diagnosed case of malaria. My sens-
es began to expand. The colors of the market seemed to rise from 
their surfaces. The din of the busy streets began to separate out into 
their components-the blare of a car horn, the sputter of a lorry's 
engine, the rumble of Hausa voices, the howl of a baby, the palpi-
tations of my own heart. The noonday heat worked its way into my 
skin. Ic became electricity, pushed aside my cells, worked its way 
into the interstitium of my consciousness. At first my heightened 
senses elated me. I thought it was the inherent awareness of being 
in a new place. Soon though, something told me it couldn't be just 
that. 

Three hours later, I was lying in the Jos Government Clinic. 
Though the peripheral blood smear at the clinic's lab showed no 
FEBRUARY 2003 
malarial parasites, I developed a fever-not a known side effect of 
Lariam. In an attempt to reduce the fever, I removed my shirt and 
khakis. All night, my father wiped down my skin with a wet cloth. 
On that bed in ]os Government Clinic, I wasn't a doctor. I wasn't 
my father's all-knowing guide. I was a boy who had swallowed a pill 
without thinking. 

My father was more frightened than I was. He asked me, 
"What if the lab is wrong? Isn't there just another pill-something 
different we can give you for the malaria?" "Yes, I could take chloro-
quine. But, if the lab's right, and all of this is drug-induced and not 
malaria, it could get worse. Lariarn and chloroquine are in the same 
drug family. Maybe chloroquine will just add to the damage." 

The next morning, my father and I flew back co Lagos. I was 
treated by both the American Embassy's physician and a hospital 
run by Israeli expatriates. Though the embassy's lab discovered one 
malaria parasite in my blood, neither the American nor the Israeli 
physicians could confirm that my debilitation had been caused by 
malaria. They felt that one parasite in a microscope's high-power 
field meant little and could easily be a lab error. None of the doc-
tors could make a definitive diagnosis. They could simply keep me 
hydrated, monitor my vitals, and control my fever. 

After a few days of being monitored at the Israeli hospital, I 
recovered. At the American Embassy's request, I flew home, under-
went a physical, and received a clean bill of health. 

A few weeks after my research in Nigeria was complete, I 
entered Yale Medical School. Now in my third year, I have recently 
completed rounds on a pediatrics ward, where on an out-patient 
basis doctors deal largely with seasonal colds. I've been struck by 
how often parents demand antibiotics for their sick children despite 
the warnings that the drugs do nothing for the common cold and 
ultimately make bacterial infections more difficult to combat. 

At first the parents' insistence frustrated me. One man refused 
to leave until his child was given "a shot or some pills or some-
thing." But I recall the temptation to abandon the protocols of evi-
dence-based medicine in favor of a quick fix. Is it hypocritical for 
me as a doctor-in-training to refuse my patients' demands for a pill, 
any pill, to stop painful symptoms when I learned first hand in 
Nigeria how strong the temptation to seize a simple solution can be? 
The answer is no, because I also learned in Yorubaland that to be a 
doctor is more than simply to be the guardian and dispenser of pre-
cious, omnipotent pills. It is to form the holiest of bonds--one 
based on the sustenance of life and health. Ic is a bond that could 
have saved me from my own mistakes and my near-death experi-
ence on that day in Jos. 

Dagan Coppock is a third-y~ar stulknt 
at th~ ~k School of M~dicin~. 



**Title: The Future of an Illusion**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.. 
The Future of an 
I
N SEPTEMBER 1968, RicHARD NtxoN STEPPED up to a podium 
and uttered a few words that changed the course of history: "As I 
look over the problems in this country, I see one that stands our." 
What Nixon called "the modern curse of the youth" was encourag-
ing crime, fostering apathy, and "decimating a generation of 
Americans." The scourge was narcotics, and the remedy that Nixon 
proposed-the War on Drugs-has not only endured, but also per-
manently infiltrated American discourse. On that day, drugs 
became part of a netherworld, the realm of outsiders and 
sociopaths. They became a symbol of sickness, dystopia, decay, 
poverry, and anomie. They became, in Nixon's words, "just like the 
plagues and epidemics of former years." 


More than chirry years later, these notions of disease and 
degeneracy resurface in Nick McDonell's novel Tw~/v~. Penned 
when McDonell was seventeen and soon to matriculate at Harvard, 
34 
T~/w follows protagonist "White Mike" as he tours depraviry and 
nihilism in the world of spoiled Manhattan private sch~ol kids. 
Though White Mike has deferred admission to college for a year to 
selJ drugs on the streets of New York, he is meant to be an outsider 
to this culture of depraviry. He deals drugs but refuses to take them. 
He goes to parties but never drinks. He knows everyone but has no 
real friends. He is an observer, one who is attracted to, but cannot 
ultimately identify with, decadence. 


And, oh, is the immoraliry copious! We watch with White 
Mike as his peers pay with sex for expensive drugs, including che 
THE New JouRNAL 


---

**Page number(s): 35-36**

Illusion 
by Jacob Blecher 
Down by the River by Charles Bowden (Simon and Schuster 2002) pp. 448. 
Twelve by Nick McDonell (Grove Press 2002) pp. 256. 
How to Stop Time by Ann Marlowe (Anchor Books 2000) pp. 304. 
mysterious, titular "Twdve"; tartoo their names in gold on their 
backs; ponder cutting school, flying down co Key West, and getting 
"shitfaced and laid all the time"; and even kill each other with .38 
calibers and uzis. It is a hopeless world, a milieu that is frightening 
and bleak, which we are reminded of alJ too often by White Mike's 
habit of re-reading Camus's Th~ Plague. 
FEBRUARY 2003 
If the world of Twelv~ is scary, however, it is also familiar. 
Decadence means more than just drugs, alcohol, sex, and violence: 
It also means consumption of brand name luxuries. Characters 
invariably buy their dope with Nokia phones in hand, North Face 
jackets on their backs, and Prada bags over their shoulders. The 
clever and ironic idea at work here is that mainstream American 
consumerism and decadent drug use aren't all that different. This 
parallel is of great concern to McDonell. Like Brec Easton Ellis's 
classic Less Than Zero (the book from which McDonell shamelessly 
cribbed his plot) and Larry Clark's film Kids, Tw~lv~ identifies a 
societal problem and revels in the tragedy of it all. It is an extrava-
ganza of futility. If only we didn't live in such a screwed up, materi-
alistic world, McDonell piously laments. 


This mostly hackneyed portrayal suggests that systemic condi-
tions-capitalism, perhaps-might be at work. But McDonell 
never follows through on this move. In the end, his assessment of 
his characters' lives hinges on a simple, puritanical moral judgment: 
that they are participating in a corrupt, materialist culture. This is a 
Nixonian horror-drugs and luxury goods drive people to harm 
themselves physically, to prostitute themselves, and to kill each 
other. McDonell, who, according to The New l0rk", does "no ille-
gal substances" and was class president at his New York prep school, 
essentially succumbs to the myth that drugs are something of an 
exotic disease, one that is ruining our world. But we don't have co 
descend into that netherworld if we try hard enough, he says. We 
can espouse moderation and resist, or at lease escape. We can be like 
Whire Mike, who goes off co Paris at the end of the book and 
opines, "I don't know why, but Paris seems a better place than New 
York." 


Twelve represents the muddle that is the current debate on 
drugs. Most of us probably agree with McDonell's assessment of the 
drug situation, even if we discan.ce ourselves from the governmen tal 
pontification that says the same thing. We agree that most drugs are 
unhealthy in some way, that the drug trade can be exploitative and ' 
dangerous, that drugs can inhibit one's ability to succeed in life. We 
share a basic understanding that some kind of societal change is 
needed. But beyond that common sentiment, no consensus exists. 



**Page number(s): 36**

No one knows how to solve the problem. 
Every solution either fails-as in the case of 
our government's War on Drugs-or is 
vague and implausible. In plaC<e of a viable 
course of action, we spout some form of 
Nixonian rhetoric: drugs are bad; they're 
not good for society; we must be vigilant in 
our crusade against them. 


But could it be that the very impulse 
to ask, "What should we do about drugs?" 
stems from a deeper condition? This is the 
approach that journalist Charles Bowden, 
who spent more than half a decade along 
the United States-Mexico border reporting 
the drug trade, takes in his bold new book 
Down by th~ River. Bowden's conclusion, 
which he arrives at through telling the story 
of a Drug F.nforcement Agency head whose 
brother was mysteriously murdered in 1995, 
is that American society is intimately 
bound up in the Mexican drug trade. 
Accordingly, our urge to call it a "problem" 
reflects our fear and confusion in the face 
of a pervasive and ungovernable force. 
-NO-One knows for sure how large the 
global drug economy is, but one thing is 
dear: It redistributes hundreds of billions 
of dollars across the earth every year. 
Bowden estimates that the drug industry 
brings between S27 and S32 billion to 
Mexico each year. That is about $20 billion 
more than oil, the cOuntry's largest official 
export. For Bowden, this fact reveals one of 
the most urgent-and most ignored-sto-
ries of our time: that the drug economy 
and the legal economy are one and the 
same, that the effects felt on either side 
reverberate across both. If Mexico were to 
lose the S30 billion that drugs pump into 
the economy, the country would simply 
collapse. Ten percent of the nation's gross 
domestic product would vanish. A study 
leaked to the press by the Mexican internal 
security agency CISEN guesses that the 
country's economy would shrink by as 
much as 63 percent. The same study pins 
the us decline between 19 and 22. percent. 
For Bowden, the accuracy of these fig-
ures is questionable. But as someone who 
has experienced the drug business first-
hand, his gut tells him that the underlying 
condition the numbers imply is accurate. 
What's more, the very condi_tion itself pre-
dudes -as from gaining access to concrete 
facts. All we have are Oeeting peeks into the 
inner workings of an endemically corrupt 
international drug network. There is the 
record of a S300 million transfer of money 
from Citibank by one of the richest drug 
dealers in Mexico, Amado Carillo; there is 
the taped conversation between the us 
Attorney General and the CIA director 
hushing drug-related crimes by CIA agents; 
there are the accounts of Carillo offering a 
deal to Mexican President Ernesto Zcdillo 
that included the transfer of half of 
Carillo's fortune to the government in 
exchange for immunity. None of this 
amounts to anything concrete. That may 
sound like the apology of a conspiracy the-
orist, but Bowden never pretends to be 
writing an objective account. His gossamer 
prose intends only to be suggestive. 


Our inability to comprehend the 
workings of the drug world is one of the 
reasons that Bowden thinks we tend to 
push drugs into the margins of daily life 
with other seemingly ineradicable ills, like 
poverty and guns. Like White Mike, we 
feel the need to call drugs a "problem" in 
order to deal with them. We put drugs in 
another "world" in order to localize and 
convenie'ntly distance ourselves from them. 
We even fight a War on Drugs, as we woUld 
against some distant country. But Bowden 
thinks that such reasoning only succumbs 
to a convenient illusion. To leave the drug 
"problem" to be solved by someone else in 
a far off place is to deny that we are all 
implicated in it. Bowden wants us to call 
the drug world a "business," to see dru~ as 
a multi-billion-dollar industry enmeshed in 
the 
same 
economic 
network 
as 
McDonald's, Ford, Microsoft, and Pfizer, 
so that the drug trade can be perceived, in 
his words, as "elemental and part of the 
fabric of" the United States, Mexico, and 
the rest of the world. It is a chilling 
thought, but it seems to speak some truth. 
It starts to explain how something not 
much different from Prozac could hold 
such a powerful place in the public imagi-
nation. 


Part of Bowden's motivation for bring-
ing the drug economy in line with the legal 
economy has to do with globalization. 
Though he does not say so explicitly, 
Bowden believes that the term "legal econ-
omy" may no longer be the most accurate 
way to describe any economy. Over the 
past several decades, corporations have 
become increasingly transnational-state-
less, in other words-and the difference 
between black markets and legal markets 
has diminished. Bowden goes so far as to 
call the Juarez cartel, one of the largest drug 
distributors in the world, a "model of the 
New Economy" -a description normally 
reserved for corporations that constantly 
move labor and capital across national bor-
ders in the pursuit of profits. The cartel, he 
says, is "stateless, borderless, global." It 
"rewards merit, ignores class origins," 
"hires and fires at will," and "despises regu-
lations and ducks tariffs." And as in all 
good businesses, the profits are colossal. 


This is a fascinating move, one that 
Bowden delicately weaves into his haunting 
narrative. Why, after all, should we think 
that drug cartels are any different from 
transnatio~al corporations, if both share 
similar contempt for the law? 


Where Bowden hedges on taking a 
moral stand on drugs, Ann Marlowe, in 
How to Stop Time: Hn-oin from A to Z, is 
more explicit. Marlowe's book is an autobi-
ographical account of a life spent as a hero-
in addict, but it is one like few others: that 
of a Harvard-educated yuppie who never 
truly became addicted to the drug, even 
after dozens of years. On the surface, 
Marlowe's story is interesting as an odd and 
anomalous account. As she hints early on, 
however, this surface oddity is merely a 
device for making a much bolder point: 
that she is not so much the exception as the 
rule among heroin and other drug users. 
She believes that addictive drugs are a 
choice, one ultimately not very different 
from others we make as consumers on a 
daily basis. 


Marlowe's thesis is that both serious 
drug use and commonplace consumption 
play into what she calls a "consumerist ide-
ology" that most people sublimate on a 
daily basis. The idea isn't so much that 
drugs are just another commodity, but the 
reverse--that aU commodities in our soci-
ety function like addictive drugs. The 
impulse to consume lots of things is, in 
other words, on par with the desire to do 
drugs. Marlowe is able to argue this 
because, in her opinion, addictioQ is con-
trollable. This was her experience as a hero-
in user, at least. She led a rich, intellectual 
life-both at Harvard graduate school and 
in the New York business world-that 
revolved around consistent, planned drug 
use, and she quit without difficulty. 


Marlowe doesn't deny that some drugs 
cause chemical dependency, but she 
THE NEW JoURNAL 



**The Owl Shop: A New Haven Institution**
**Author: Coco Krumm**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
HE DEATH OF THE AMERICAN specialty 
shop is old news. For years we've 
watched, with mixed emotions, the rise of 
Targets and Wal-Marts and Super-Ks: 
monuments to entrepreneurial gumption. 
A modern American city boasts neither 
panaderias nor gelaterias, and nary a zapa-
teria; any visiting Parisian in search of a 
wheel t>f roquefort will find his hunger sat-
isfied not off some cobblestone road but" on 
the refrigerated shelving of the dairy aisle. 

And yet, despite the rhetoric, there are 
those hardy establishments that have 
endured the consolidation of consumption 
and remain kicking.


It is fitting that the Owl Shop, one of 
New Haven's only specialty shops, caters co 
a uniquely American obsession. The 
College Street store is a "Tobacco Cafe," 
the product of a nation obsessed with 
tobacco-not so much with its consump-
tion as with debating its moral legitimacy. 
The legal history of the "dirty weed" is as 
old as this country, and modern litigation 
asks: Where on the spectrum of admissible 
behavior are we to place the pastime? 
Tobacco regulation lies at the intersection 
of temperance and civil liberty, rwo quin-
tessentially American virtues. 

For Joe Lentine, a gaunt, amicable 
man and the general manager of the Owl 
Shop, the answer is clear: Smoking is both 
enjoyable and virtuous. "Tobacco increases 
the alpha waves in the brain," which are 
ass9ciated with a state of relaxation, he 
say~. Sure, there ace health risks. But "we all 
start the process of dying the minute we're 
borh." 

Mr. Lentine lives his philosophy. 
Seated near the shop window with a cigar 
and a pensive air, he is a man steadfast and 
comfortable in his dominion. When he 
stands to assist a customer, he exudes the 
confidence of a salesman whose produce 
sells icsel£ Behind Mr. Lentine is a paltry 
display of cigarettes, ("We don't scock 
many; cigarettes are associated with addic-
cion" says an employee named Jesse.) To his 
left are a dozen canisters of blended tobac-
co. Across the store, which is carpeted with 
a thick, absorbent brown shag, is a glass 
case exhibiting music boxes, chess sets, and 
backgammon boards. The shop sells cigars 
(the fmest, says Mr. Lentine, are made by 
Davidoff), lighters, pipes and accessories, 
even breath mints. 

Although the store is welcoming and 
the staff is well-versed, there is the sense 
chat secrets ace unfurled only slowly and 
only to those who take time to listen. The 
Owl Shop is a refuge for the dawdler and 
the connoisseur, lending credence to Joe 
Lentine's notion that cigars and pipes make 
for "contemplative smoking." One Yale 
sophomore explained, "I enjoy browsing 
the fine selection. When you ask the right 
questions, the tobacconist will really begin 
to talk." 

The Owl Shop provides more than 
selection and service. It is also a meeting 
place. Regulars gather to converse and 
smoke, filling the dowdy and smoke-
infused armchairs in the back of the store. 
Mr. Lentine calls his clientele varied: a 
handful of professors, some members of the 
community, and a surprising number of 
Yale students. Most of the younger smokers 
belong to what he classifies as "the artistic 
type"-"actors, writers, creative people." 

The connections forged to the shop are 
deep, with many alumni continuing to buy 
products through mail order long after they 
graduate. 

When the Owl Shop was opened in 
1934, it was located next door to Naples 
Restaurant and served as a sort of Yale co-
op, selling caps, shires, and notebooks in 
addition to the signature products. In 1951, 
it moved to its current location across from 
the Shubert Theater, and visiting luminar-
ies began to call. "Arthur Miller used co 
stop in when he had a show up," says Mr. 
Lentine. "AA Pacino came in once to gee his 
lighter fixed." 

The 1960s and 70s saw a renewed 
interest in cigars and especially pipes, due 
in part to a 1964 Surgeon General's report 
decrying the dangers of smoking-ciga-
rettes were deemed far more pernicious 
than ocher forms of tobacco. (According to 
Mr. Lentine, Luther Terry, then surgeon 
general, was himself an avid pipe smoker.) 
About ten years ago, the Owl Shop noticed 
an immense resurgence in the popularity of 
cigars. "The magazine Cigar Aficionado sin-
gle-handedly brought on this revolution," 
says Mr. Lentine, because it created a new 
image of the cigar smoker. "Cigars began to 
denote that you had power, that you were a 
power broker. Smoking makes you feel rich 
even if you're not rich." 

Recently, tobacco seems to have taken 
a few blows in the legal arena. Now that 
America's relationship to cigarettes, and 
even to cigars, has become somewhat more 
antagonistic, is Mr. Lentine worried about 
the future? His answer is a definitive 'no.' 
He cites the historical involvement of the 
government-for better or for worse--in 
the fate of tobacco. In the 18TH century the 
crop was legal tender in the state of 
Virginia. Tobacco has a far greater yield per 
acre 
than 
corn 
or soybeans: 
The 
Agriculture Adjustment Act of 1933 was 
instituted to introduce price supports and 
save tobacco farmers from ruin. And the 
Owl Shop--forming, along with J. Press 
and Mory's, a sort of old school triumvirate 
around a University chat is often only 
amused by tradition-is standing its 
ground. These days, sales are strong, and 
for Joe Lentine, it's business as usual. After 
all, even as the ship was sinking, the gen-
tlemen of the Titanic sac down, L"l up, and 
enjoyed one lase smoke. 


**Title: Yale University Strengthens Neighborhoods**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale University Strengthens Neighborhoods 
Yale bu rontribuw to 1.000 unit» of affordable I:!OW-
inland home ownmbip in New Hctwn nriBbborhoo<» 
tfuoush_ tht Yale Home buyer program IIJJd throuth 
wpport br axnmunity dndopmen1 rorporations. 
Yalc- lJnM~aity prorida mon than u,ooo good jcb. 
in New Hawn with lltoll8 job KCUrity. good 1lr.llts. 
and exallent bendita induding free JJWdi4:al ~tilt' 
bomebuyuprosram. cdl• ~for~ 
childftU. and up to s~ paid days off for wcafuln. 
holidays. sick Jaw. and penonal time.


**Title: Yale University Supports Downtown**

Yale University Supports DoWntown 
Yale ia a major 1p01»« of 1he hitftllati(]llal FcstMal of 
Aru and ldtas. Shubert Theater. Maiket ~Hawn, 
and Town Grun Spuial ~ 
Oi.trirt 
n.. Mnu-' IMMaatiointl 
F..anlf#Atti.M 
ld.MiftN...H-
... ptiOftell a., Ya&a 
~~•as._. 
ol .. uaa!Nh ol Nlw 
H...,.....,...__ 
tiMe;;.,.. 


**Title: Yale University Enriches Public School Education**

Yale University Enriches Public SChool Education 
Mmt than 10.,04)0 NfW Hawn~ 
~panx~ 
m Yalt-spoDJOftd SKadtmk and athldk propan» on 
the Yale ~ 
fWt)' year.


**Title: Yale University Supports Government and Promotes Economic Development**

Yale University Supports Government and 
Promotes Economic Development 
Sinu 1990-Yale has peJd tnorr tban $20 million in 'rol-
untary cootn'bu~ diftc11y to tlx City pai11Dt'Ut.. 
FuD propmy taxa paid on ib coJJlJilUDity imatmmts 
tiiUe Yak Uniwnity tlx city's~ lupst rdl tstak 
~-
,....,_...,,. 
the Hil o.nigpnltilt 
Cotpor..- cl tlaia 
,_,._., Withted 
~.-o.ecl 
"-YHith~ 
.-t-tsY.-11• 
aopti>Oftell. 
.. 


**Title: Yale University: Contributing to a Strong New Haven**

Yale University: Contributing to a Strong New Haven 
www.yalc.edu 

