Publication date: September 2023
Volume: [Volume number not specified]
Issue number: [Issue number not specified]

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-in-Chief: Jabez Choi, Abbey Kim
- Executive Editor: Paola Santos
- Managing Editor: Kylie Volavongsa
- Verse Editors: Amal Biskin, Cleo Maloney
- Senior Editors: Meg Buzbee, Jesse Goodman, Nicole Dirks, Zachary Groz, Lazo Gitchos, Jasmine Wright, Ella Goldblum
- Associate Editors: Naina Agarwal-Hardin, Chloe Nguyen, Kinnia Cheuk, John Nguyen, Viola Clune, Ingrid Rodríguez Vila, Grace Ellis, Netanel Schwartz, Aanika Eragam, Etai Smotrich-Barr, Maggie Grether, Anouk Yeh, Samantha Liu
- Copy Editors: Yvonne Agyapong, Adam Levine, Connor Arakaki, Ella Pearlman-Chang, Lilly Chai, Victoria Siebor, Mia Cortés Castro, Lukas Trelease, Iz Klemmer
- Creative Director: Chris de Santis
- Design Editors: Issy Po, Cate Roser, Jessica Sánchez
- Photography: Kris Aziabor, Nithya Guthikonda, Nour Tantush
- Web Design: Makda Assefa, Serena Ulammandakh
- Members & Directors: Emily Bazelon, Haley Cohen Gilliland, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, Jonathan Dach, Susan Dominus, Kathrin Lassila, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Anson M. Beard, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

White Sugar, Devil’s Gold - Lazo Gitchos
Meditation on Monday Honey - Isabel Menon
Should I be Blessed With a Son - Ellie Atlee
The Year of Downstream Swimming - Netanel Schwartz
Lost Time - Miranda Jeyaretnam
The Debate for Dignity - Anouk Yeh
The Witches on Whitney - Kinnia Cheuk
The Kitty Waxer and Me - Abigail Sylvor Greenberg
Twin Cities - Arden Yum
Cake - Isabella Panico
Anti-Fragile - Daniella Sanchez
Remnants of a South Brigade - Audrey Coombe
Barber - Dean Farella
Startup Costs - Chloe Nguyen
Lost in Elm City, crossword, by Adam Winograd, page 47.


**Title: Letter from the editors**
**Author: The Managing Board**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,

Across this issue’s three features, a life unfolds. We begin with childhood in 
Chloe Nguyen’s investigation of New Haven’s fragmented early education 
system and the persistent search for a safe, sustainable place of learning. 
Then, in our cover story, Miranda Jeyaretnam explores the weight of decades 
spent serving lengthy prison sentences while investigating Connecticut’s 
commutations process. We reach the end of a life with Anouk Yeh’s 
heartbreaking conversations with the people organizing around medical aid 
in dying—those who have lost the lives of loved ones, or fear the rights to 
their own.

We look, too, at the in-betweens. The things that make our lives feel 
especially funny, embarrassing, too-much-too-quick, distinctly ours. Kinnia 
Cheuk visits a local thrift store, tracing past lives of witchiness and finding 
new queer magic. Abigail Sylvor Greenberg shares the life of a “Kitty Waxer” 
and all the ways she makes you feel vibrant and alive. And Arden Yum takes 
us from Manhattan to Oceanside, following the pace of other lives and 
finding hers, too. 

Thank you to our lifeblood—the writers, editors, designers, website directors, 
and photographers of our magazine. The New Journal is a labor of love, and 
we hope to share that with you in these pages. We are grateful for the 
opportunity to explore these lives with you.

TNJ love,
The Managing Board


**Title: Thank you to our donors**
**Author: [Not specified]**

*Donated twice. Thank you!
Neela Banerjee*
Anson M. Beard
James Carney
Andrew Court 
Romy Drucker 
Jeffrey Foster 
David Gerber 
David Greenberg* 
Matthew Hamel
Makiko Harunari 
James Lowe 
Chaitanya Mehra
Ben Mueller 
Sarah Nutman 
Peter Phleger 
Jeffrey Pollock
Adriane Quinlan 
Elizabeth Sledge 
Gabriel Snyder 
Fred Strebeigh 
Arya Sundaram
Stuart Weinzimer
Steven Weisman 
Suzanne Wittebort


**Title: Lost Time**
**Author: Miranda Jeyaretnam**
**Page number(s): 18**

Connecticut’s commutation policy offers 
incarcerated individuals a second look and a 
chance at a shortened sentence. But what does it 
take to get there?.


**Title: The Debate for Dignity**
**Author: Anouk Yeh**
**Page number(s): 20**

As the dispute over medical aid in dying 
persists, local advocates voice differing ideas on 
how to protect those in pain.


**Title: The Witches on Whitney**
**Author: Kinnia Cheuk**
**Page number(s): 29**

Kinnia Cheuk explores a local thrift store that brings an 
inclusive, queer, and modern notion of witchhood to New Haven.


**Title: The Kitty Waxer and Me**
**Author: Abigail Sylvor Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 30**

A writer’s conversations with waxer Bianca Cali go 
more than skin deep.


**Title: Twin Cities**
**Author: Arden Yum**
**Page number(s): 37**

A writer explores life from Manhattan to Oceanside.


**Title: Startup Costs**
**Author: Chloe Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 38**

Parents and educators alike struggle to 
navigate New Haven’s patchwork of early 
childhood care.


**Title: White Sugar, Devil’s Gold**
**Author: Lazo Gitchos**
**Page number(s): 4**

[This appears to be a photo essay title. No further text provided on this page]


**Title: Meditation on Monday Honey**
**Author: Isabel Menon**
**Page number(s): 6**

[This appears to be a poem title. No further text provided on this page]


**Title: Should I be Blessed With a Son**
**Author: Ellie Atlee**
**Page number(s): 11**



**Title: The Year of Downstream Swimming**
**Author: Netanel Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 12**



**Title: Cake**
**Author: Isabella Panico**
**Page number(s): 42**

[This appears to be a poem title or short story. No further text provided on this page]


**Title: Anti-Fragile**
**Author: Daniella Sanchez**
**Page number(s): 45**



**Title: Remnants of a South Brigade**
**Author: Audrey Coombe**
**Page number(s): 46**



**Title: Barber**
**Author: Dean Farella**
**Page number(s): 47**




**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Kinnia Cbeuk**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
September 2023          TheNewJournal
Points of Departure
The Witches of 
Whitney
M
y first time between the 
clothing racks at Witch Bitch 
Thrift, I was a stranger at an intimate 
conference on the workings of witch­
hood. A stone cat-owl stared at me 
silently. Galaxy-colored soaps carved 
to resemble human torsos stood nearby, 
bound by lengths of black rope in osten­
sibly kinky ways. I found my reflection 
in a small object, labeled a “scrying 
mirror.” The unfamiliar term unnerved 
me—had I violated some unwritten 
rule by looking directly at it? I turned 
to Wikipedia for some relief: “Scrying, 
also referred to as ‘seeing’ or ‘peeping,’ 
is a practice rooted in divination and 
fortune-telling.” I looked up and saw 
no enlightening vision, but noticed the 
friendly fine print underneath the label: 
“Yep, you can take them off the wall to 
look at them!” I heaved a sigh of relief.


A few days later, I sat and talked 
with Virginia Semeghini and Eva 
Ray, who met in music school in 
Connecticut a few years ago and are 
now life partners who run Witch Bitch 
together. Ray was wearing a black 
t-shirt that said “PLACEBO,” her 
undercut visible beneath a headband 
from which felt coconut trees pro­
truded. Semeghini wore a long dark 
flowy skirt and holographic-framed 
glasses, sporting winged eyeliner and 
pointy nails, too. Together, we traced 
the origin of Witch Bitch Thrift.


One morning in 2020, Semeghini 
was sipping coffee, pinching herself 
awake, when she stopped to muse on 
how she wished an “alternative, cool, 
kind of witchy, kind of queer” sec­
ond-hand clothing store existed. “I was 
just throwing words around my brain, 
being like witch bitch thrift, witch 
bitch thrift...? Wait, that sounds really 
cool.” Immediately, she signed up for as 
many social media handles under Witch 
Bitch Thrift as possible and bought the 
domain for the website. 


In retrospect, Semeghini says that 
her sense of urgency to create Witch 
Bitch Thrift stemmed from her desire 
for both accessibility and aesthetic in 
thrifting. Semeghini remembers hear­
ing lots of “horror stories” from queer 
people about walking into the women’s 
or men’s section in a thrift shop, only for 
a staff member to direct them the other 
way. With Ray and Semeghini also 
struggling to find plus-size clothing in 
mainstream thrift stores like Goodwill 
and The Salvation Army, she decided to 
make Witch Bitch Thrift into a space 
where clothing of all sizes and a wide 
range of aesthetics could be found. 


Witch Bitch Thrift began by selling 
clothes online out of Semeghini and 
Ray’s Bridgeport living room. The busi­
ness then moved into the Bridgeport 
Innovation Center, where it was open 
to the public. After outgrowing the 
space, Witch Bitch Thrift—along with 
Ray and Semeghini—officially moved 
to New Haven in January 2023. Even 
before the big move, Witch Bitch 
Thrift had always been inseparable from 
the city of New Haven. After all, the 
store’s largest customer base came from 
New Haven; Ray and Semeghini’s first 
two dates were in the city; and many 
of their regular customers, friends, and 
collaborators lived nearby. Semeghini 
recalls Ray telling  her, “Well, if we 
want to be a big deal, New Haven’s 
definitely the best place.”


Centuries 
before Witch 
Bitch 
Thrift played its part in furthering 
Connecticut’s fascination with all things 
witchy, witchhood had already capti­
vated the popular imagination. In the 
seventeenth century, national atten­
tion to witchcraft first took form as an 
ostracization of the other, resulting in 
the shunning and killing of suspected 
witches. The mass paranoia surrounding 
the Salem Witch Trials was just as much 
about alienating the atypical as it was a 
fear of witchcraft.


Witch Bitch Thrift sets out to 
serve the witch and the witchy alike. 
Witchcraft, 
broadly 
encompassing 
solitary practitioners and followers 
of religions like Wicca, is part of the 
larger contemporary pagan movement 
based on pre-Christian religions and 
cultures. But beyond spiritual affil­
iation, there has been a rise of the 
witchcore aesthetic online. Witchcore 
reclaims and embraces traditional 
witchhood’s unorthodoxy, with fem­
inine-presenting people wearing all 
black, sporting piercings, and reading 
tarots and crystal balls, expanding tra­
ditional boundaries of femininity and 
organized religion. 


Perhaps the alternative nature of 
witchiness encourages its associations 
with queerness. On TikTok, videos 
under the tag #witchylesbians have 
accrued more than one hundred fif­
ty-two thousand views. Yet, in the popu­
lar imagination, witchiness has remained 
in that same narrow stereotype of 
feminine women in black gowns, or as 
Ray puts it, in the style of “black goth,” 
“something you can get out of Hot 
Topic during Halloween,” and “chains, 
D-rings, studs, heavy makeup.” Though 
this aesthetic may seem hyper-specific 
to some, this does not limit Witch Bitch 
Thrift’s cultivation of an open, queer 
community space. 


When Witch Bitch Thrift first 
started posting on Instagram, Ray and 
Semeghini constantly received com­
ments and direct messages from peo­
ple who thought that their items were 
“not witchy enough,” because most of 
Witch Bitch Thrift’s stock strays from 
all-black clothing. But at Witch Bitch 
Thrift, being witchy is less about meet­
ing a set of criteria and more about 
following one’s own intuition and 
beliefs. To Semeghini, who identi­
fies as a practicing witch, “putting out 
illustrations And LayOUT DESIGN by Chris de Santis


5
TheNewJournal          September 2023
transphobic comments on social media. 
If Hogwarts is a demonstration of false 
inclusivity, then Witch Bitch Thrift is 
its antithesis, a place dedicated to being 
a warm and vibrant haven for everyone 
who steps into it.
PHotography by Nithya Guthikonda
your moon water” or “performing your 
rituals regularly” only matters if your 
heart’s in it. To Ray, witchiness does 
not come in any defined form for a 
non-follower of specific sects of witch­
craft. “You can be witchy and dress 
like anything, it’s about you...There 
can’t be a box, if you forget there’s four 
walls there.” 


Witch Bitch Thrift is size-inclusive 
and does not categorize its clothes by 
gender. All items that go through the 
shop are hand-measured, then sorted 
into categories clearly delineated on 
their universal size chart, such that cus­
tomers are not confused by the arbitrary 
sizes that different companies label their 
clothes. In an Instagram Reel, Semeghini 
speaks about how, on their online store, 
there are even armhole or thigh hole 
measurements for each garment, as well 
as fabric tags that flag textures like wool 
and velvet for people with sensory sensi­
tivities. She ends with “What else could 
we do to make it easier? Let us know!”


And customers let them know: last 
year, after pushback, the two decided 
against selling Harry Potter merchan­
dise, considering that J.K. Rowling 
had recently come under fire for her 


Nicholas Shamp and William 
Rosedale, regular customers at Witch 
Bitch Thrift, appreciate that the store 
fills the niche of an alcohol-free, homey 
LGBTQ+ friendly space. To them, 
Witch Bitch Thrift is more than just a 
thrift shop; it’s family. Shamp hand-
painted the store mannequins’ nails. He 
also sewed the curtains for the Witch 
Bitch Black Box, which is a commu­
nity space within the store with a mini 
stage and couches. It’s where Ray and 
Semeghini organize events like drag 
king nights, tarot readings, biweekly 
open mic nights, and a series of con­
certs by acoustic queer artists (aptly 
named Acoustiqueer), attracting audi­
ences from New Haven and beyond.


One time at the store, Ray told me 
that she really liked my sweater. On 
the way out, I stopped in front of the 
scrying mirror and saw my reflection. 
I thought about how my sweater was 
plain, white, and frankly uninteresting. 
I looked myself in the eyes—and felt a 
little bit witchy. ∎	
Kinnia Cbeuk is a sophomore in
Timothy Dwight College and an 
Aossicate Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: The Kitty Waxer and Me**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

6
The Kitty Waxer 
and Me
A writer’s conversations with waxer Bianca Cali go more than skin deep.
Profile
Layout Design And Illustrations by Chris de Santis



**Title: The Kitty Waxer and Me**
**Author: Abigail Sylvor Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7
TheNewJournal          September 2023
B
ianca Cali has two tips for a 
better, less painful Brazilian wax. 
1. For a wider spread, hang one leg 
over the side of the waxing table. This 
makes it easier to access your crevices. 
2. When the wax comes off, cough 
as loudly as you can. This will distract 
you and force you to exhale. 

She shares these tricks with me 
while my body settles into the waxing 
table. The butcher paper underneath me 
crackles. I rest my head on a pink chil­
dren’s pillow decorated with the felted 
ears and tail of a piglet. 

Bianca produces a bottle of baby 
powder and shakes a bit onto the rele­
vant area. I’m told this will create a pro­
tective layer between the hot wax and 
the skin so that when the wax is pulled 
off, it will only bring hair with it, and 
not stray pieces of epidermis. Between 
the pig pillow, the baby powder, and my 
positioning (pantless, belly-up), I can’t 
help but feel like a giant infant on a 
changing table. 

My wax today will be longer and a 
bit more uncomfortable than it would 
be for a returning client, she explains. 
I have arrived with “four phases of 
hair”—in other words, an unkempt 
bush. Bianca will need to work slowly, 
in small sections. She promises that 
she’ll also give me a break between 
strips. “They never do that at the wax 
centers,” she boasts. 

Bianca shuffles between the waxing 
table and a cart to its right where she 
stores her equipment. She keeps the 
wax in a metal warmer that plugs into 
the wall. The wax is a dazzling royal 
blue that gleams like hard candy. When 
she dips her wooden stick into the pot, 
the wax coils in perfect ribbons around 
the instrument. 

A design flaw of the human body is 
that you can’t really see your own crotch 
when you’re lying down. But when I can 
no longer see Bianca’s wand-wielding 
hand, I start to feel it. Hot. She spreads 
a layer of wax, stickier and thicker than 
honey. The viscous glue hardens on my 
skin, plaster-like. 

“We’re gonna apply all the preeees­
sure. We’re gonna do the bikini line 
fiiiiirst. We’re gonna create that liiiiip,” 
Bianca talk-sings, narrating her process. 
The “liiiiiip” (lip), the raised rim on 
the border of a strip of hard wax, allows 
Bianca to grip and tear away the wax 
when it dries (which takes  three min­
utes, give or take). She flicks the edge of 
the strip, upturning the lip, and grabs 
onto it for traction. Then, in one rapid 
yank, she pulls the wax off, uprooting a 
garden of tiny hairs. Per Bianca’s guid­
ance, I cough as hard as I can, making a 
guttural, throat-clearing noise. 

Bianca peers down at me. 
“Not so bad with the cough, right?” 
she asks.
I blink tears out of my eyes and 
respond: “Totally!” 

Over the course of the next twen­
ty-ish minutes, I undergo this same 
process maybe eighteen times. Wax is 
applied. Wax dries. Bianca flicks. I cough. 
Bianca yanks. We both take a break. 

Because this is a Brazilian wax, 
every hair must go, front and back. She 
coaches me into different positions. 
Legs up. Legs down. Open wider. I 
even lie on my side for a second so she 
can access a hard-to-reach spot. (This is 
something, she tells me, she only ever 
makes Jews and Italians do.) 

It’s not my first time getting a 
Brazilian wax, but it is my first time 
getting a Brazilian wax from someone 
I’ve gotten to know, someone who’s told 
me about her past lovers and her bro­
ken washing machine. The strangeness 
of this dawns on me, opportunely, as 
Bianca is probing her wooden stick into 
my butt crack. I almost laugh out loud.


ianca is a girl’s girl. She’s apt to 
start a text with “Hi bubby” or “Hey 
boo.” She has the mettle to castrate a 
bull, but she’d never cut a bitch. She’s an 
indiscriminate hugger, a serial compli­
ment-giver, and a tried and true friend 
to her friends, her friends’ friends, and 
her friends’ friends’ friends.

She speaks in a high-pitched, syr­
upy East Coast fry. Her pale, heart-
shaped face is dominated by big eyes 
and even bigger glasses that could eas­
ily accoutre a “slutty nerd” Halloween 
costume. She has narrow, groomed 
eyebrows and dark hair. At 32 years 
old, she’s not as thin as she used to be. 
Recently diagnosed with the hormonal 
disorder polycystic ovarian syndrome 
(PCOS), she has gained an estimated 30 
pounds in the past few years. This, she 
maintains, has only made her hotter. 

When she’s waxing, she wears 
leggings and tank tops. And at Stella 
Blues, the jazz club where she sings in 
a monthly variety show, she sports lace 
tights, a black A-line mini dress, and a 
metal headband with cat ears. The ears 
are a nod to vaginas, so often made to 
sound feline. On social media she pro­
motes her waxing business under the 
name “Cali the Kitty Waxer.” 

Bianca lives in a second-floor 
walk-up apartment inside a multi-fam­
ily home on Winchester Avenue in New 
Haven, Connecticut. Her apartment 
doubles as her salon, the workspace cor­
doned off from the living room by a coral 
and gray paisley tapestry. 

Next to the window is a plas­
tic-wrapped pedicure chair with an 
empty foot basin. A pop-up spray tan 
tent leans against the back wall, left fal­
low while her tanning gun awaits repair.
A poster for Ariana Grande’s 2018 
pop album Sweetener hangs on the wall. 
On the original album cover, Grande’s 
head is upside down, descending phan­
tom-like from above. But in Bianca’s 
house, the poster has been rotated. The 
text is flipped, unreadable, and Grande 
is right-side-up. 

One of Bianca’s friends, a graf­
fiti artist known as La Croix Artistry, 


--- Page 8 ---

8
September 2023          TheNewJournal
spray-painted a mural on the walls of the 
stairway; it includes a mélange of geo­
metric abstractions, a cartoonish portrait 
of Marilyn Monroe, and a particularly 
yonic crop of pink, petaled flowers. 

If there is a precise border between 
free spirit and hot mess, that’s where 
Bianca lives. A “third shift gal,” she 
regularly sleeps till noon, starting her 
workday as her service-industry clients 
wake up and her Yale student clients get 
out of class. She is constantly effusing 
apologies for petty misdeeds—she’s a 
few minutes late; she missed your call; 
there’s clutter in the living room; she 
just woke up from a nap and forgot to 
put away her bong. 

Most of her clients, I think, like 
this chaos. I certainly do. When the 
one-time director of my college com­
edy group referred me to Bianca, it was 
with the promise of a rollicking time. 
A wax and a performance, like dinner 
and a show.


T
here seems to be an infinity of 
code words for female pubic hair. 
Bush. Fuzz. Forest. Muff. Beaver. 
Landwing strip. Happy trail. Carpet. 
(Does it match the drapes?) Grass on 
the field. (Is there any? Play ball!) The 
language is opaque, positing all kinds 
of bizarre feminine analogues. Woman 
as garden. Woman as airport runway. 
Woman as…baseball diamond? 

It’s no surprise. Even in a post-pussy 
hat world, people still hate vaginas—the 
word “vagina,” images of vaginas. The 
schoolyard game in which children com­
pete to say “penis” the loudest has no 
co-ed counterpart. And even for those 
who can tolerate mention of female geni­
talia, pubes are a bridge too far. 

But most everyone has them.
Pubic hair has a few basic adaptive 
purposes, including regulating body 
temperature, 
retaining 
pheromones, 
and protecting against invisible (but 
apparently very threatening) dirt and 
bacteria. It’s not great to get rid of it, 
but it’s not terrible either. 

Even in the days of yore, women 
groomed their nether parts. Egyptian 
art showcases women with neat trian­
gles of black hair; the edges are rul­
er-straight. Greek statues have hairless 
wedges of crotch between their lush 
marble thighs. These figures speak of 
undiscussed self-mutilations—razoring 
with copper blades, singeing with fire. 

The earliest intimate waxes in the 
modern-day U.S. were bikini waxes, 
which aimed to remove the hairs that 
poked out the sides of a high-cut swim­
suit. This form of waxing emerged in 
the  nineteen-forties as beachwear trends 
skewed skimpier. Navels were exposed, 
cleavage popped, but pubes were a dif­
ferent, less negotiable manner of private 
part. The idea was, and still is, to feign 
ease—to suggest that there was never 
any hair down there to begin with. 

When Hollywood chooses to show 
waxing scenes on-screen, it opts for the 
farcical and slapstick. In an episode of 
Sex and the City credited with popular­
izing the Brazilian wax among its view­
ers, the camera trains its gaze on Carrie 
Bradshaw’s twisted brow. A miscom­
munication leads to more hair removal 
than Bradshaw bargained for, and her 
mouth puckers into sexy shock as her 
stiletto-clad leg remains impossibly 
high in the air. (The double punchline: 
Bradshaw loves her new hairless snatch 
and returns for repeat treatments.) 

Why do we do it? Because it feels…
cleaner? Because it looks…younger? 
These answers seem inescapably misog­
ynistic and perverse. 

I’m not sure why I got my first inti­
mate wax. I was in eighth grade, and I 
was mystified by my own body, always 
searching desperately for cues from 
friends and older women to know what 
was expected. I ambled into my local 
branch of the popular waxing chain 
European Wax Center and asked for 
a clean-up job ahead of a family vaca­
tion. It was terribly painful and not 
very thorough. On my middle school 
allowance, I couldn’t afford the salon’s 
proprietary “ingrown hair serum.” The 
woman at the front desk tried to sched­
ule me for a standing monthly appoint­
ment. Balking at this commitment, I 
didn’t return for years. 

Then, at 17, the arrival of my first 
serious boyfriend brought the topic 
back to the fore. Thorough research 
on the now-defunct website Yahoo 
Answers indicated that all men found 
women’s pubes disgusting. I discovered 
that a lot of my friends had gotten laser 
hair removal, undergoing serial, pain­
ful procedures throughout high school 
to weaken their follicles. It felt like the 
task of managing my grooming was a 
test for which I hadn’t studied. 

I think, optimistically, that the fac­
tors driving women to the waxing table 
are subtler and more varied than mere 
bikinis and boyfriends—a matted tan­
gle of our wishes for ourselves, our anx­
ieties about how our partners will see us, 
our impressions of what kind of women 
we are, some basic sensory preferences. 
These negotiations are usually private 
and often subconscious. 

Yet, no matter how personal and 
intimate our waxing practices are, the 
choice feels inescapably supervised.


A
fter doing her own brows for 
years, Bianca started waxing other 
women in 2008, when she enrolled at 
Central Connecticut State University. 
Just eyebrows at first. She declined for­
mal pay in favor of free drinks at the 
school bar. She loved it. If not for her 
mother’s admonition, Bianca would 
have simply dropped out and pursued 
beauty school. Grudgingly, she finished 
her degree in fine art, then entered 
esthetics training the same year.  This 
was where her waxing repertoire grew 
to include bikini waxes and Brazilians.

The first few professional waxing 
jobs brought frustration. At a men’s 
barber shop, she was stuck in a back 
room and gossiped-about in “really dia­
lect Italian” by the otherwise male staff. 
She eventually realized she was work­
ing for a mafia front, and quit.

Even worse than working for the mob 
was her job at the European Wax Center 
branch in Greenwich, Connecticut. There, 
she waxed rich soccer moms for poor pay. 
“You’d have to wax six vaginas an hour to 
make more than $15,” she estimates. 

When she tells me that she supple­
mented this meager income by working 


--- Page 9 ---

9
at a go-go bar in Yonkers, New York, 
I note that this sounds retro and not 
like something they have in Yonkers. 
Quickly, she corrects herself. “It was a 
topless strip club,” she admits. 

The managers of City Lights Strip 
Club originally gave Bianca a position as 
a shot girl—defined on Urban Dictionary 
as a “beautiful woman at the club that is 
too hot to strip, too stupid to bartend.” 
Bianca made good tips but feared she was 
a thorn in the side of the harder-working 
strippers. To really earn her keep, she 
needed to become a dancer herself. 

The more experienced strippers 
at the club taught her how to twerk, 
took her to the Bronx to buy her first 
pair of Pleasers (a type of stripper heel 
favored for its grip), and introduced her 
to a woman named Miss Jamaica who 
sewed luxury brand logos onto whole­
sale leotards. This delighted Bianca, 
who aspired in her youth to be a bur­
lesque dancer, and in her even earlier 
youth to be Liza Minelli.  

As a stripper, she learned to grift 
like never before, traversing the club 
circuit with a dancer from Russia who 
posed as her twin sister: Lana and 
Natasha, they called themselves. “She 
taught me,” says Bianca, “that there is 
always a way to make money.” 

Bianca also quickly realized that 
nobody needed consistent hair removal 
more than strippers. She carved out a 
niche for herself, waxing the dancers at 
her own club and the surrounding ones. 
By the summer of 2015, Bianca had 
something of a monopoly on East Coast 
stripper pubes. Her domain stretched 
from New York to Rhode Island. She 
drove to different cities, rented hotel 
rooms, and waxed the dancers en masse. 

To this day, Bianca maintains that 
strippers are the best clients. They’re 
friendly and appreciative. They tip 
well. They get it. She also believes that 
being a stripper made her a better waxer, 
someone impervious to the garishness 
of naked bodies. She grew comfortable 
enough in her own skin to set others at 
ease in theirs. 

Bianca returned to the compara­
tively dull world of Connecticut salons 
emboldened by the enterprising spirit 
of her stripper days. She started a new 
racket. She took jobs at established 
chains, among them Tommy’s Salon 
and Bluemercury, then poached cli­
ents and began to build her home salon 
between gigs. 

Other than one occasion when she 
was giving a “Manzillian” and acci­
dentally tore off a piece of a client’s 
testicle, Bianca has had remarkably few 
waxing disasters. This is because she is 
a very good waxer. Good enough that 
she could do it in her sleep, she tells me. 
Good enough that she’s done it while 
drunk, she also tells me. 

The best evidence of how good she 
is, however, is that she’s earned the right 
to have fun while she works. She sings, 
and gabs, and monologues, bitching 
about the ex-boyfriend she keeps sleep­
ing with. She’s found that being in an 
exclusive relationship with him makes 
him “protective, and, like, annoying.” 
She still walks his dog.  

A man, to Bianca, is a lot like a dog 
that needs to be walked, or at best, a 
big tipper at the strip club. Her focus is 
on women. She has seen the vaginas of 
moms and mommies, strippers and shot 
girls and sorority sisters. She calls every­
one a “girl,” to their faces and behind 
their backs, whether they are 18  or 80 , 
old friends or new acquaintances. 

Once, as I lay on the waxing table, 
she incanted: “The girls are back. We’re 
all together.” It was just the two of us 
in the room, and I was confused by the 
plurality, girls, and I didn’t know where 
we were back from. Still, I liked the 
ring of it: 
The girls are back. We’re all together. 

Bianca gives the best wax I’ve ever 
had. She’s the fastest and the thor­
ough-est, and the most adept at loos­
ening the grip of my self-consciousness. 
“Naked is naked,” she says of the pre­
sumed awkwardness of her job. “Fluid 
is fluid.” She’s seen it all, and it’s all 
more alike than different. 

At 21 years old, I’ve now had more 
Brazilian waxes than I can count. But 
I still feel a childlike ineptitude every 
time I get waxed. My hastily-folded 
underwear, dropped on some chair 
beside the waxing table, looks incon­
gruous, ratty, juvenile. My legs are 
hideous on the table—wide and veiny 
and gray, with their own crop of sud­
denly-obvious stubble. I wonder: Is my 
body the worst, weirdest body that this 
waxer has ever seen? 

But still, I am fearful from the 
first strip to the last, not because I’m 
scared it will hurt—hell, I know it will 
hurt—but because, even though all I 
have to do is lie there, I feel like I’m 
doing it wrong.


O
n a few occasions, I try to bait 
Bianca into confessing that she 
sees what’s problematic in the whole 
ordeal. I expect she might say that she 
knows waxing is a patriarchal con, but 
she’s learned to profit from it like a 
sleazy girlboss. 

I say, “I wish they’d invent an easier 
way of doing this.” 
She says, “This is pretty easy.” 

I tell her that some of my friends 
from college are “rockin’ full bush.” 
“We gotta tell them,” she says, as she 
begins to scheme for a punch-card system. 

I ask her why she thinks people 
get waxed. 
“I feel like it takes half your life to 
shave your body.”

Eventually, I stop trying to force 
this concession. I know that fork­
ing over $80  to get all my pubic hair 
painfully pulled off is a transaction in 
a rigged economy whose two curren­
cies are money and hotness. I know 
it’s something men don’t have to do, 
something I shouldn’t—and really 
don’t—have to do. 



**Title: The Kitty Waxer and Me**
**Author: Abigal Sylvor Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
But the body is wracked with prob­
lems, and there is a comfort in Bianca’s 
determination that at least some of 
those problems can be solved. 
PCOS, the hormonal condition 
from which Bianca suffers, brings 
a host of frustrating and intractable 
metabolic and fertility problems. But 
its telltale symptom is the growth of 
an above-average amount of face and 
body hair. Because of this, Bianca’s 
own grooming routine includes not 
only frequent self-waxing, but also 
perpetual plucking and even facial 
lasering—a multi-front effort to keep 
her body hair at bay.

Knowing how PCOS works, I can 
understand why Bianca might feel that 
hair is a manifest badness to be excised. 
A thick strand protruding from the skin 
is a weed in a garden—pesky, unwanted, 
and always growing back. This is a feel­
ing I can relate to. Hand me a pair of 
tweezers and I will wage war on a lone 
chin hair. It can feel heroic to purge 
oneself of the brittle, wiry enemy. 
Yes, hair is “natural,” but if you 
think every natural bodily function is 
perfect and good, you probably don’t 
have a period, or thighs that touch. 
Some parts of the female body are bad, 
not because the patriarchy said so, but 
because they hurt, or itch, or feel weird. 
Waxing might be a trap, but so 
is the body. So what if I want to be 
smooth as a seal? 

O
n one rainy day, when it is 
already dark outside, I step into 
Bianca’s apartment, and she greets me 
with a hug. 
The air is musty with stale weed and 
incense. The bottom hems of my pants 
are wet. Bianca’s cat, Boxer, sleeps with 
heaving breath. On the TV, there is 
an animation she sets up for ambiance: 
a table, set al-fresco with coffee mugs, 
doodled lines of steam trailing upward. 
In the corner, a black sandwich board 
bears the inscription “CAFE VIBES.” 
When I get on the table, Bianca 
tries, as always, to give me a good wax, 
quick and painless. She complains 
about the same dude as always, who 
borrowed her car and ran the gas down 
to zero and didn’t refill it. 
When she’s finished, she goes back 
in with tweezers for any rogue hairs she’s 
missed. It’s a series of rapid pricks, and 
each one hurts a different way, a different 
amount. The surprise is the worst part.  
In a few weeks, each hair will 
return, poking to the surface as if to say: 
think again, bitch. 
She smears a last blue strip on my 
lower abdomen. This part I can see—my 
own hip bones rising, my muscles seiz­
ing. My body never gets used to the 
shock of the heat, the fury of the pull. 
She rips it off with abandon. 
“That last one,” she says, “is because 
I love you.” ∎
Abigal Sylvor Greenberg is a junior 
in Pierson College.


**Title: Barber**
**Author: Dean Farella**
**Page number(s): 11**

When I get my haircut I like to imagine 
The barber is you. 
I don’t notice the Eminem playing 
or the feline purr of the clippers 
or the whir of electricity 
from the shop’s neon Suavecito sign. 
I think about his big and soft hands 
that press my ear to my cheek 
and crane my neck back 
showing me that I’m handsome. 
Me looking into the mirror 
You looking at me and finally asking 
How was your day? 
Got plans this weekend? 
and you are beside me 
grazing my temples 
measuring and sectioning out strands of me, 
carefully untangling each one 
while I gaze, dimly 
thinking about those fake silver rings 
that leave turquoise specters around your giant 
fingers that once petted my stubble like a stray cat. 
So when I see my haircut is uneven 
and I know it’ll have to grow it out again I still 
tell him 
It’s just what I asked for! 
I’ll see you again! 
That way I leave without losing 
more than that to an EyeVac.
—Dean Farella
Poetry
Illustration by Chris de Santis


**Title: Startup Costs**
**Author: Chloe Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 12**

Parents and educators alike struggle to navigate New 
Haven’s patchwork of early childhood care.
Startup Costs
By Chloe Nguyen
layout design by Jessica Sánchez	
Georgia Goldburn in the playground of 
Hope for New Haven.



**Title: The Cost of Care: How Underfunded Childcare Hurts Everyone**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Throughout her decades-long career, 
Georgia Goldburn vowed never to close 
the doors of her childhood development 
center. Goldburn, Executive Director of Hope 
for New Haven and a child care industry vet­
eran, was determined to run her programming—
despite tens of thousands of dollars worth of 
debt, high staff turnover, and overall financial 
instability. After navigating the risks of oper­
ating through COVID-19, Goldburn reviewed 
her business’s 2022 finances. She realized the 
sum she could afford to pay her teachers was 
less than the amount they would receive from 
unemployment benefits.


Goldburn’s motivations to operate exceed 
a financial bottom line. They have to. Goldburn 
has committed herself to providing early child­
hood education to Black and brown communities. 
She has observed firsthand how a lack of targeted 
childhood support services, insufficient teacher 
compensation, and inaccessibility of high-quality 
educational programs influences outcomes in the 
community she calls home.


Goldburn’s program Hope for New Haven 
centers under-resourced communities of color. 
Her mission is to consolidate educational 
resources for minority groups emerging from 
her community. 
“What we want is for people of color to 
still have those connections without having to 
leave a community to achieve economic success,” 
Goldburn told me. She emphasized that it is not 
enough to haplessly invest money into under­
served populations without being conscious about 
keeping those groups connected.


“You have to be intentional in how you bring 
money into child care,” she said. 
The system of reallocation is not always 
an equitable one. According to Eva Bermúdez 
Zimmerman, Coalition Director of Child Care 
for Connecticut’s Future, the state’s solution for 
early education is a general stabilization fund 
for licensed child care programs, leaving every­
one haggling. Subsequently, the investment can 
bypass communities most in need and manifest in 
short-sighted solutions, such as inserting children 
into affluent neighborhoods rather than fortify­
ing their local resources. 


Before 2021, universal early child care in 
Connecticut was unheard of until the formation 
of Child Care for Connecticut’s Future, a coalition 
with campaign goals of securing fair compensation 
for educators and more affordable child care for all.


Providers, who range from close relatives tak­
ing care of children to those working at childcare 
centers like Goldburn, understand that when 
they show up to their jobs, parents can show 
up for theirs. The effect bolsters the economy 
and the broader state community. As Executive 
Director of the Buffett Early Childhood Institute, 
Dr. Walter Gilliam quips: “Child care is like the 
road…if it doesn’t work, you can’t get to work.”


But nationwide, legislators and policymakers 
do not treat early childhood care as a fully subsi­
dized public good. Unlike kindergarten through 
high school, early childhood education does not 
fall under the funding and discretion of a stan­
dardized public school system. The closest thing 
Connecticut has to a universal early child care 
system is its twenty-two Head Start programs, 
state-subsidized 
school 
readiness 
preschool 
programs that serve more than 5,539 children 
and families. But these programs often contain 
waitlists of over a hundred families and struggle 
to employ qualified teachers. The local govern­
ment’s other stopgap—a program called “Care 4 
Kids” that subsidizes the cost of child care from 
a wide range of providers—can prove inadequate 
or simply too obscure. Parents and educators alike 
are thus primarily left to navigate a complicated 
patchwork of funding, care options, and availabil­
ity alone—with plenty of barriers to access. 


Every dollar spent on child care, 
Gilliam noted, yields $7.30 in “society savings.” 
These savings represent the money gained back 
when a child has a safe educational environment, 
the chance to secure their degree and employment, 
and ultimately the tools to become a produc­
tive citizen. According to the Early Childhood 
Alliance, the first one thousand days of life is the 
most significant time for secure attachment and 
brain development. Goldburn noted that 80 to 90 
percent of a child’s brain has already developed by 
the time they are 4 and 5 years old. For this reason, 
early childhood educators are pivotal in nurturing 
those basic, life-altering skills that are underesti­
mated yet critical.


Despite the need for these crucial skills, pol­
icymakers and lobbyists alike often neglect to 
fund early childhood education. This is perplexing 
because, as Gilliam notes: “Anytime something is 
considered an infrastructure and essential to life 
and the general public can’t afford it, the govern­
ment subsidizes it.” If that were the case, early 
childhood education should have been queued 
years ago.


“If someone isn’t gonna get rich off of it, [a 
bill] might not pass,” Gilliam told me. He noted 
that to pass a policy funding early child care, the 
proposal must characterize the care as necessary 
to other things constituents care about, namely 
their own assets. While child care buttresses 
familial life, business often takes precedence.


Early childhood education, then, presents a 
difficult business model. Many childcare centers 
struggle to generate revenue and fairly compen­
sate staff, incentivizing fewer people to join the 
field. A third of programs operate in debt, and 71.8 
percent are short-staffed. Providers and parents 
across Connecticut, particularly those who belong 
to and serve marginalized populations, are often 
forced to make decisions in a broken, contradic­
tory market. 


In the spring of 2022, the median wage of 
a childcare professional was $14.97 per hour, 
hardly exceeding the state minimum wage of $14 
at the time. Many of these professionals have 
earned their associate’s and bachelor’s degrees, 
and yet they are compensated like entry-level 
workers. Bermúdez Zimmerman told me that 
both locally and nationally, solutions for recov­
ering the funding deficit are still in the early 
stages. While there are state-subsidized read­
iness programs, they struggle to employ and 
retain qualified staff members. 


“It’s a rotating door, it’s not sustainable,” 
Bermúdez Zimmerman said. Educators seek 
security amidst a shortage of qualified staff, 
the backbone but most challenging aspect of 
the industry.


Devonna Lewis, who currently teaches at a 
New Haven public school pre-kindergarten pro­
gram, experienced the impact of this pay firsthand. 
Lewis began her career in early education at a 
private center. At the time, she was a 24-year-old 
single mother seeking child care for her daughter. 
Now, decades later, even after receiving her asso­
ciate’s degree, little has changed as far as finan­
cial insecurity in the industry. Lewis told me that 
there is no way to win—either hardly subsist on 
minimum wage or make $10 beyond the thresh­
old and lose out on food stamps, healthcare, and 
other government assistance covered under state 
general financial assistance programs. 


Yet while childcare professionals struggle to 
make ends meet, infant care in Connecticut is 
still prohibitively expensive—25.5 percent more 
per year than in-state tuition for a four-year pub­
lic college. According to Goldburn, educators 
mostly use revenue for technical maintenance 
like fixing licensing issues, facility repairs, and 
citations. Despite the need for these programs, 
many childhood educators are struggling to 
swim in a market of contradictions—a highly 
competitive landscape with three thousand, eight 
hundred staff vacancies and an essential service 
barely treading water. The money parents pay is 
not streaming into teachers’ pockets; rather, it is 
financing overhead costs.


Lottie Brown, another New Haven-based 
childcare provider, runs her decade-old business 
out of her home, a completely baby-proofed 
facility with a colorful array of puz­
zles, art supplies, and occupied gar­
dening trays. In Brown’s experience 
working in her own business and 
the New Haven public school sys­
tem, classrooms serve as safe havens 
for young children. According to 
Brown, some of these children were 
born surrounded by drug usage—3-
year-olds have come into Brown’s care 
cursing and sporting “drug parapher­
nalia.” “What happens to that child 
who found her mother unresponsive?” 
Brown asked. Her experience with 
children who have been brought up in 
unsafe circumstances propelled her to 
step in as a childcare professional.


Developing and operating an early 
childcare program requires a level of 
attention and care that far transcends 
the glorified babysitter stigma—that 
the extent of the job is merely mon­
itoring children. Early childhood 
educators find themselves preparing 
both academic and emotional toolkits. 
To help build their confidence and 
self-esteem, Brown encourages her 
students to engage with one another 
and their surroundings. 


“Children need structure, but they 
also need opportunities to learn with­
out teacher-directed things,” Brown 
told me. Purging her program of digi­
tal devices, teaching her students how 
to garden, and helping them pick up a 
paintbrush all allow the children under 
Brown’s care to advance lifelong skills.


But a solid curriculum is not 
enough for a program to thrive, 
according to Goldburn. The program 
has to be marketable. Improving 
retention rates and appealing to wealthy patrons 
means that her program and many others must 
spend their income to comply with industry 
standards and bring in quality resources. When 
facilities are struggling to meet those expecta­
tions, Brown reflects, licensing divisions and 
families alike may perceive the program to be 
lower in quality. Yet centers can only work within 
their means. Less than a third of childcare cen­
ters in Connecticut report a positive cash flow. 
Without the money to afford expensive facil­
ities and equipment, childcare programs must try 
to circumvent whatever judgment that might be 
easy for onlookers to pass. “All people are left with 
is what they see,” Goldburn said. And what many 
see are centers that are providing high-quality care 
without high-quality resources. Achieving such 
standards has a price tag, namely, the enormous 
wage penalty paid by early childhood educators. It is 
a financial burden taken on primarily by women of 
color—whose labor is underpaid and undervalued. 


“Had it been a male-dominated 
industry, would we be facing the same 
challenges?” Anna Witkowski, Chief 
Education Officer for the Children’s 
Learning Centers of Fairfield County, 
asked me pointedly. Out of her one 
hundred forty employees, two are 
men. A previous male employee left 
to work at a Target, which paid $27 an 
hour compared to the $17.50 he made 
hourly as an early childhood educator. 


In an industry sustained by 
women—who comprise about 94 
percent of childcare workers—these 
professionals struggle to disband 
the notions of glorified babysitting 
and passivity often associated with 
their jobs.


Friends Center for Children 
Executive Director Allyx Schiavone 
explained that the societal denigra­
tion of contemporary early childhood 
educators exists within a history of 
exploitation. She urges us to con­
front a parallel reality: “The child­
care system was born out of slavery.” 
Throughout 
antebellum 
America, 
Black enslaved women cared for 
the children of white slave own­
ers. Modern disparities in education 
staffing and access embody the legacy 
of centuries worth of subjugation. 


“When we become so habituated 
to neglecting and exploiting a group,” 
Gilliam explained, “it becomes easier 
to not think about them at all.” 
Disregarding the experiences and 
histories of women of color perpetu­
ates a childcare system that exploits 
their labor. Goldburn confirmed that 
the financial struggles experienced by 
childcare industry professionals are most acute in 
marginalized communities. Black early educators 
are paid on average $0.78 less per hour than their 
white peers, which adds up to more than one 
thousand dollars lost annually.


Connecticut provides a state-subsidized 
childcare program—Care 4 Kids—to fami­
lies with an income of less than 60 percent of the 
state median income. It is the only subsidy-based 
childcare program in the state of its kind in that 
it supports independent providers. And while 
many families benefit greatly from the financial 
assistance, most still have to make partial pay­
ments, upwards of 30 percent of their income, to 
keep their children enrolled in child care. 


According to the state’s plan for the fed­
eral Child Care and Development Fund, Care 
4 Kids reimbursed 52 percent of the market rate 
for infant and toddler care and 30 percent of 
that for preschoolers. A discrepancy between 
the true cost of child care and what providers 
receive leaves parents struggling to pay the dif­
ference on their own. This divide—coupled with 
slow processing time and a lack of easily available 
knowledge—limits Care 4 Kids’ ability to fully 
aid Connecticut parents.


The Care 4 Kids website defines childcare 
providers as early childhood centers licensed by 
the Connecticut Office of Early Childhood or 
a close relative designated to watch over a child. 
Care 4 Kids sends a Child Care Certificate to 
admitted applicants, which authorizes pay­
ment for services for up to a year. Families must 
undergo an annual redetermination process to 
reaffirm their eligibility for the program.


Throughout the final months of 2022, Care 
4 Kids covered a considerable portion of New 
Haven mom Christina Moore’s childcare fees. 
Like the families of more than twenty-five 
thousand other children enrolled in Care 4 Kids, 
Moore met an income limit of less than 60 per­
cent of the State Median Income. She needed a 
daycare to supplement her efforts to support her 
son’s learning while she worked full-time. With 
the promise of these subsidies, Moore enrolled 
her 2-year-old son in daycare. 


But even with the state aid, her son’s child 
care placed an increasingly heavy financial burden 
on her family. Due to a marginal increase in her 
income, Moore had to pay a “family fee”—an out-
of-pocket cost based on her gross income—to 
keep her son enrolled in daycare when he turned 
3. As Care 4 Kids withdrew part of their financial 
assistance, Moore started sending her son to day­
care two days a week instead of five. She had to 
adjust her work schedule to accommodate her son 
being home. 


Moore moved her son into another pre-kin­
dergarten readiness program this past year. But 
the new center had not been inspected. Childcare 
centers in Connecticut are expected to undergo 
state-mandated health and safety inspections, 
including training requirements in CPR, medi­
cation administration, and other forms of emer­
gency preparedness. But centers are expected to 
front the cost of inspection—a cost that some 
cannot afford. 


If Moore had been forced to foot the bill while 
seeking Care 4 Kids coverage, she would have had 
to sacrifice a third of her mortgage in the name of 
keeping her son enrolled in daycare. 


Photography by Kris AZIABOR	



**Title: Startup Costs**
**Author: Chloe Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
TheNewJournal
desperately needed financing—is to advocate for 
themselves, time and time again. 


Over the last few years, the pandemic 
compounded frustrations that had always 
existed among parents and educators. In 2021, 
Connecticut received $346 million in federal 
COVID-19 relief funding, dedicated specifically 
to providing operational support for stability 
and expansion in the childcare industry. But that 
one-time funding has now dried up. Meanwhile, 
childcare professionals risked their lives daily to 
uphold their commitments to their students and 
their communities, as well as the broader economy. 
There was no better opportunity for the state to 
show its appreciation than the 2022-2023 Biennial 
Budget Report, the first iteration of which was 
approved by the legislature in 2021.

A year later in February of 2022, upon 
the release of forecasted budget adjustments, 
Goldburn waited three days to allow the policy 
team at the Connecticut Voices for Children and 
Connecticut Early Childhood Alliance to analyze 
childcare centers’ budgets. The Alliance confirmed 
her worst fears: Connecticut legislators had allo­
cated no additional funding to support the indus­
try. In the next two weeks, Goldburn and her 
colleagues—Bermúdez Zimmerman from Child 
Care for Connecticut and Schiavone, along with 
other providers and policy experts representing 
childcare centers, coalitions, and universal child 
care campaigns across the state—mobilized. On 
March 15, 2022, three hundred and fifty childcare 
professionals, parents, and their children staged 
a “Morning Without Child Care” demonstration 
on the New Haven Green from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. 
Goldburn and her colleagues stepped away from 
their work lives to demonstrate what would hap­
pen if the childcare industry withdrew their ser­
vices, even if just for an hour. 

“We struggled about removing what [fami­
lies] need to survive to ‘punish’ or raise awareness 
for decision-makers,” Schiavone said about the 
ethical dilemma of hitting pause on the workforce. 
Educators feared if they had not called people to 
action, no one would have.

The action worked. In May of 2022, 
Connecticut boasted a shiny new armistice: “The 
biggest investment in child care [and] education…
in our state’s history.” The amended 2022-2023 
biennial budget report allocated $183 million to 
the early childhood education industry, a more 
than twofold increase in what they had been 
previously receiving from the state. “There was 
a straight line between what we did in that rally 
and what was put in the budget,” Goldburn told 
me. And still, this figure represented just a quarter 
of the investment needed for survival.

The message of the first “Morning Without 
Child Care” rally in 2022 resonated with child­
care providers, parents, and families nationwide. 
Advocates in Connecticut more than doubled 
their state’s investment in early childhood and 
education center held off on charging her from 
February through June while Care 4 Kids evalu­
ated its case. Moore was not interested in paying 
a “second mortgage” for child care—and neither 
was her sister, Karla Hicks. Following Moore’s 
advice, Hicks applied for the Care 4 Kids subsidy 
in September of 2022 and was approved within a 
month, just before the annual wave of fall appli­
cations. Hicks attributes her acceptance to the 
good fortune of insider knowledge: “If you don’t 
know about [Care 4 Kids] on your own, you 
would never know about it.”

Jameila McKee, a full-time working mother 
of two infants and a New Haven resident, also 
found Care 4 Kids’ uncertain process to inter­
fere with her job. In McKee’s experience, the 
stress was not only in affording daycare but also 
in finding an available one. McKee’s Care 4 Kids 
application was a several-month-long process 
that could not begin until after her acceptance 
and commitment to a daycare, many of which 
have sizable waitlists. McKee was working full 
time and struggled to simultaneously tour day­
cares and continue paying her bills. While day­
care providers aim to uphold their commitment 
to foster partnerships between educators and 
parents, not every parent can afford to take on 
their part of that commitment.

Another New Haven parent, Asia Huff, 
had heard of Care 4 Kids, but her knowledge of 
the program was limited until after giving birth, 
when a woman started visiting with check-ins, 
plug covers, pantry items, gift cards, and the 
suggestion that she apply. The woman was an 
agent for the Nurturing Families Network, a 
state-funded program that strives to work col­
laboratively with “high-risk first-time parents” 
by providing educational and emotional relief. 
Free of charge, she supported Huff postpar­
tum, including advising her on the Care 4 Kids 
application. “Without the woman that comes 
to visit me, I would be lost,” Huff told me. 

The parents I spoke with emphasized how 
Care 4 Kids is wrapped in an implicit exclu­
sivity—and these barriers to entry complicate 
its mission to help families most in need. Each 
of the mothers I spoke with—Moore, Hicks, 
Huff, and McKee—shared an anticipation for 
the glory age of 5 when they could finally defer 
to the public school system to receive guaran­
teed state-funded education. Only then will 
they no longer have to strictly budget their 
family finances just to ensure their children are 
cared for. 


After Class
U
ltimately, educators and parents 
alike seem to realize the only way to achieve 
more state and national support—including 
September 2023
saw legal recognition from President Biden as he 
issued an executive order to support affordable 
care and quality jobs for care professionals. The 
work of Goldburn and her colleagues reignited 
within a nationwide effort on March 8, 2023—
International Women’s Day—demanding an 
equitable and just care system. Schiavone said 
that this second effort “solidified us [childcare 
professionals] as workers that could turn out con­
stituents. It brought us together as a community 
in ways we’ve never been connected.” In this sec­
ond wave of rallying, advocates were motivated 
by the residual unfulfilled costs from the previous 
fiscal year and the latest budget report released 
in February which boasted what Goldburn 
described as mere “marginal increases.”

The 2024-2025 state budget added $67.5 mil­
lion to Care 4 Kids, an 11 percent increase since 
the initial forecast which was projected to account 
for seventeen thousand children statewide. But 
there were still 18,384 unenrolled children to be 
accounted for who were left without child care 
upon the forced closures of 11.3 percent of class­
rooms that could not afford to stay open as of 
this past May. So while more money was made 
available to providers amid the withdrawal of fed­
eral COVID-19 relief funding, supply remained 
limited. With fewer openings, families who 
could pay the competitive rates of child care out 
of pocket would take precedence over those who 
could not. Ultimately, the names of the families 
with the least means would be the ones collecting 
dust on the waiting lists.

Change is about turning power over to the 
early childcare workforce, one that has been long 
neglected and underestimated. The Connecticut 
legislature recently passed a bill that would 
push the eligibility for kindergarteners so that a 
third of children born in 2019 would have their 
enrollment delayed into elementary school. The 
educational system skeleton is delicate and dis­
jointed. The additional strain this would place 
on educators and parents speaks volumes about 
who should get to decide the flow of money and 
resources in this industry. Nonetheless, there will 
be educators who show up to their jobs so that 
everyone else can show up for their communities, 
even when it brushes the impossible.

Bermúdez Zimmerman raised the propo­
sition of a flexible spending account, ideated by 
those at the Child Care for Connecticut’s Future 
coalition. In April, Governor Lamont issued an 
executive order to initiate a Blue Ribbon Panel 
on Child Care made up of parents, educators, and 
legislators that would be charged with developing 
a five-year strategic plan for the childcare system. 
The American Rescue Plan is set to issue another 
round of funds for Connecticut’s cities. 

At the time of publication, $10 million is 
slated to be allocated to New Haven’s youth, and 
the city intended to reserve $3 million for child 
care, to be partly administered by Goldburn’s 
advocacy non-profit organization CERCLE, a 
component of Hope for New Haven. 

“This is the beginning of a conversation,” 
Bermúdez Zimmerman told me. 

Establishing some type of trust or giving 
private businesses public features are other ways 
in which people could orient their solution-for­
ward thinking. Bermúdez Zimmerman gave the 
example of a quasi-public structure, which would 
provide private programs with a public mandate 
to deliver their services. Converting money and 
power into the hands of industry professionals 
would make it so that “legislature does not have 
authority to dip their hands into whatever they 
want,” according to Bermúdez Zimmerman. 

Early childhood educators are entrusted with 
the lives of the community’s children daily, they 
should also be entrusted with their financial 
independence.

“I’m more optimistic than I’ve ever been,” 
Bermúdez Zimmerman admits. “The last two 
years have been the most fruitful in getting legis­
lators to pay attention. Things are tough now, but 
we’re doing our work.”  ∎

Chloe Nguyen is a sophomore in 
Saybrook College and an Associate Editor 
with The New Journal
Startup Costs
Inside Hope for New Haven.


**Title: Remnants of a South Brigade**
**Author: Audrey Coombe**
**Page number(s): 18**

Photo Essay
Manhattan, NY
Coney Island, NY
2023 



**Title: Lost Time**
**Author: Miranda Jeyaretnam**
**Page number(s): 20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Connecticut’s commutation policy offers incarcerated 
individuals a second look and a chance at a shortened 
sentence. But what does it take to get there?




**Title: Lost Time**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22
TheNewJournal
Lost Time
D
arrell Atkinson’s hands trembled 
as he carved at the metal bar, sharpening 
it till it was a kind of knife. “Forever My 
Lady” by Jodeci dragged through the air, cranked 
out over 94.3 WYBC. Up until that day, he still 
had hope. He had spent two years in the jail on 
Whalley Avenue and at Northern Correctional 
Facility, Connecticut’s only supermax prison, 
awaiting his day in court. He’d rejected a plea 
bargain of forty-eight years and instead insisted 
on a jury trial, maintaining his innocence. But 
that day, March 4, 1994, he was found guilty and 
sentenced to ninety years in prison.

That night, the first night of his lifelong 
sentence, he held the makeshift knife to his 
chest. He closed his eyes and saw the face of his 
mother. The look on her face said: Boy, don’t you 
do it. He sighed, dropping the knife. He had four 
children—three sons and a daughter—and he 
wanted to see them grow up. He wanted to be 
able to hold them again someday.

Twenty-nine years later, Atkinson’s voice 
grew softer as he told me about his family, and 
about how painful it was not to see them for the 
thirty-one years he served in prison. I’m the sec­
ond person to learn of his attempted suicide, he 
said. The first was his mother, who died while he 
was incarcerated.

Atkinson is out of jail, now—living in a 
halfway house, speaking with me—because of 
Connecticut’s commutation policy. He was one 
of the 106 people in Connecticut to receive a sen­
tence commutation since December 2021, reduc­
ing his sentence by fifty-nine years. 

While Atkinson knows it as the tool that 
gave him his freedom, Connecticut’s commu­
tation policy has proven both contentious and 
precarious. In just the past five years, the pro­
cess has been halted and amended with stricter 
parameters multiple times. Debates between 
victims’ advocates, incarcerated people, lawyers, 
and political figures configure commutations in a 
perpetual state of flux—seemingly straddling the 
lines between justice and injustice, rehabilitation 
and punishment. 

The Extraordinary Option

I
n Connecticut, people like Atkinson—
those incarcerated for certain violent crimes 
including felony murder—are ineligible for parole. 
Instead, incarcerated individuals serving lengthy 
sentences have several avenues for amending their 
sentence. The first option, and probably the most 
difficult, is a direct appeal within thirty days of a 
conviction. The second is to file a habeas corpus, 
a petition for a new trial. The third is a sentence 
modification, which is decided by a judge. And 
the fourth is a sentence commutation.

A sentence commutation, rather than an 
appeal or habeas, does not reverse a conviction. 
But the chances of winning an appeal are low: 
Atkinson filed multiple habeas corpus petitions 
for an appeal while incarcerated, in both cases 
arguing ineffective counsel. Each time, a judge 
denied his petition.

The crux of the debate around commuta­
tions lies in whether or not individuals convicted 
of violent crimes deserve a second look. Miriam 
Gohara, a Clinical Professor of Law at the Yale 
Law School, said that second-look statutes—like 
parole or commutations—are not a constitu­
tional right in the same way that the right to a 
jury trial is. “It’s purely discretionary,” Gohara 
said. “But it’s so critical as a safety valve.”

When a judge hands down a sentence, 
Gohara said, they cannot know whether a sen­
tencing standard will hold up over time. In 2012, 
for instance, the Supreme Court ruled in Miller v. 
Alabama that life without the possibility of parole 
for juveniles was unconstitutional for non-ho­
micide crimes and could not be mandatory for 
homicide crimes. Additionally, Connecticut 
abolished the death penalty for future crimes in 
2012 but continued to have eleven men on death 
row until 2015, when the Connecticut Supreme 
Court ruled it unconstitutional. In other words, 
judges rely on second-look provisions to know 
that a sentence can be changed if circumstances 
beyond the crime itself change. 

Over time, sentencing standards for the same 
types of crimes have gotten shorter. Given that 
a significant percentage of the prison population 
in Connecticut was sentenced decades ago, this 
means if they were to commit the same crimes 
today, they might receive a much shorter sentence. 
There are about half as many people incarcerated 
in Connecticut today as there were  fifteen years 
ago, with a little more than ten thousand today 
compared to about twenty thousand in 2008. 

In other states, the power to commute a 
sentence typically resides with the governor of a 
state. But in Connecticut, that power is instead 
held by the Board of Pardons and Paroles, whose 
members are appointed by the governor and 
have experience in social work, law enforcement, 
criminal justice, or substance abuse treatment 
and prevention. When deciding whether to com­
mute a sentence, the Board previously considered 
factors including the seriousness and recency of 
a conviction, the incarcerated individual’s con­
duct while serving their sentence, the impact on 
victims and the community, the extent of the 
individual’s rehabilitation, whether the length 
or form of the individual’s sentence is consistent 
with contemporary sentencing standards, and the 
extent to which continued service of the individ­
ual’s sentence is in the interest of justice.

In order to apply for a commutation, incar­
cerated individuals must have served at least ten 
years of their sentence. And, Atkinson’s attorney 
Alexander Taubes LAW ’15 said, if you get denied, 
you have to wait another five years before applying. 


---

**Page number(s): 23**

23
September 2023
Incarcerated individuals thus have to decide which 
types of sentence modifications to apply for and 
in what order, in case having been denied for one 
hearing might prejudice them in the other.

In the early nineteen-nineties, Connecticut 
legislators removed the possibility of parole and 
good time credits for homicide offenses, which 
includes felony murder. That means the only 
option available to a majority of the people serv­
ing lengthy sentences—which tend to be for vio­
lent crimes—is a sentence commutation. These 
commutations are, in criminal justice professor at 
the University of New Haven and former state 
legislator Michael Lawlor’s words, the “extraor­
dinary” option.

Freedom for Whom?

T
aubes represented forty-three of the 
106 sentences that were commuted between 
December 2021 and April 2023. In total, his cli­
ents had 751 years taken off their sentences, with 
an average of 17.5 years. 

These victories were largely unprecedented. 
Previously, from 2016 to 2021—including a hiatus 
in 2019 and 2020 to reevaluate the commutation 
process—the state had averaged only one com­
mutation a year. Many advocates both for and 
against the state’s commutations policy attribute 
the jump to a natural increase in applications fol­
lowing the pause, but this rise in commutations 
raised alarm bells for some. 

The push against commutations for vio­
lent crimes picked up at the start of 2023, with 
some victim advocates and several Republican 
legislators advocating for limiting commuta­
tions to non-violent crimes. In March, Governor 
Ned Lamont replaced the chair of the Board—
who some legislators felt was too liberal when 
commuting sentences—with Jennifer Medina 
Zaccagnini, a former social worker who served 
on the board since 2008. Lamont also suspended 
commutations entirely while the Board reviewed 
its policies, following pressure from Republicans 
and some victims’ families.

Part of the outrage was because forty-four 
of the seventy-one sentences commuted in 2022 
were for murder. For people like Atkinson—
those serving lengthy sentences without the 
possibility of parole—a sentence commutation 
can seem like the only shot at freedom. And as 
Lawlor suggested, the minimum of ten years 
served for eligibility explains why so many of the 
commuted sentences are for violent crimes: the 
people applying for a commutation have to be 
serving a long enough sentence to begin with.

“How are you supposed to have a second 
chance on anything at life if people want you 
to get out of jail when you’re 80, 90 years old?” 
Atkinson said. “They’re just clearing the path for 
your funeral.”

The uptick in commutations sparked con­
cern from some victims’ families, who worried 
their own perpetrators would be released from 
prison. The Board of Pardons and Paroles notifies 
the family of homicide victims of the application, 
even if the hearing ends up being denied. The 
board also takes into consideration statements 
from the victim’s family and prosecutors.

Plea bargains—which often include waiving 
the right to appeal—further complicate the ave­
nues through which incarcerated individuals can 
have another chance at freedom. Some victims’ 
families feel that commutations undermine the 
strength of these plea bargain stipulations, acting 
as a loophole for freedom. 

“It can almost be insulting to them because 
it’s like a contract,” said Jessica Pizzano from 
Survivors of Homicide. “‘[The accused individ­
ual] willingly accepted their sentence, and then 
to turn around how many years later and change 
that is extremely difficult for our families.”

Survivors of Homicide 
is a Connecticut-based, non-
profit organization that pro­
vides support and advocacy 
to anyone connected with 
a homicide victim. Pizzano 
stressed that the organiza­
tion is apolitical with the 
sole goal of providing sup­
port to its members. Pizzano 
also emphasized that most 
of the families the organi­
zation works with do not 
have a problem with com­
mutation hearings as a whole, 
but do believe that violent 
crimes like murder, sexual 
assault, and felony murder 
should be excluded from 
commutations.

Today, murder charges often come with 
shorter sentences, or the charge itself may be low­
ered to manslaughter or felony murder, Pizzano 
said. “That’s very hard for our families right now 
to be told that due to the current trends, this is 
the sentence that we can give,” Pizzano said. 
“Fifteen years for killing someone, that doesn’t sit 
well with our families.”

Over the last few months, the Board met 
with various stakeholders on both sides in order 
to develop a new commutation policy. On August 
30, the Board heard three cases in its first com­
mutations hearings since the pause. All were for 
murder convictions from the mid-nineties. And 
one, Miguel Sanchez, was granted a commutation. 
Sanchez had been incarcerated since 1997 and the 
Board reduced his sentence by fifteen years, bring­
ing his new effective sentence to forty-five years. 

Attorney David Bothwell, the legisla­
tive and administrative advisor to the Board 
of Pardons and Paroles, said the Board is now 
looking for individuals to show “extraordinary 
and compelling” circumstances towards reha­
bilitation, beyond participating in programs the 
Department of Correction offers. This is the main 
change to the policy. Victim input, the nature of 
the crime, and the seriousness of the individual’s 
involvement will also continue to be taken into 
consideration.

The new policy is vague to a fault, Taubes said.
More critically, it raises the issue of what 
rehabilitation means in a prison setting. How 
does someone who maintains their innocence 
demonstrate accountability for a crime they may 
not have committed? And can a prison environ­
ment really allow for “extraordinary and compel­
ling” forms of rehabilitation?



**Page number(s): 24**

24
A Deeper History

A
tkinson grew up in the Hill, a neighbor­
hood composed mainly of Black and Hispanic 
residents just south of downtown New Haven. 
When he was 3 years old, his mother picked him 
up and walked to her sister’s two streets down. She 
put him down on the porch steps, rang the door­
bell, and walked away. Atkinson stayed with his 
aunt for a day before she called the Department 
of Children and Families. For the next twelve 
years, he bounced around 
foster homes and group 
homes. His mother never 
knew that he lived just a 
few streets down for most 
of that time. He walked 
past her once, when he was 
14, at the King’s Department 
Store. She didn’t recognize 
him. It felt like a gut punch.

A year later, Atkinson 
ran away from a group home 
in Massachusetts. When he 
arrived at his mother’s home, 
she pulled him in. They 
sat for hours, running over 
everything that had hap­
pened. “Why did you give 
me up?” he asked her. She 
told him that she hadn’t been 
ready to be a mother. 

“How am I supposed to return? To love 
you?” Atkinson paused—it isn’t an easy subject. 
His instinct was to protect himself, to resist the 
mother who had once abandoned him. I asked 
him how he was able to forgive her.

All families are complicated, he said. But 
when you make it back home, when you walk 
through the door, you feel like you’re 2 years 
old again, running into your parents’ arms. “I 
always wanted to be loved by my family; I 
didn’t want to leave this earth not feeling 
loved,” Atkinson said.

Over time, Atkinson felt like he could go to 
his mother for anything. She was a stern woman, 
someone you wanted as a friend but not as an 
enemy. He picked some of that up from her, he 
said, but he was also committed to softening his 
anger so he could make her proud.

When Atkinson was 17, he met Michelle, 
who was a few years older than him. She came 
up to his bedroom window to get his attention 
on behalf of her friend. Right away, he found her 
“intoxicating.” A few days later, his mother called 
out to him from the front door. There was a girl 
at the door for him: Michelle. “She was the love 
of my life,” he said. “And I don’t throw that word 
love around.”

At 18, Atkinson had his first son, Bobby. 
Michelle told Atkinson he had to get serious—he 
couldn’t keep getting in trouble for petty crimes.

But Atkinson, at the time in his late teens, 
frequently found himself face-to-face with cops. 
The Hill has historically had the highest num­
ber of people in New Haven living below the 
federal poverty line. Atkinson recalls the police 
making frequent rounds in the area. In the late 
nineteen-eighties, this was far from unusual: 
intentional policies pushed from 1970 onward 
had brought about the era of mass incarceration 
in the U.S., as legislators pushed for stricter sen­
tencing laws, tough-on-crime policing—which 
targeted primarily Black and Brown neighbor­
hoods—and growing prison populations. From 
1970 to 1985, the national prison population rose 
from 196,429 to 502,507, according to data from 
the Bureau of Justice Statistics’s Prisoners series.

Connecticut was no exception to this 
national trend. In 1968, Connecticut established 
the Department of Correction—the first cen­
tral authority in the nation to oversee all youth 
and adult correctional institutions and parole 
functions in the state. Connecticut’s prison pop­
ulation grew rapidly, in part due to legislating 
definite sentences and eliminating parole for 
crimes committed after July 1981. Between 1980 
and 1990, the incarcerated population doubled, 
the number of prison staff tripled, and the DOC 
budget quadrupled.

Those effects are still felt today. An October 
2022 report by the Prison Policy Initiative on redis­
tricting data in Connecticut found that six cities—
Hartford, Waterbury, New Britain, Bridgeport, 
New London, and New Haven—were home to 
over half of the state’s incarcerated population, 
despite making up only 17 percent of Connecticut’s 
total population. High incarceration rates dispro­
portionately affect Connecticut’s communities of 
color: in April 2020, the DOC reported that 44 
percent of the prison population was Black, while 
only 13 percent of Connecticut residents are Black.

Atkinson served his first prison sentence at 
age 19, a fifteen-month sentence for drug-related 
charges. After being released, in November 1991, 
Atkinson was ready to turn his life around. He 



**Title: Lost Time**
**Author: Miranda Jeyaretnam**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
September 2023
wanted to commit himself to 
looking after his four kids, find­
ing a consistent job, and mak­
ing his mother proud.
But on February 29, 1992, 
the police were at Atkinson’s 
door again. The body of a young 
man named Edward Moore 
had been found in the Roberto 
Clemente field on February 
27, the two detectives standing 
before Atkinson—New Haven 
Police Department officers Joe 
Greene and James Ponteau—
thought he had something to 
do with it.

According to the affidavit 
for Atkinson’s arrest, a friend of 
Moore told police that a man approached them 
and then walked quickly ahead of them. Three 
other men, all in masks, ran up and robbed Moore 
and his friend at gunpoint. While Moore’s friend 
was on the ground, he heard two gunshots. He 
got up and ran, and heard another gunshot go 
off in his direction. Police later received a tip that 
Atkinson was involved, although the affidavit 
does not mention from whom that information 
came or how the informant knew it. 

Police interrogated Atkinson, who said he 
had been at the field with the other men, but left 
when they suggested robbing Moore. Atkinson 
told police he learned of Moore’s death on the 
TV at home. An eyewitness later identified two of 
the subjects, one of whom she said was unmasked; 
neither of whom was Atkinson. Atkinson claims 
the police fed him information about the crime 
during the interrogation. The affidavit notes that 
they read Atkinson his constitutional rights mid­
way during the police interview. But Atkinson 
believes the fact that he had a criminal record and 
that the police knew who he was mattered.

Atkinson was arrested alongside two co-de­
fendants for Moore’s robbery and death. Police 
could not establish who shot Moore, so Atkinson 
was charged with felony murder, robbery in the 
first degree, conspiracy to commit robbery, and 
attempted assault. The felony murder rule allows 
anyone accused of committing a dangerous fel­
ony to be charged with first-degree murder for 
a death that occurs during the felony, even if the 
defendant was not the killer.

But Atkinson maintains that he was not 
there for the crime at all. According to report­
ing by Will Sutherland, Ryan Myers, one 
of Atkinson’s co-defendants, also maintains 
his innocence but made the choice to take an 
Alford plea—a rare type of guilty plea wherein 
the defendant does not admit to committing 
the crime—for a shorter sentence. Detective 
Greene had been implicated in cases of wrong­
ful arrest and improper investigation in the past. 
This includes a federal civil rights case against 
him and another detective, Michael Sweeney, in 
August 1991 for false arrest and malicious prose­
cution. Eric Ham, who had brought the case, was 
awarded nearly one million dollars.

Between December 2021 and April 2023, the 
commutations policy was more generous, Taubes 
said, including a more liberal view of accountabil­
ity. Taubes represented four clients during that 
period who applied for a sentence commutation 
while they had habeas corpus actions in court—
in other words, they continued to maintain their 
innocence. All four commutations were granted.

Although Atkinson did not have a habeas 
petition at the same time as his commutation 
hearing, his application package includes sev­
eral letters from family and friends that empha­
sized their belief in his innocence. On August 
30, at the first commutation hearings since the 
pause, another of Taubes’ clients, Corey Turner, 
had his application denied in part because he 
had a habeas corpus action and was still main­
taining his innocence. Turner’s case appears 
to break a pattern in how accountability and 
rehabilitation are considered 
by the Board, although it is 
difficult to say for certain 
what that means for poten­
tial wrongful convictions.

“So much of the talk about 
rehabilitation 
and 
change 
and transformation comes 
around the notion of the per­
son accepting responsibility 
for the crime, and how can 
you accept responsibility for 
the crime if you maintain 
your innocence?” Taubes told 
me. “But that question goes 
both ways. How do you expect 
someone to take responsibility 
for something they didn’t do?”

The new commutations 
policy means that many 
more people may have to face 
this dilemma. According to 
Taubes, the traditional view in sentence reduc­
tions is that maintaining your innocence can be 
held against you. Incarcerated people who say 
they have been wrongfully convicted must make 
a difficult choice: maintain their innocence and 
potentially remain behind bars, or accept respon­
sibility for something they didn’t do in order to 
earn their freedom.


Seeking Rehabilitation
At the beginning of Atkinson’s sentence, 
he struggled. 
“I was younger back then,” he wrote in his 
commutation application, “and very immature, 
and I did very stupid things.” 

Lost Time
“I always wanted 
to be loved by my 
family; I didn’t want 
to leave this earth 
not feeling loved,” 
Atkinson said.

Incarcerated people 
who say they have been 
wrongfully convicted 
must make a difficult 
choice: maintain their 
innocence and poten­
tially remain behind 
bars, or accept respon­
sibility for something 
they didn’t do in order 
to earn their freedom.


For Atkinson, rehabilitation meant accept­
ing that the life he’d been living before his arrest 
needed to change. Though he maintains that he 
was not involved in the murder, he asserts that he 
knew he had to do more in order to be a father 
to his kids. 

Over the thirty-one years he spent behind 
bars, he received his G.E.D., earned a culinary 
arts degree, and worked as a baker in the kitchen 
at Garner Correctional Institution for eighteen 
years. He remained disciplinary-free since 2004.

Many of those applying for commutation 
have similarly spent decades rehabilitating them­
selves and feel transformed from the person they 
were when they committed their crime. Fifteen 
years ago, according to Lawlor, people under the 
age of 30 made up the largest cohort of the prison 
population, while those over 40 were the smallest. 
Today, that has flipped: incarcerated people under 
the age of 30 form the smallest cohort, followed by 
those between the age of 30 and 40, and the largest 
cohort is made up of people over 40 years old—in 
spite of the overall shrinking prison population.

And that group over 40, Lawlor said, is 
the least likely to re-offend. The average age at 
offense of people whose sentences were com­
muted from 2021 to 2023 was 22.8; the average 
age at their commutation hearing was 47.

“Do you really want to have these people sit­
ting in prison until they’re dying at the age of 80 
or 90?” Lawlor asked.

“There’s also the fact that people change,” 
Gohara said. “Those people, I think regardless of 
their crimes, deserve at least a consideration, just 
a consideration—and again, not all of them are 
going to be deserving.”

Some advocates, like 74-year-old Barbara 
Fair, feel that a commutations policy based 
mainly on merit ignores the fact that prison isn’t 
a rehabilitative solution in the first place. 
Fair was a teenager when her brother went to 
prison. It was the first time anyone in her family 
went to prison and the first time she started to 
think about incarceration. She became part of a 
group called Citizens for Humanizing Criminal 
Justice. One of their first big successes, she recalled, 
was getting trailers placed on the grounds of the 
Osborn Correctional Institution—at the time 
known as Somers—so that incarcerated people 
could sign up for their families to visit and stay 
in the trailers on weekends. In the over fifty years 
that Fair has been working in advocacy, she has 
witnessed the prison system turn into an industry.

“We are getting less and less human in the 
way we treat other human beings,” Fair said. 
“How much rehabilitation do you get when 
you’re caged like an animal? So to have that as 
a standard to even be considered…it’s just really 
disingenuous.”

As Fair emphasizes, rehabilitation in a prison 
setting can also mean allowing yourself to be 
demeaned and dehumanized, because standing 
up for yourself could lead to getting written up. 
Atkinson recalls kind officers side-by-side with 
ones who doled out punishment to assert their 
power. Seg—short for the segregated hous­
ing unit, where an incarcerated person would 
be detained with restricted contact with other 
inmates—was one of the ways officers would dis­
cipline prisoners or threaten them to stay in line. 
Atkinson told me he was thrown into seg, once, 
for making a joke.

Atkinson told me how officers, including 
a female officer, came into Atkinson’s cell and 
ordered him to get on his knees before cutting 
his clothes off of him. He felt humiliated and 
exposed but had to bite his tongue. Atkinson was 
detained in seg for a day, but incarcerated people 
in Connecticut have testified about much length­
ier stays in solitary confinement—so much so 
that in May 2022, Connecticut limited isolated 
confinement to no more than fifteen consecutive 
days or thirty total days within a sixty-day period.

Atkinson was determined to become the son 
that would make his mother proud. But while 
he was incarcerated, he received a letter from 
Michelle that his mother had died. She’d found 
out at the funeral for Atkinson’s brother, who 
died of liver cancer. Atkinson clutched the let­
ter. For the second time, he felt convinced that he 
didn’t want to live any longer. 

He remembers fishing out a photo album he 
kept with him and flipping it open. A full-fig­
ured woman in her forties stared back at him. 
He couldn’t understand why he had to find out 
through a letter too long after her death, and he 
still does not know the exact day his mother or 
brother died. He dedicated the thirty-one years 
he was incarcerated to his family and trying to 
better himself for them, but now he describes 
the pain of never getting to say goodbye. The 
urns holding their ashes are at his sister-in-law’s 
house, he said, and he hasn’t been able to bring 
himself there yet to say his final goodbyes.


Growing Pains
Atkinson attended his commutation 
hearing virtually while held at Garner 
Correctional Institution. On the big TV screen 
in front of him, he could see the board members’ 
faces. They seemed sullen. They asked him what 
he would do if they gave him a shot at being in 
the free world. Atkinson explained he wanted 
to become a nursing assistant, to commemorate 
his mother who had been a nurse for fifty years. 
He told them how he’d kept the same job in the 
prison for close to twenty years, keeping his head 
down and studying.

He looked at them, knowing they had his life 
in their hands. They told him to leave the room 
while they deliberated and he thought, Oh man, 
I’m not going to get a shot. But when he came 
back in, the mood had lightened and he learned 
he would be going home. He was released on 
May 4, 2023.

“I’m a grown man, I’m 52 years old, I was cry­
ing inside,” Atkinson said. “I ain’t going to lie, [I 
thought] I’m going to die in prison.”

Before his arrest, Atkinson listened to Bon 
Jovi, Anita Baker, and Patti LaBelle. He espe­
cially loved LaBelle’s “If You Asked Me To,” 
which was dedicated to her sister who died of 
lung cancer. LaBelle seemed to have a song for 
anything. Anytime you wanted to explain your 
love to a person, Atkinson said, you would play 
“If Only You Knew,” which expressed a feeling of 
unrequited love. New Haven has changed a lot 
since Atkinson was last free, but he still listens to 
Patti LaBelle.

Since his release, Atkinson moved into a half­
way house. He had to get a phone, figure out job 
references, and learn a new way to dress “without 
wearing skinny jeans,” he chuckled. His kids are 
now all in their thirties. “It’s hard to reintegrate, 
even to get to know your family,” Atkinson said. 
Twice in the four months I’ve known Atkinson, 
his phone line has been cut because he couldn’t 
pay the bill on time.

Prison often ages people, he said. But the 
last time Atkinson navigated the world outside, 
he was a kid. Sentenced to what amounted to 
life, he’d missed some of the hallmarks of grow­
ing old—working his first real job, getting mar­
ried, sending his kids to school, attending their 
weddings, saying goodbye to his mother retiring. 
There were times, like when he saw his kids for 
the first time again, that the past coiled up inside 
him, pulling him backwards in time till he felt 
like he was a 2-year-old child running into his 
mother’s arms. 

When Atkinson pictures the rest of his life, 
so much of it is making up for lost time. He 
wants to walk by the sea with a girlfriend, or 
to have his own kitchen so he can bake more 
often. He just started his nursing assistant classes. 
Anything that brings him a little closer to the life 
he might have led. ∎

Miranda Jeyaretnam is a senior 
in Pierson College.

Atkinson, left, Taubes, right.



**Title: The Year of Downstream Swimming**
**Author: Netanel Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
This one drive, 
my father put the radio on, 
to replace the other sounds, 
and there was news from Norway, 
speaking of the fish - 
there would be less that year. 
Too bad, I thought. 
Too bad it’s the salmon 
dying off this year, 
my father’s favorite. 
Too bad they swam 
downstream instead of up. 
And too bad, my father thought. 
Too bad my favorite fish is 
flopping up dead on the banks 
like my real estate. 
I don’t know what my mother thought. 
My brother, 
who never ate a fish in his life 
and hated silence, asked: 
Norway? 
They bring the fish from Norway? 
And nobody said a word to him. 
Not even the radio 
which crackled like a laugh 
and died.


**Title: Meditation on Monday Honey**
**Author: Isabel Menon**

After Craig Arnold’s “Meditation on a Grapefruit”
To wake bare feet 
into cool tile    glassied by
the pall of night
the promise of morning
          To yawn toes apart
at the chill     stamping
sole into ceramic
             To corpse to the kitchen 
to show you love    despite 
the call of night 
     To rustle the silverware 
into windchime laughter          to grab 
the smallest spoon     still 
stained with 
yesterday & the hardness
of its leftbehind water
 To sticky thumbs 
on smooth glass     the lid gasping 
itself open     the sweet 
sailing into stale air  
To lower slow as syrup     to dip 
to click against jarbottom     to lift  
& to unspool gloss ribbons 
like confessions 
To twirl spidersilk laces 
into one another     spiraling metal
so sugar eats sugar 
like blown glass 
& only then to contour lips 
to the curve 
             to taste 
                the tacky  
                       the treacle  
                           and trickle 
into the promised morning 
a softening 	
the sink 
each day slipping 
each day sticking


**Title: The Debate for Dignity**
**Author: Anouk Yeh**
**Page number(s): 30**

As the dispute over medical aid in dying persists, 
local advocates voice differing ideas on how to 
protect those in pain. 
layout design by Cate Roser



**Title: The Debate for Dignity**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
September 2023
T
he first thing I notice is the little 
girl’s grin. Stretched impossibly wide, it 
infects her face with joy. In the photograph, 
she’s leaning into the arms of a woman—her 
mother—who wears a similar smile, and her head 
is cocked back as if poised to launch into a fit of 
giggles. The two have the same haircut, a long bob 
with bangs. They lean into each other with ease. 
The photo, taken in 1992, still radiates a soft 
warmth. The two of them look so happy.

Today, almost thirty years later, Kira Philips—
once the little girl from the photo—sits across 
from me. It’s my first time meeting her, and I’m a 
little nervous. Sometime in the last three decades, 
she’s traded her bob for long, pin straight hair. Her 
cheekbones have become more prominent, but she 
still has the same warm brown eyes. 
I ask her how she’s been, and she briefly grins, 
perhaps out of habit. But the smile hangs stagnant 
on her lips and doesn’t swell with the same verve 
as in the picture. She lets out a shuddery breath. 
“You can lead the questions, and I’ll try to keep 
it together,” she says. “It’s been an emotional cou­
ple of days.”

This past weekend was the two-year anniver­
sary of her mom’s passing.

I connected with Kira after finding her name 
in the Connecticut State Assembly’s legislation 
testimonial archives. Last February, she went 
to Hartford  to testify in favor of  SB 1076: An 
Act Concerning Aid in Dying for Terminally 
Ill Patients. The bill would allow terminally ill 
patients in the state of Connecticut the option 
to die by self-administering lethal medication, 
a procedure dubbed “medical aid in dying” by 
supporters and “assisted suicide” by opponents. 
Bills to legalize this procedure have been annually 
proposed—and shot down—in the Connecticut 
General Assembly for almost a decade. 

A look into the text of SB 1076’s reveals 
pages of medical definitions and procedures. 
Co-sponsored by sixteen senators across the polit­
ical spectrum, the bill stipulates the requirements 
for aid in dying, including that the patient must be 
“of sound mind,” confirmed by an attending physi­
cian; terminally ill, defined as having a prognosis 
of six months or less to live; and able to self-ad­
minister the medication. As I read over these 
documents, I wondered: What has driven this bill 
and the daunting procedure it represents back into the 
General Assembly year after year? 

In September 2018, Kira’s mother Claire 
was diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a rare 
form of blood cancer. Kira tells me that her body 
responded “really, really poorly” to chemotherapy 
and that, by October, Claire was in at-home hos­
pice, unable to get out of bed. However, after stay­
ing in hospice for three months, things seemed to 
take a turn for the better. 

By around February, she had begun oral, 
non-invasive treatment and was responding well. 
She was in remission, her cancer cell count was 
decreasing, and she was able to walk and drive 
on her own, as well as pick up old hobbies, like 
painting and baking. However, Kira tells me that 
it was also during this time period—during the 
COVID-19 lockdown—that Claire bought a gun. 
Kira describes that summer to me as a “heated” 
time in her neighborhood. With the Black Lives 
Matter movement in full swing and anti-vaxxer 


--- Page 32 ---

**Title: The Debate for Dignity**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 34 ---

34
TheNewJournal
The Debate for Dignity
meet, I’m intimidated by her incisive, no-frills 
demeanor—she’s 
terrifyingly 
articulate 
and 
emails without exclamation points. Throughout 
our meeting, though, I find myself warming up to 
her vulnerability and occasional jokes.
Joan is one of the founding members of 
Progressives Against Medical Assisted Suicide 
(PAMAS), a Connecticut-based grassroots orga­
nization fighting SB 1076 and variations of the bill 
that have come before it. PAMAS opposes aid in 
dying on the basis that its legalization would inev­
itably lead to its weaponization against economi­
cally, socially, and racially marginalized individuals. 
It, along with other organizations, has been 
fighting to “provide a path for leftists and pro­
gressives who have social justice concerns” about 
aid in dying and to disrupt the notion that the 
opposition is exclusively religious and conserva­
tive. According to Joan, national conversations 
surrounding aid in dying legalization have been 
curated by large organizations like Compassion 
& Choices as a fight for bodily autonomy against 
religious conservatism—“The main funder of 
the opposition is the leadership of the Catholic 
Church,” Tim emphasized in our conversation—
leaving out progressive oppositional concerns. 
“The narrative that suggests that it’s only reli­
gious conservatives or right-wing Republicans 
who are against [aid in dying] really serves 
Compassion & Choices and other groups who are 
pushing this. They love it,” Joan says. 
Joan started organizing after witnessing the 
way her mother, “an elderly dementia patient who 
was on Medicare and Medicaid,” was treated by 
the “medical industrial complex,” the network of 
corporate powers—hospitals, hospice care pro­
grams, drug companies, pharmacies, insurance 
companies, etc.—that form the health industry.
In September of 2011,  Joan’s mother was 
admitted to the Yale New Haven Hospital after 
she began regularly aspirating and had trouble 
swallowing. Up until January of 2012, Joan stayed 
in the hospital with her mom every night and was 
“constantly assaulted by doctors saying, you need to 
let her go, you should send her off to hospice.” At 
the same time, however, Joan’s mother was telling 
her that she “wasn’t ready to die.”
Eventually, her mother’s private doctor told 
Joan that her mother needed a tracheostomy for 
her breathing. However, when Joan made the 
request,  someone—“I think it was a nurse [but] 
I’m not sure. I never learned the identity of the 
person”—summoned an ethics committee meet­
ing, where doctors discussed overriding Joan’s 
decision to continue her mother’s treatment. Joan 
attributes the hospital’s reluctance to continue 
treating her mother to financial disincentives, 
among other reasons.
“Medicare and Medicaid do not pay the hos­
pital what they want for these long hospitaliza­
tions,” Joan tells me. 
Historically, both Medicare and Medicaid 
have underpaid hospitals in reimbursement 
funds—only “56 percent of the amount that 
private insurers pay,” according to a Heritage 
Foundation report. According to another report 


--- Page 35 ---

35
September 2023
published by the Commonwealth Fund, a pri­
vate foundation that supports research in health­
care issues, the two health insurance programs 
underpaid hospitals by $24.8 billion in 2020 and, 
according to the American Hospital Association, 
by $76.8 billion in 2017. 
Seeing how willing the “medical industrial 
complex” was to end her mother’s access to cura­
tive care spurred Joan to think about the ways that 
legalizing aid in dying would impact vulnerable 
populations such as those who are low-income, 
disabled, terminally-ill, and individuals of color. 
“We live in a system where severely disabled 
people, elderly, poor, and non-white people are 
devalued,” Joan says. “There’s already a lot of 
incentive for insurance companies to go for the 
cheapest option of treatment.”
Joan posits that if aid in dying were to be 
legalized, hospitals would press patients away 
from curative care and into the option of aid in 
dying to cut costs, especially in the case of low-in­
come individuals on Medicaid or Medicare. 
The 1977 Washington v. Glucksberg Supreme 
Court decision also noted this potential financial 
incentive, stating “if physician-assisted suicide 
were permitted, many might resort to it to spare 
their families the substantial financial burden of 
end-of-life health care costs.”
Joan said that the corporate profit incentive, 
along with more circumstantial and covert pres­
sures—familial finances, low-quality palliative care, 
and ableism—all lead to a reality where marginal­
ized groups can be coerced into aid in dying.  She 
also believes that the failure of general hospice 
and of palliative care is also contributing to the 
demand for assisted suicide. 
“I heard one person speak about [supporting 
assisted suicide] and she was talking about how 
hospice had failed them and it’s clicking for me…
the failure of hospice care is propelling her to sup­
port medical assisted suicide,” she said. 
In November 2022, The New Yorker pub­
lished an investigative piece capturing how hos­
pice care was turning into a “for-profit hustle.” 
According to Connecticut Hospice, a non-profit 
hospice in the state and “America’s first hospice,” 
to qualify for hospice care, patients must be 
certified by two physicians, who can verify that 
they are terminally ill with a prognosis of six 
months or less to live and formally give up cura­
tive care. This is the standard for the majority of 
hospices around the nation. However, The New 
Yorker found that a growing number of for-profit 
hospice programs would “dupe people into the 
program by claiming that it’s free home health 
care,” illegally recruiting patients who aren’t 
actually terminally ill and keeping them from 
accessing curative care. Patients who outlived 
the projected hospice average of six months for 
profit were then “dumped” by companies. These 
exploitative practices have made hospices espe­
cially predatory toward low-income individuals. 
Disability Rights Opposition
A
ccording to Cathy Ludlum, a disability 
rights activist, there is a long history of the 
medical industrial complex turning to assisted 
suicide to avoid accountability for bettering pal­
liative care for terminally ill and disabled individ­
uals. Cathy, a longtime Manchester, CT resident, 
founded Second Thoughts Connecticut, a disabil­
ity rights organization fighting against the state 
legalization of aid in dying.


--- Page 36 ---

36
After a few back and forth emails, the two 
of us finally hop on a video call together. Cathy 
uses a wheelchair and joins our conversation clad 
in thin-rimmed glasses and a toothy grin. In the 
middle of exchanging introductions, Cathy turns 
from the Zoom camera and directs her voice 
towards her computer.
“Computer, wake up. Mouse click. Mouse 
5…674.” 
Refined by years of practice, Cathy navigates 
her computer exclusively using voice commands. 
When I ask Cathy how she started organizing 
against medical aid in dying, she jumps in and 
asks me to use the term “assisted suicide” instead. 
“Medical aid in dying as a term, really, is 
misleading,” Cathy says. “If someone is assisting 
someone in their transition [to death], that would 
be hospice—assisting the person to be comfort­
able in their health, alleviating anxiety, existential 
concerns, and clinical concerns.”
Cathy tells me that there’s significant histori­
cal precedent for medical abuse of assisted suicide. 
She points to the case of Larry McAfee as an 
example. In 1989, Larry McAfee, who was para­
plegic and frustrated with the limitations of his 
life, won court permission to have his ventilator 
disconnected. Despite his initial decision, McAfee 
changed his mind after moving to a nursing home 
that contained specific accommodations for his 
disability, such as a special computer that let him 
contact the outside world. McAfee ended up living 
for six more years, until he passed from pneumonia.
According to Cathy, McAfee’s case illumi­
nated a jarring conclusion: assisted suicide can 
often be a last resort that disabled individuals are 
cornered into because society lacks the proper 
accommodations—whether that’s access to tech­
nology, medicine, or caretakers—to guarantee 
them proper care and fulfilling lives. . 
I look at Cathy, who’s sitting in her wheel­
chair, and her implicit argument becomes clear: If 
assisted suicide is legalized, my life and right to live 
become at risk.
Compared to other state bills that have 
been passed, Connecticut’s proposed legislation, 
with its stringent residential requirement and 
older age limit—21, instead of 18 like many other 
states—seems to be on the tighter end of aid in 
dying legislation.
But when I ask Cathy and Joan whether the 
safeguards of SB 1076—including a physician 
“We live in a 
system where 
severely disabled 
people, elderly, 
poor, and non-
white people are 
devalued,” Joan 
says.
confirmation of terminal illness, a present witness 
who has no stake in the patient’s death, the patient 
needing to be sound of mind—would mitigate 
some of the aforementioned inequities, they pre­
sented a list of refutations. First, regulations can’t 
prevent covert pressure like familial pressure or a 
patient’s internal guilt for feeling like a burden. 
Second, even places like Oregon, which has legal­
ized aid in dying for twenty-five years, admit to 
not having enough resources to oversee individual 
cases of aid in dying to check for physician negli­
gence or coercion. Lastly, even if all the checks did 
initially work, Cathy argues through the cases of 
Oregon and Vermont, that pro-aid in dying lob­
byists will often use the “bait and switch” tactic 
to wear down legislative safeguards over time. For 
instance, aid in dying was originally legalized in 
Vermont in 2013 under a stipulation that it could 
only be used by residents. However, in May, after 
a lawsuit filed by a Connecticut woman seeking 
aid in dying found Vermont’s residency require­
ments unconstitutional, the Vermont governor 
removed residency requirements. Oregon, which 
had passed its Death With Dignity Act with a 
residency requirement in 1997, also repealed its 
own in 2022. 
In essence, according to Joan and Cathy, it 
doesn’t matter which guardrails were initially set 
with legalizing aid in dying, because there’s noth­
ing stopping them from being worn down.
Despite the aid in dying clash’s emotional 
charge, its intricacies, and its interside tensions, 
Joan says that she has still found moments of 
humanity in connecting with the other side. 
Once, after a bill hearing, Joan had the chance 
to talk to a woman testifying in support of aid 
in dying, who had lost her wife to a “very, very 
drawn-out death.” Moved by the woman’s story, 
Joan shared her mother’s story. 
“I said [to her] you know, we are not against 
you folks, and I really understand what it’s like to 
lose somebody you love, very, very painfully,” she 
said. “We have that same thing in common. I’ve 
been there. I know what it feels like.”
When Palliative Care Isn’t Enough
W
hen I meet Tyrone Biniarz, I’m greeted 
by a man in his late fifties, with a full white 
beard and deep-set voice. Tyrone—who tells me 
to call him Ty—is from Ellington, CT and carries 
himself with a frank yet warm air. Throughout the 
interview, he constantly reminds me: “I’m a very 
open person. I don’t mind you asking anything 
that maybe you don’t feel comfortable asking.”
In April 2016, Ty’s brother Clifford, at the time 
49 years old and living in Tucson, was diagnosed 
with chondrosarcoma, a type of bone cancer. After 
complications with an initial surgery, Clifford was 
hospitalized in Houston for nine months. He 
could no longer walk on his own and lost “bowel 
function and control of his bladder.” Unable to live 
alone, Clifford moved in with Tyrone and his fam­
ily in Connecticut in May 2017.
Before the cancer diagnosis, Clifford had been 
very active. The two brothers loved hiking the 
Grand Canyon “rim to rim in one hike” and going 
to the Indy 500 race together. However, by the 
time he moved in to Ty’s, Clifford couldn’t walk 
up a flight of stairs without assistance.
To get Clifford to his bed on the second floor 
of his home, Ty would secure a strap around his 
chest to “pull and support” his brother as he used 
a walker up the stairs. Despite receiving care from 
Ty and his family, Clifford’s mobility, agency, and 
life all changed irrevocably. 
Since Clifford wasn’t yet a Connecticut resi­
dent or on disability, there were a lot of services he 
didn’t qualify for yet. So Ty, who was at the time 
working a full-time job, became Clifford’s full-
time caretaker.
Ty learned how to take care of and clean 
Clifford the way a nurse would. He tended to 
his brother in the mornings, during his lunch 
break, when he’d drive home from work, and in 
the evenings. 
“I had two kids so it was [similar] to chang­
ing a baby’s diaper. But the circumstances are very 
different because it’s my own brother and he’s an 
adult, right,” Ty says. “So that was difficult.”
Though Ty was happy to help his brother out, 
the dynamic took “its toll financially”—and men­
tally. Ty went “heavily into debt” over Clifford’s 
medical bills. And in February 2021, Ty suffered a 
heart attack. 
“It’s not that I had a heart attack because of 
him,” Ty says. “But the stress and everything in the 
years leading up to that… I’m sure they were con­
tributing factors.”
During the time period leading up to 
Clifford’s death, Ty says that Clifford had been 
contemplating ways to commit suicide, because 
he didn’t want to “go the way [their mother] 
who had cancer did.” Ty knew that Clifford was 
communicating back and forth with someone 
who had access to Canadian medications. He’d 
contemplated hoarding all the painkillers that 
he was prescribed for an overdose, or overdosing 
through the use of fentanyl patches. Ty knew that 
his brother didn’t want to have to suffer for longer 
than necessary.
“[My brother] knew that he had a death sen­
tence looming over his head,”  Ty says. 
However, none of Clifford’s plans came to 
fruition. He ended up being hospitalized for a 
cellulitis infection, where the hospital staff sent 
home all of the extra medication he was stashing. 
Afterward, Clifford was transferred into a nursing 
home hospice, where he passed in June 2021. 
Like Kira, Ty emphasizes that his brother 
wouldn’t have had to suffer for so long—both 
physically and emotionally—if he had access to 
aid in dying. 
 When some­
one’s soulmate, 
parent, or sibling 
passes, where 
does that 
love go?



**Title: The Debate for Dignity**
**Author: Anouk Yeh**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
37
September 2023
The Debate for Dignity
However, Ty’s descriptions of the hardship 
that both he and Clifford faced brought me back 
to Joan’s argument about the failure of palliative 
care. If Connecticut state had immediately qual­
ified Clifford for in-state disability provisions—if 
Clifford had earlier access to a colostomy bag and 
an in-home palliative caretaker—would he still 
have considered aid in dying? 

Kira argues that while palliative care is 
important, in some cases, it’s not enough for ter­
minally ill patients. She points to the example of 
her friend Amanda, who she met at the End of 
Life Symposium. Amanda came to support aid 
in dying after the death of her husband, who had 
bladder cancer and whose bladder had ruptured. 
“[He] really, really suffered and no amount of 
pain medication or hospice assistance or palliative 
care could have alleviated his suffering,” Kira says. 
“That was just the manner of his cancer.”

Kira says that she doesn’t see why legalizing 
aid in dying and improving palliative and hospice 
care are mutually exclusive. 

“[The opposition says] we should really focus 
on not killing people, [on] advancing our hospice 
and palliative care systems—but can’t all of those 
things coexist?” 

I find myself returning to the photograph of 
Kira and Claire. Throughout our meeting, Kira 
described her mother to me as her best friend, her 
advocate, her soulmate. The fondness in her voice 
made me wonder: When someone’s soulmate, parent, 
or sibling passes, where does that love go?

I think back to something Kira told me when 
we first met: “I channeled my heartbreak into 
this work.”

Her story, along with Ty, Joan, and Cathy’s, 
help bring to life the intense emotions that have 
kept SB 1076 and its predecessors circulating in 
and out of the Connecticut General Assembly 
for almost a decade. As the next legislative year 
rolls around, all four of them have begun bracing 
themselves for the kaleidoscope of emotions the 
bill represents—fear, grief, and hope—and to con­
tinue the fight.

For Kira, it’s her mother. For Joan, it’s her 
mother and other marginalized individuals. For 
Ty, it’s his brother. For Cathy, it’s disabled indi­
viduals—including herself. ∎
Anouk Yeh is a sophomore in 
Pierson College.
Ty (left), and his brother, Clifford (right).


**Title: Should I be Blessed with a Son**
**Author: Ellie Atlee**

Inspired by “A Prayer for My Daughter” by W.B. Yeats
As I lie in these tousled sheets
staring at the beat in a belly
— my belly — the possibility of him creeps 
into my half-nap daydream.
Should I be blessed with a son,
Make his hands sweaty and warm
with a grace that might allow for music.
Give him pointy, smooth elbows that
can unfurl and reach the apples on our tree
while I wait, below, holding the basket.
Send him blonde, sprightly curls near the edges of his face
so I may tuck them back in a clip. 
For in May and June, when the light settles in, 
I would like to be sure of his portrait. 
That way we can sit on the bench 
and pick at blackberries together, 
without fear of misunderstanding. 
And when he grows larger than I,
he will still think me impressive. 
—Ellie Atlee
Photograph courtesy of Tyrone Biniarz


**Title: White Sugar, Devil’s Gold**
**Author: Lazo Gitchos**
**Page number(s): 38**

Photo Essay
Shot on 35mm film, 2021 
The caldera of the volcano Ijen is 
faded gray and completely silent. The sul­
fur gas keeps out all animal life—no birds, 
no insects, no rodents. The gas is yellow 
where it breathes from the ground, gray-
white as it rises into puffy clouds at the 
rim of the crater. Tourists watch the sun 
rise over the backs of men carrying the 
sulfur up from below.

When the men cough, their racking 
breaths are dampened by the thick air. They 
are Javanese men no older than fifty, and 
their backs are calloused from the bas­
ket-pole. The full baskets weigh as much as 
ninety kilograms, much more than the men 
carrying them. The trail is steep and rocky. 
From the rim of the crater, the men 
wheel carts of sulfur down the rutted trail, 
hundreds of kilograms at a time, to the 
processing plant at the base of the moun­
tain. At a weigh station near the volcano, 
processing facility PT. Candi Ngrimda 
pays the men by the weight of their harvest. 
Most make about three times the region’s 
average wage. They work from midnight 
until almost 2 p.m. 

In the cool night air, the sulfur con­
denses into liquid, then hardens solid. 
Pipes concentrate the gasses, speeding up 
the accumulation of hardened rocks. The 
fresh sulfur is bright yellow. The locals 
call it the devil’s gold, named for the price 
paid by the men who extract it. Sulfur is 
used for explosives, match heads, elec­
tronic components, and beauty products. 
But PT. Candi Ngrimba uses the sulfur 
here, mined from Ijen, to whiten the sugar 
grown in the region.
By Lazo Gitchos



**Title: Twin Cities**
**Author: Arden Yum**
**Page number(s): 42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Personal Essay
Twin Cities
A writer explores life from Manhattan to Oceanside.
New York, May–June 

Today I put on a rain jacket for 
the walk to my driving lesson. The 
drizzle is barely-there—tiny beads col­
lect on strands of my hair, then slide 
away. I drive poorly for an hour and, 
when I finish, it is almost noon. The 
rain has stopped. I can’t decide how I 
want to spend the rest of my day, and 
then I remember that I don’t have to. I 
get a vanilla ice cream cone from a truck 
parked on 125th and Amsterdam and tie 
my jacket around my waist, licking the 
rainbow-sprinkled sides to keep my fin­
gers clean. Heat and light buzz on my 
bare shoulders. 

A New York Summer is usually 
sweltering, but this one hasn’t been. I 
don’t need to change my clothes and 
shower in the middle of the day, red-
faced and drenched in sweat. I am not 
suffocated by thick air. I do miss the 
sticky-sweetness a little bit, the race to 
devour lemon-lime Icees before they 
melt into neon slush, the sky-high 
ponytails that keep the hair off of my 
neck, the hallucinogenic combination of 
heat and exhaustion. The season ripen­
ing with the smells of bodies, sunscreen, 
dogs, car exhaust, dirt, pollen, perfume, 
roasted nuts, burnt coffee, laundry, cig­
arette smoke. 

My driving teacher remarks that 
New Yorkers have forgotten how to drive. 
They’re more reckless. They run red lights, 
cut off other vehicles, honk with impa­
tience and contempt. They roll down 
their windows to start screaming matches 
in traffic. When I ask her if it is just the 
driving that got worse, she says no. It’s




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Arden Yum**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Midtown to make it on time to a dinner 
reservation. I love hearing their snippets 
of conversation. I love judging their out­
fits and haircuts and modes of walking. I 
love the old ladies selling beaded brace­
lets in Washington Square Park and the 
guys stationed next to them with their 
skateboards and overgrown hair. I love 
Koreatown at night, because the restau­rants are open twenty-four hours and 
the soup tastes better when the sky is 
pitch black and the air has cooled and 
no one is checking the time. 


Some of my friends who are not 
from New York are here for the summer, 
and they’ve come to two conclusions. 
One is that going for a walk feels like 
enough of an activity to deem an entire 
day productive. The other is that it feels 
quite small for a place with a popula­
tion of eight million. Yesterday, I ran 
into three people I know in one hour. It 
made no sense.


**Title: Oceanside, July–August**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

I 
passed my driver’s test five days 
before my flight. In real life, I am sur­
prised to learn that the cars drive very 
fast and ignore the stop signs. They don’t 
signal before they switch lanes; they 
expect others will make room. 


The first official “highway” I drive 
on is South Coast, through the main 
downtown strip. There is a theater on 
the left side called Star that looks like 
it has been extracted out of a nine­
teen-fifties Hollywood set to an unas­
suming beach locale on the coast of 
Southern California. A neon sign juts 
out from the building and projects the 
light of multicolored stars onto the road. 
My friend grew up performing in Star 
productions. One of his peers became 
a Disney celebrity and moved an hour 
and a half north to Los Angeles. He 
tells me how weird it is for a childhood 
friendship to become a parasocial one, 
where only one party knows what the 
other is up to. It’s so strange to see his 
face, he says, on the internet, or to hear 
the songs he inspired playing on the 
radio. He tries to avoid it. 


The city of Oceanside, population 
173,000, could have been written for 
a screenplay. It is a year-round sum­
mer vacation. The streets are named 
Surfrider, 
Sportfisher, 
Seagaze. 
At 
night, a line slinks around the block for 
a local ice cream shop that serves their 
scoops out of six windows. They have 
fifty flavors and no samples, so I blindly 
choose vanilla caramel brownie. It is 
surprisingly stretchy, rich and sweet and 
delightfully ordinary.


everything. “After Covid,” she sighs, “it’s 
like people have no heart.”


My mother has become frightened 
by the violence on the news and warns 
me against taking the train. I resist, cit­
ing my solo rides at 10 years old, to and 
from school. I have the cadence of the 
6 train memorized, the names of the 
stops and the minutes between each one. 
I love the choreography it requires, of 
overlapping arms, absence of eye contact, 
the collective squeeze to let one more 
person in. There have been several occa­
sions when a friend has stepped into the 
same car as me, and we are both startled 
and completely unsurprised that such a 
coincidence could happen.


On June 6, a pale yellow haze covers 
the sky, diffusing the setting sun on my 
evening walk around the reservoir. My 
friend texts me that it is coming from 
the wildfires in Canada. I tell him how 
beautiful it looks in person, forgetting the 
burning trees. The next day, I wear a mask 
for the first time in two years, and it is 
scratchy and unfamiliar. It is almost as if 
the pandemic was a dream—a tear in a 
film reel, taped up and smoothed out.        


What I miss most about New York 
when I am gone are the people who 
don’t look at me funny when I pull 
out my camera or wear my pajamas to 
the park or run sixty blocks through 


After I get home from work and 
cook dinner, I have thirty minutes of 
sunlight before it gets dark. I slip on 
my running shoes and jog to the water, 
where there are families and couples and 
teenage boys in snapbacks and tourists 
with fanny packs scattered along the 
pier. Spectators lean against the railing, 
studying the surfers mounting the baby 
waves, upright for seconds before they 
fall off their boards and sink beneath the 
surface. I think about how cold they are. 
If they know everyone is watching them.


At the start of the pier, there is a man 
selling churros from a cart with a vat of 
bubbling, golden oil. At the end, there 
are fishermen stationed in a semicircle 
with prawns and tiny sea creatures tied 
around their thin fishing rods. I shuf­
fle past them quickly. I’m not sure why 
their presence intimidates me. Perhaps 
it is because I feel like an intruder on 
their nightly ritual, or because I inter­
pret their silent focus as a threat. As the 
line separating the sky and the ocean 
fades into obscurity, I think about how 
all the Infinity Rooms I’ve stood inside 
at fancy museums pale in comparison to 
the real thing, the sparkles on the black­
ened sea, the eternity it suggests.


I walk home in the half light.


There is a hurricane warning on my 
second-to-last day in Oceanside. My 
mother calls and instructs me to buy 
toilet paper and nonperishables. The 
downpour is steady and pools into the 
crevices on the patio. I stay inside all day, 
watching the rain through the window, 
and I am miserable. In the morning, the 
city is damp, but the sun is out again 
and I realize how tan I’ve become from 
forgetting to put on sunscreen. How my 
heart rate has slowed with the assurance 
that every day will be the same. I will go 
to the water. I will not know anyone’s 
name. ∎


Arden Yum is a junior in 
Benjamin Franklin College.


**Title: Anti-Fragile**
**Author: Daniella Sanchez**
**Page number(s): 45**

The days when the flower pot shatters 
because a gust of wind blows too strongly, 
and I am left with dirt and ceramic 
at my feet, my orchids gone, 
I collect the shattered pot 
in the palm of my hand, 
avoiding the sharp edges. 
I think about the Frenchman 
serving tables, carrying dirty, 
porcelain, holding the remnants
of a meal in his arms. When they 
dropped
and everyone turned as if 
they never heard glass shatter
or that shattered glass meant 
the end of the world. 
Remember what he said.
As he bent over to pick up the big pieces, 
La vie est anti-fragile.
It brings itself back together, 
like skin, 
suturing all its wounds.  
Yet I still try to escape things I can’t see,
as if you can lose everything to air. 



**Title: Paris**
**Author: Isabella Panico**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Every day since I arrived in Paris, I have gone 
to the same bookstore,the one next to the Panthéon. 
I’m convinced it’s where I’m going to find god. 
The tables outside are a forgettable shade of beige. 
When I settle into them, the waitress says “Hello” 
before I can greet her with “Bonjour.” I counter her 
judgment by placing a book entitled La Plaisanterie 
on the table. I wonder if this feeling of humiliation 
is god. 

Every day I don’t spend crying in Paris is 
another day I’m convinced I’m missing the point. 
God, if you’re there, help me cry. Help me look at 
the royal purple doors of Place Sainte-Geneviève 
and etch them into my memory with tears. Defeated, 
I walk up to the cashier and ask to buy their last 
slice of cake. I spent the prior 30 seconds believing 
that the cake was as lonely and confused as me. But, 
perhaps the cake is just cake and the doors are just 
doors. She refused to let me pay. 

The silence of the bathroom doused me in 
forgiveness. There was no pressure to comprehend 
Paris’ consequential essence, nor pressure to feel my 
subsequent inconsequentiality. I ate the cake with 
my bare hands. Looking in the mirror, I started to cry. 
Not because god finally bestowed unto me the secret 
of  living with purpose, but because I was eating cake 
in the bathroom. What kind of person eats cake in the 
bathroom? 

A knock on the door. I remember how inconve­
nient it is to have revelations when the practicalities 
of life still exist. 

Walking away, I remembered the half-eaten cake 
that remained on the counter. I never went back to the 
bookstore again.
—Isabella Panico
Aside
Cake


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 47**

The New Journal was founded in 1967, under the following mission statement: “This university has once again reached that stage in history when people 
are talking about the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its own day was presumably considered new. Wishing to 
share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for our publication. Besides, things seemed slow around here.”

Today, The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. Two thousand five hundred 
copies of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. The New Journal is printed by TCI Press, 
Seekonk, Massachusetts; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. Office Address: 
P.O. Box 3311, New Haven, CT 06515.

While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its contents. All contents 
Copyright ©2022 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written 
permission of the publisher and editors in chief is prohibited. Recycle Icon from Flaticon.com.

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS (MAY) PUZZLE
PLAY MORE TNJ 
CROSSWORDS ON
OUR WEBSITE!
P
L
E
A
S
 
R
C
Y
ACROSS

	1	 Drinks
	 8	 Boycott
	 15	 City in Alberta with a 
Scottish namesake
	 16	        , to Bulgarians
	 17	                    und Isolde
	 18	 Cretan princess, 
daughter to King 
Minos
	 19	 Mornings, for short
	20	 Available w/o 
prescription
	 21	 Remaining
	 22	 Mode of public 
transportation
	 23	 Male Ibero-American
	 25	 Shiba Inus, per 
internet lingo
	 27	              flare
	 28	 With 34- and 41- 
across, central 
square of the “Nine 
Square Plan”*
	 31	 Resultant unified 
pantheon of the 
Aesir-Vanir War
	 33	 Combats
	34	 See 28-across*
	36	 Nitrogenous 
excretion in urine
	 37	 Second dropdown 
menu, often
	 38	 Garlic mayonnaise
	39	 Costae, familiarly
	40	 One hundreth of a 
Samoan tala
	 41	 See 28-across*
	42	 Vegetarian no-no
	43	 Ancient Roman 
getups
	45	 Caboose
	46	 Kennedy and 
Roosevelt, to friends
	 47	 Scope of awareness
	49	 Sacred works of 
choral music
	 51	 When you might 
become it?
	 52	 Antacid
	54	 It comes before “ini”
	 55	 Fib
	56	 Former
	 58	 Puffins and auks, for 
some
	60	 Paid no mind to
	 61	 Hit from behind
	 62	 Constituents of an 
epistolary novel
	63	 Korbinite                            
Bill, or a high speed 
emission from 
radioactive decay
DOWN

	1	 Middle phase of a 
seizure
	 2	 Bitter citrus thought 
to be a cross between 
a pomelo and  
mandarin
	 3	 Mustard gas, for one
	 4	 Apps for pics
	 5	 Conductors’ 
instruments
	 6	 Oft invoked Nereid 
whose name 
translates to 
“desired”
	 7	 Match up
	 8	 Pep
	 9	 One named Welsh 
singer-songwriter
	 10	 Englishman
	 11	 Ottoman 
commander, or a 
solid iron cooktop
	 12	 Sambucus racemosa 
or pubens
	 13	 Mexican spurges
	 14	 Miners’ hauls
	24	 Rather
	 26	 Foodie
	 28	 Currency of Nigeria
	 29	 Sounds of Bacchic 
frenzy
	30	 Slavic Paganist deity 
of  cattle and the 
underworld	
	 32	 Fitting direction 
which, even if the 
puzzle’s design 
is deciphered, 
surprisingly still does 
not quite point in 
the direction of  its 
“Rock”*
	 33	 Fitting direction 
	34	 Witch
	 35	 With a domain 
extension and scat,  
the beginning of a 
fool?
	44	 Mark Twain’s genric 
domain
	46	 Male household feline
	48	 Eldest daughter of 
Bruce and Demi,               
Willis
	49	 Fracas
	50	 Disreputable
	 51	 Work incessantly
	 53	 Rxs
	54	 Vestments
	 57	 Rug rat
	59	 Common nest egg
Lost in Elm City
Puzzle by Adam Winograd
© The New Journal
September 2023

