Publication date: April 2005
Volume: 37
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Matt Baron
- Editor-in-Chief: Romy Drucker
- Managing Editors: Concha Mendoza, Adriane Quinlan
- Designer: Sara Schneider
- Business Manager: Natasha Kim, Brian Wyda
- Photography Editor: Erica Deahl
- Senior Editors: Paige Austin, Sarah Laskow
- Production Manager: Mina Kimes
- Research Director: Helen Eckinger
- Associate Editors: Emily Kopley, David Zax
- Circulation and Subscription Managers: Anna Altman, Lane Rick
- Staff: Emily Koh, Casey Miner, Elizabeth St. Victor, Ivy Wang
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Laura Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou, Anson M Beard, Jr. Blaire Bennett, Edward B. Bennett, Richard Blow, Martha Brant, Jay Carney, Daphne Chang, Josh Civin, Jonathan M Clark, Constance Clement, Elisha Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Shetwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Tom Griggs, Stephen Hellman, Jane Kamensky, Brooks Kelley, Roger Lewis, E. Nobles Lowe, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Elizabeth and William Slifka, Adina and David Slifka, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stern Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

Sign's of the Time - Sarah Laskow
A Delicate Art - Emily Kopley
Sonic Youth - Casey Miner
Points of Departure -  
The Critical Angle: Broken Vision - Lane Rick
Essay: My Woman's Center - Elizabeth St. Victor
Endnote: The Don't-buy-it Diet - Mina Kimes


**Title: Sign's of the Time**
**Author: Sarah Laskow**
**Page number(s): 4**


Street signs mark the intersection if the city}- past and present. 



**Title: A Delicate Art**
**Author: Emily Kopley**
**Page number(s): 12**


Yalf conservators work to Sa'J!e what time will eventuai!J take . 



**Title: Sonic Youth**
**Author: Casey Miner**
**Page number(s): 15**


Troubled teens sound iff on what matters most.· 



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 24**



**Title: The Critical Angle: Broken Vision**
**Author: Lane Rick**
**Page number(s): 26**



**Title: Essay: My Woman's Center**
**Author: Elizabeth St. Victor**
**Page number(s): 33**



**Title: Endnote: The Don't-buy-it Diet**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 37**




**Title: Nativity Scene**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
RECENTLY, A THIRD-GRADER. TOURING 
the Yale Peabody Museum pointed at a 
glass case and asked . a question about 
the third floor's largely-ignored 1983 
exhibit, "Habitants of Southern New 
England." He did not ask about the 
most popular item (the arrowheads), 
the flashiest (the beaded deerskin jack-
et), or even the most gruesome (a color 
photo of an Indian burial ground, pep-
pered with skeletons). 

"Is that a stuffed man?" he asked, 
pointing to the glass cube, inside of 
which a man with skin as weathered as 
the Marlboro cowboy's sat absolutely 
still, his jet-black hair obscuring eyes in 
a perpetual stare. It was a logical ques-
tion: The boy had just wandered 
through the museum's third floor, past 
the "Birds of Connecticut" exhibit 
where lime green cases showcase 
stuffed Dodos and hundreds of other 
taxidermied hunting prizes. In front of 
him sat another animal behind another 
sheet of glass above another small 
placard with another declaration of a 
species: . . . the first settlers. 

If the third-grader had looked closer, 
he might not have asked the question at 
all: The First Settler (TFS) has finger-
nails as smooth as soapstone, hair as 
shiny as videotape and a hairline crack 
running through his left knee revealing 
his flesh to be paper white. "Everything 
disintegrates with time, even a plaster 
cast," Maureen DaRos, the Peabody's 
anthropological museum assistant, says 
wistfully. "Well, maybe not the rocks." 

Posed in imitation of a flint carver, 
The First Settler grips a large stone as 
one might grip a saltshaker. In front of 
his immaculate loincloth; resting on a 
field of blue-gray paint is a dusting of 
flint shards. By his right knee, TFS has 
arranged his finished arrowheads as 
young boys might arrange their base-
ball cards. 

More than any other case in the 
museum, the glass of The First Settler 
is oily with fingerprints. While it seems 
somewhat normal to display stuffed 
grizzly bears and pinned beetles, there's 
something about a man trapped in a 
cube of glass that draws handprints. 
Security guards pacing around get used 
to him, but on their first few shifts they 
might mistake him for a fatigued 
tourist who has plopped down to rest. 
But he's not just resting; The First 
Settler is a Sisyphus working for eterni-
ty. In the online catalog, he's known 
simply as "YPM 13931" or "Showcase 
Cast of Indian." His locality is listed as 
"unknown," and no current curator--
not even the 91 year-old archaeologist 
who last worked the job --has any idea 
where he came from. 

As long as anyone can remember, 
The First Settler, like his namesake, has 
always been around. A darkened con-
tact sheet of old insurance photos 
shows him in his previous position, 
where the "Daily Life in Ancient 
Egypt" exhibit now steals the spotlight. 
A faded square on the black stone 
ground marks his former home. 

"There was just some burlap behind 
him when we moved him," Mrs. 
DaRos explains, "Nothing like the 
environment he's in now." 

In 1983, to honor the 50th anniver-
sary of the Archaeological Society of 
Connecticut which links the findings 
of amateur archaeologists with those 
of archaeological scholars, Peabody 
curators rearranged hundreds of 
objects which had been displayed in 
random order into a dimly-lit "educa-
tional" exhibit. The exhibit chronolog-
ically traces each historical period with 
puny pen-and-ink sketches depicting 
the use of each tool. The purpose of 
the exhibit, like the purpose of archae-
ology, is to understand how people 
lived. The First Settler is a "living" 
example of this educational mission; a 
man arranged with the tools of his 
time, posed as his creators imagine he 
might have once posed. "Sometimes 
people think, 'Oh, the exhibit's so bor-
ing,"' DaRos says, scanning the arrow-
heads and soapstone bowls, "But then 
they turn around and the diorama is 
right over there." 

The exhibit is visited by third-graders, 
collectors who wish to compare the 
history of an arrowhead they've dug up 
to one displayed and Native American 
tribes. The tribes come to examine the 
remains in the museum's collection 
after they are notified in accordance 
with the Native American Grave 
Protection and Reappropriation Act, 
which gives them the right to claim 
what is theirs. Just this past March, a 
Sioux descendant and archaeological 
scholar accused the Peabody of steal-
ing from the tribe in the 1870s. Based 
on his research, the museum returned 
the fossils taken from Sioux land--
they always give back to "recognized 
tribes," but there are "fakers." So far, 
no one has claimed The First Settler. 

In 1911, a San Francisco museum 
made a plaster cast of the last living 
member of a tribe, and even kept his 
brain in a jar for posterity. While it's 
more likely The First Settler was a cast 
of a regular artist's model, it remains 
unclear where he came from. If you 
ignore the hairline crack and pretend 
he's really the man the exhibit says he 
is, you'll learn from an informational 
placard that "Native Americans arrived 
in what is now Connecticut around 
10,900 B.C., by which time the last ice 
sheet had retreated northward from 
the state." Though they would have 
liked to have gone further south, "The 
first settlers ... were prevented from 
proceeding south by the final ice sheet, 
which extended across Canada." 

Twelve thousand and five years later 
there's another ice sheet: a plate of 
glass between a plaster man and the 
curious hands that slide across 
the pane. 
-Adriane Quinlan


**Title: French Revolution**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

IN HIGH SCHOOL I COULDN'T HAVE THE 
French stud I dreamed of, but at least 
I was getting some action in French in 
Action, a famed language program cre-
ated by Yale Professor Pierre Capretz 
aimed at exposing students to French 
language and culture. Students are 
introduced to Robert, a bumbling 
American, and Mireille, a chic French 
art-history student, to follow their 
vaguely romantic adventures through 
France courtesy of workbooks, 
audio tapes and a whopping 26 hours 
of video. The program is based on the 
courses Capretz has been teaching at 
Yale since 1956--courses that pio-
neered a new system of language 
instruction. "I came to the United 
States in 1949 with the intent to spread 
French language and culture," he says. 
"I was appalled at the way languages in 
general were taught." More specifical-
ly, Capretz noted that French was 
taught without regard to French cul-
ture. "Culture is language, language is 
culture," he says. "So I tried to develop 
material with the real spoken language, 
and represent the real culture." 

The success of French in Action has 
caused it to spread beyond Yale class-
rooms. In 1987, Capretz, in conjunction 
with Annenberg/The Corporation for 
Public Broadcasting, consolidated his 
audio material and collection of over 
three thousand slides and embarked 
on a grueling three-month film shoot 
in Paris. The result was French in 
Action, a program that has been used 
extensively in secondary schools and 
universities around the United 
States, even in rural Alabama schools 
such as mine, a testament to the pro-
gram's pervasive success. But, 
Capretz's audience has not been limit-
ed to formal students; thanks to its 
backing by Annenberg/CPB, French in 
Action has aired on numerous public 
broadcast stations around the country 
and has been picked up by satellite in 
Australia and Brazil. Roger Ebert 
ranked it alongside the works of 
Shakespeare as one of the five things 
he would desire if he were marooned 
on a desert island; and according to 
Capretz, Annenberg/CPB once esti-
mated that eight million people had 
viewed French in Action in the United 
States alone. 

Now, 18 years after its video compo-
nent was filmed, French in Action has a 
decidedly vintage quality. "Since it was 
shot in '87, there are a number of 
things that are outdated," Capretz says, 
specifically citing the cultural aspects 
of the video that are now obsolete. 
Euros have replaced the francs with 
which Robert and Mireille purchased 
aperitifs at La Closerie des Lilas, and all 
of the characters are noticeably bereft 
of cell phones. "Everyone in France 
has a portable!" Capretz exclaims. In 
my high school French class, however, 
we were more amused by the charac-
ters' eighties get-ups: Robert strolls 
through Paris donning a white sports 
coat over his jeans and a baby-blue 
Yale tee-shirt, and many of Mireille's 
friends sport what can only be called 
the French equivalent of mall-hair. 

Capretz knows that it is time for French 
in Action to receive a major face-lift, 
and he is poised to unveil a new and 
improved version for the digital age: 
French in Interaction. 

Although filming has not begun, 
Capretz imagines a plot for French in 
Interaction that will teach students about 
modern French culture while still 
using footage from French in Action. 
Tragically, Robert and Mireille have 
not ended up together--perhaps I 
read too much into her invitation mid-
way through French in Action, for 
Robert to address her with the casual 
tu, rather than the formal vous. "The 
beginning will take place on Yale cam-
pus with the two original characters, 
Robert and Mireille," Capretz says. 
"They will be walking across Beinecke 
Plaza, when their paths cross and they 
recognize each other--they each now 
have a child at Yale. Then, they'll 
repair to some place, maybe Naples 
Pizza, and recall everything that hap-
pened twenty years ago." Thus, each 
episode of French in Interaction will 
begin with a new two-minute segment 
that updates the flashback from French 
in Action that follows. 

In addition to the updated video seg-
ments, French in Interaction will 
include--voila!--a number of com-
puter-aided interactive exercises. 
French in Action includes audio tapes 
that instructed students to repeat 
phrases uttered by both Capretz and 
the characters from the videos. 
"Now," says Capretz, "as [the student] 
answers, the response is recorded on 
the computer. Then it automatically 
plays back what the character said and 
what the student said." This allows 
students to compare their own 
responses to the originals. Students 
will also be able to watch the video 
portion of the program on the computer, 
with captions if they wish, which will 
allow them to form a stronger associa-
tion between the spoken and 
written word. 

On a practical level, French 
in Interaction will update 
Capretz's wildly successful 
teaching methods. And on a 
romantic one, perhaps it will 
finally allow Robert and 
Mireille to realize their sup-
pressed passion for one anoth-
er. After all, at the end of 
French in Action, he rescued her 
from a burning building. The 
two belong together. 
-Helen Eckinger


**Title: A Perfect Fit?**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

SHORT PANT LEGS DRIVE UYEN LE 
crazy. Ideally, pants should graze the 
ground, so as not to reveal too much 
shoe, she says. While Le's preference 
might seem perfectly ridiculous, as the 
president of YCouture she has always 
had her own sense of what's haute and 
what's not. "My philosophy is very sim-
ple, my fashion is for purely artistic rea-
sons ... " Le explains, "Simplification is 
my thing." 

To see her vision realized, Le created 
YCouture, an organization for student 
clothing designers. The group, which 
focuses on collaborative efforts 
between designers and the promotion 
of individual collections, extends 
beyond Le's vision of fashion as art: It 
proves fashion means business. 

It encourages a free exchange of ideas 
amongst its designers, producers and 
models, and lets Yalies use the language 
of textile, stitches, cut and color to 
communicate. YCouture's mission is 
two-fold (or pleated). It caters to the 
Yale population by cultivating a fash-
ion-conscious environment on campus 
and to the extended New Haven com-
munity by engaging in service projects. 

But the seams of the organiza-
tion are not as clean as Le would 
have hoped. She and the rest of 
the board have struggled to deter-
mine precisely how the group 
should operate. Since its debut on 
January 23, 2005, YCouture's 
biggest jaunt was staging the 
finale for the inaugural Winter 
Arts Festival. This initial 
attempt to rally the Yale com-
munity around fashion proved 
highly successful and highly 
lucrative. The group sold more than 
one hundred tickets, and all of the 
show's proceeds went to tsunami 
relief. 

This charitable donation 
demonstrated YCouture's position as 
a multi-faceted organization--equally 
dedicated to community service and 
fashion awareness. However, since the 
organization supports multiple design-
ers--all of whom assign individual 
meaning to their work--Le emphasizes 
the challenge YCouture has faced in 
choosing one message that serves to 
positively represent the group without 
disregarding the personalities that com-
prise it. Because YCouture acts as an 
umbrella organization for Yale's fashion 
community, it needs to split its effort 
between coordinating group 
shows--like the one which 
closed the Winter Arts 
Festival--and assisting 
individual design collec-
tions. When YCouture 
came into fruition late 
last year, many design-
ers interested in the 
group already had their 
own show ideas under-
way. But, the priority of 
YCouture's debut collec-
tion meant that many per-
sonal projects were put on 
hold. 

This caused such a 
reaction among the group's 
members that for the 
remainder of the year, the 
organization will only sup-
port individual collections 
and not attempt any 
large projects. 

Even though YCouture is less than a 
year old, the group is already looking to 
revamp its repertoire. There are two 
possible futures for YCouture: to pro-
duce and design shows which feature 
the collections of many designers or 
assist separate projects. Aiming for 
both could confuse the organization's 
image and result in overextended 
resources. 

Le wants to prevent 
YCouture from mimicking fashion's 
cut-throat nature. Even within the Yale 
bubble, she worries that attitudes more 
suited to Madison Avenue than to Elm 
Street might emerge: "I'm afraid self-
interest might take and it will fall apart." 
In what is already an aggressive aca-
demic environment, Le has no desire to



**YCouture: A Fashionable Struggle**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
foster more competition within Yale's 
campus. Warning:· A\l YCoutute 
designers . come equipped with scis-
sors and needles .. But Orly Friedman, 
the vice-president of production, 
takes a different view: "I think it real-
ly works better if everyone has their 
own project, and uses the group as 
support." Le acknowledges the diffi-
culty in coordinating group projects. 
Sometimes the bias each designer has 
for his or her own collection is more 
severe than the cut of the dresses 
coursing down the runway. 
Plus, 
designers are .reluctant to let other 
individuals intervene with their work 
• 
in any capacity, fearing that their 
vision· n11ght be compromised. "It's 
very hard for you as an artist to let 
someone else take care of the art-
work," Le continues. 
Jon Fougner, the 
student-producer 
for 
YCouture, suggests two 
ways for members to 
avoid 
competition. 
First, the group must 
offer "incentive struc-
tures" to prevent inter-
nal contests. 
The 
conunuruty. servtce 
projects· and special 
events 
-
that 
YCouture plans to 
orgaruze next year 
will hopefully diffuse 
such competition. 
A 
Project Runway-esque 
event tops the list of 
potential activities. 
It 
will be open to anyone 
interested, regardless of 
previous fashion expert-
ise. YCouture will select a 
specific material 
such as foil or a 
trash bag that all participants must 
then transform into a fashionable 
item. Le envisions famous designers 
and 
Yale 
aluruni 
judging 
the 
final products. 
Additional projects would likely 
include a lecture series and designing 
April2005 
sessions. 
In terms of conununity 
service, Le hopes that YCouture Will 
continue to contribute to important 
causes. She has also proposed a pro-
gram in which YCouture members 
would help battered women living in 
shelters improve their presentation 
for job interviews. 
In the meantime, YCouture will 
continue to struggle to find its fit. 
But this will become even more diffi-
cult after Le steps down from her 
presidential post at the year's end. 
Finding an appropriate' replacement 
should be one of the organization's 
top priorities. According to Fougtler, 
groups "sink or swim based on how 
they pick the next year's leadership." 
YCouture is no exception. Le's pred-
ecessor must be willing to introduce 
new incentives to lure more Y alies 
into the fashion rea1rn. It is a job that 
requires the threading together of 
business, couture and a vivid itnagina-
tion and proves, like Le believes, 
. "Creativity goes a very long way .... " 
Hopefully next year's fashionable 
pants will avoid design disaster. After 
all, fashion should be simple. 
-EmifyKoh


**Into the Woods**
**Author:  IJ Wang**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

'THE STORY OF 'IH E YAI E FOREST BEGINS 
indoors. Once inhabited by paleontolo-
gist and explorer Othniel C. Marsh, 
Marsh Hall is a charming old house 
which now accommodates the Yale 
Institute of Sustainable Forestry. 
"Institute," however, seerns a sterile 
word to describe this comfortable niche 
in academia untainted by titne or the 
upheavals of politics. Upon entering, I 
can't suppress the feeling that I've 
stepped into soniebody's home. The 
wooden spiral staircase squeaks amiably 
at every step. I atn here to see Mark 
Ashton, professor of Silviculture and 
director of the Yale school forests. In 
his office, a friendly clutter prevails: A 
mobile adorned with dried seed-pods 
hangs above the table, various rolls of 
paper are stuffed in containers with 
handwritten labels like "storage for 
maps in tubes," and an aquarium quiet-
ly grows algae. I meet with Ashton and 
two 
doctoral 
students 
Samantha 
Rothman, the Extension and Outreach 
coordinator, and Alexander Evans, the 
coordinator of Mapping and Inventory. 
Sam and Zander, both appropriately 
dressed in sage green and brown, cheer-
fully introduce themselves and begin 
telling me about the 10,880 acres of 
forest owned by Yale 
a plot of land 
that rnost undergraduates don't even 
know exists. 

There are a total of eight tracts of 
land in the Yale School Forest system. 
The land is not endowed and therefore 
must be self-sustaining, paying for itself 
through timber production. "You have 
to rnanage it sustainably," Sam says, 
"because-this is for the long haul." The 
largest tract 
and coincidentally, the 
largest physical possession of Yale 
University 
the Yale-Myers Forest is 
also the closest to campus, spanning 
the towns of Ashford, Eastford, Union 
and Woodstock, Connecticut. Myers' 
distance from big cities and its consid-
erable size tnake it a bona fide forest, a 
rare phenomenon in the dense urban 
landscape of the East Coast. In fact, it 
sits in an area called the "Last Green 
Valley," a surprisingly large chunk of 
Connecticut left undeveloped due to 
what Zander describes as "historical 
accident." 

Urbanization is a considerable obsta-
cle to the study of forestry on the East 
Coast. The Princeton School Forest, 
Sarn explains, is more like an urban 
9



**Yale's Myers Forest: A Hands-on Laboratory**
**Author: Erica Deahl**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
park than a forest, due to its close 
proximity to campus. 
Constant use 
disturbs the forests' utility as an envi-
ronment for controlled scientific study. 
While the Yale-Myers Forest largely 
escapes the problematic side-effects of 
urbanization, Tourney Forest, another 
of the eight which hugs the city of 
Keene, New Hampshire, is not so 
lucky. Visitors frequently leave trash 
behind, which the institute must send 
teams to clean up. 
"That's the unfortunate aspect," 
exp1ains Ashton. "We find things· like 
couches stuffed with tofu." 
"literally," darifies Zander after 
a pause. 

Myers operates with three goals in 
tnind: research, education and man-
agement. The land serves as a hands-
on laboratory where students and pro-
fessors can conduct controlled proj-
ects in order to study forest manage-
tnent techniques. Most of the land i~ 
closed 
to 
the public. 
"We have a lot of 
expenments out m 
the woods," Zander 
explains, "So we can't 
have a lot of people 
trampmg 
every 
which way." 

But there are ways 
for the public to 
experience the forest. 
A 
long trail that 
crosses some of the 
most beautiful parts 
of the Myers Forest 
is popular among the 
hiking 
community 
and a destination of 
some Yale FOOT 
trips. Students can 
conduct research as 
faculty assistants or 
take 
silviculture 
classes, which tradi-
tionally 
involves 
spending 
a 
few 
nights there in the 
spring. The institute also hosts events 
such as the Christtnas Tree Cut, during 
which anyone can join the Society of 
American Foresters members in har-
vesting pine trees and transporl ing 
them back to the Marsh Hall lawn, 
where they are sold each year. 

Another annual conununity event is 
the "Bio-Blitz" 
an ali-day and night 
wilderness excursion in which partici-
pants attempt to count how many dif-
ferent species they can identify in 24 
hours. Usually people give up at night-
fall, but Zander lights up when he 
remembers, "We have a bat person this 
year!" 

As for School of Forestry students, 
they embark on a week-long forest 
adventure at the be · 
· g of their 
masters' study, a rite of passage that 
every hopeful forester must brave. 
During this rirne they trarnp around in 
the woods, sleep in tiny bunks, get 
eaten alive by mosquitoes and experi-
ence hands-on what forestry is all 
about. 
Forestry is dirty, trying and 
character building. 

The thing that strikes me most about 
the three foresters is their apparent 
obsession with the forest. Sam gushes 
about her summers spent doing field 
work there, showing me a photograph 
of the sutnrner crew engaged in an 
intense game of wiffle-ball. When I 
ask how much rirne they usually spend 
in the forest, Zander replies that he is 
there at least one day a week during the 
year and two to three days a week dur-
ing the surmner. 
Mark just built a 
house there. 

Sam smns it up for me: "When I 
went to Yale-Myers I knew this is 
where I wanted to be." 

As Zander declares, "It's a labor 
of love." 
-Erica Deahl


**Unlikely Plot**
**Author: Anna Altman**

I PASS UNDER 'IH E G.A:IE OF THE GROVE 
Street Cemetery and separate from 
the crowd of students quickly pass-
ing by. The epigraph on the portal-
"The Dead Shall Be Raised" 
may 
be a source of comfort to those who 
come here, but the words retnind me 
that a cemetery serves as a final des-
tination, an ending, not a fertile 
ground on which to build a life. 

Knocking on the frosted glass door 
of the cemetery's brownstone office, 
I wonder what it must be like for 
William Cameron, the cemetery 
superintendent, to walk through 
these gates on a daily basis.-

When he opens the door, 
Cameron's disposition inunediately 
confirms my assumption that he 
must be thickskinned: He brusquely 
offers me a wooden chair just beside 
the door, situated at least five feet 
away from where he sits behind his 
desk, and asks me coldly what I want. 
"What don't I do," he scoffs, describ-
ing his profession. "It would take me 
a week, two weeks to tell you." 

Cameron ft.rst came to Grove Street 
in 
order 
"work 
outdoors." 
However, a graveyard seems an 
unlikely destination for someone 
simply seeking fresh air, and his 
clipped answers don't sufficiently 
explain why he has stayed for thirty 
years. But Cameron's surroundings 
suggest that he is more suited for 
cadavers than cubicles. His office is 
the only sign of life 
it brims with 
large plants and the continued yelps 
of three small dogs. There are no fil-
ing cabinets to be found. 

But the pets and plants in 
Cameron's office provide only the 
smallest ._ indication of his unusual 
r 
profession. Just feet away from 
-
' 
Cameron hovers his wife, Joan 
Cameron, who works as the ceme-
tery's assistant superintendent. The 
Camerons have been married for 
more than fifty years and have 
worked together for his entire tenure 
as superintendent. "We're a team," he 
tells me as he slouches back in ·his 
chair, fingers interlaced over his 
trtm torso. 

Cameron's "team" includes his four 
children and two grandchildren. 
While most people consider death an 
unexpected tragedy, the experience of 
working in a cemetery has caused 
. Cameron's family to deal with death's 
logistical details with overly rational 
precision. Growing up in an environ-
ment consistently plagued by loss has 
an effect on the children, who, he 
tells me, are now more "willing to 
accept the reality of death." 

I find myself squeamish and fidg-
ety when we talk about cremations, 
burialso, and tombstones. Death is 
not something everyone can stom-
ach; it is an acquired taste. Most peo-
ple, according to Cameron, try to 
ignore the inevitability of death, and 
fami1ies are often left unprepared 
when death does in fact occur. 

"There can be a lot of confusion for 
the family," he says with the authori-
ty of a man who has buried more 
than 7 50 corpses. 

For each burial, he becomes an 
integral part of that family's grieving 
process. "Everyone grieves in a dif-
ferent way," he tells me, recalling a 
Russian woman who visited her hus-
band's grave every day for years 
before Cameron finally buried her 
alongside hirn. Before she died, the 
woman often sought Cameron's 
company. His wife boasts about how 
good her husband is at his job; and 
how strongly he affects the bereaved. 
"People really cling to Bill for com-
fort," she muses as she plays with the 
dog curled in her lap. 

Though Cameron insists that "not 
too many people make an impres-
sion," on hirn, he acknowledges that 
helping people through a difficult 
tirne is a significant part of his work. 
"You get close to people," he admits. 
But when his job requires hirn to 
bury someone he knows, it-becomes 
different 
situation: 
"It does 
bother you." 

In a sense, Cameron and his wife 
are earthly angels. "We get along so 
good with people, I can't believe it," 
he says. Perhaps Cameron carne to 
the cemetery to work outdoors, but 
helping people has become a signifi-
cant part of why he now lives for 
the job. 

Catneron eventually divulges that 
he's writing a book about his work. It 
was his own idea, he explains, and he 
hasn't thought about selling it yet. 
"It's hard to get into," he admits (he 
can only write for "two, maybe three 
hours at a tirne") but he already has a 
title: Life in a Cemetery. As he goes on 
past the title to recite the opening 
line, I atn reminded that a cernetery is 
not just a graveyard. It is a tirne cap-
sule for people and memories. "Yes, 
there is life in a cemetery," Cameron 
reads, "and I've lived that life for 25 
years." 
__,Anna Altman 



**The Horowitz Bros. Corner**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
•
-
n October 20, the two surviving owners of Horowitz Bros., Arthur 
and Leonard Horowitz, abandoned Chapel Street to its future. 
Where an ocean of buttons and waves of fabric once flooded 
every corner, long-time employees waited out the store's final hour 
among boxes strewn like driftwood on an empty seabed. In the past few 
decades as other Chapel Street stores fled the city, Horowitz Bros. stayed on, a 
community landmark. But now even they were closing shop. One woman 
walked out of the double doors and onto the street with tears streaming down 
her face. Her name was Maria Acampora and for thirty years, she had been the 
Horowitz's bookkeeper. 

That day Suzanna Lengyel wandered through the store, taking it all in. An 
occasional customer throughout the decades, she had shopped h~re only when 
her husband's suit jackets needed new elbow patches. For the past nine months, 
however, with uttnost dedication, she had collected a library of documents,-
some mourning the store's demise, others praising its legacy. 
She asked a 
saleslady where she might find the owners and followed the woman's finger to 
the figure of Art Horowitz. Worried he rnight be gruff and nervous about what 
she had come to tell him, Suzanna introduced herself 
Art seemed happy to meet her (a friend of his cousin Phil, she said) and he 
listened as she told him about what Phil's wife Hilda had begun ca11ing 
Suzanna's "obsession." Suzanna could not believe that as an older version of 
ew Haven disappeared behind the fa<_;:ades of luxury apat tments and interna-
tional chains, the city had made no gesture to recognize the cornmiunent of the 
Horowitz tradition. B..ut if the bureaucrats at Gty Hall had not remembered the 
Horowitz brothers, Suzanna's dossier proved that plenty of 
ew Haven resi-
dents did. Now she wanted to channel these collective memories into a physi-
cal sign of the city's esteem. Her plan: to renarne the 
intersection of Chapel and State streets, 
where the store had stood for 
so long, Horowitz Bros. 
Corner. 


orowitz Bros., rooted in 
New Haven since 1914, 
had succeeded with the 
same sales pitch for years, 
selling quality fabric, various house-
hold goods and inexpensive, sturdy 
clothing 
the inventory of a classic 
. 
department store. Like the last ivory 
key on a piano, it aged slowly while 
the surrounding stores were replaced 
by plastic law offices, nail salons and 
Dunkin' Donuts· franchises 
signs of 
New Haven's struggle to survive in a 
post-industrial economy. The city can 
not 
preserve 
businesses 
like 
Horowitz's for nostalgia's sake. 

Scattered among the newer store-
fronts, there are vacant ones 
the 
remains of failed enterprises 
signs 
of a brighter future that never seems 
to come. Yet New Haven's recent his-
tory is not without its successes. 
Street signs like the one Suzanna 
envisions memorialize those who 
have given New Haven hope. Bishop 
Tutu Corner, Elsie Cofield Way, 
Steven J. Papa Corner and other signs 
prove that an individual can impact a 
city, even one as obstinate as 
New Haven. 
he history of these signs 
begins 
at the corner of 
College and Chapel, the city's 
heart. Here, New Haven thrives. 
Yale's faux-Gothic buildings share 
sidewalks with the brand name stores 
that feed off the University's eco-
nomic power. The New Haven 
Green and the locally famous Claire's 
CornerCopia bustle with activity. At 
the corner, a name famous not only 
in New Haven, but around the world, 
presides over the downtown land-
scape 
Bishop Desmond Tutu. 
The Board of Aldermen voted on 
the name of the corner in 1987. 
Although this neighborhood teems 
with activity today, two decades ago 
this 
stretch 
of 
Chapel, 
Horowitz's struggling lower Chapel 
neighborhood today, glumly hoped 
14 
for a more fortunate future. In · the 
1980s, Joel Schiavone, then a recent 
Yale graduate, began his career as a 
developer with a vision of an 
improved Chapel Street. Remaking, 
remodeling 
and 
revitalizing, 
Schiavone turned the neighborhood 
into a capitalist haven; he was "lauded 
as New Haven's savior. · · 
While Schiavone was scrubbing the 
dirt off New Haven's face, he neg-
lected to keep his own hands· clean. 
In 1987, when the anti-apartheid 
struggle in South Africa garnered 
world-wide support and the Ut).ited 
States imposed sanctions on that 
country, Schiavone flagrantly ignored 
world's 
condemnation 
attended the Young Presidents' 
not his only contributions to leave a 
mark. The New Haven tycoon inad-
vertently jump-started a city-wide 
street-naming trend. 


**A City's Legacy in Street Signs**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

f most residents of New Haven 
do not remember the corner's 
story, they certainly recognize 
tts name . 
. "Have you heard of Bishop Tutu 
Corner?" Romy Drucker, a Yale 
College 
sophomore, 
asked 
leather-skinned store owner of the 
Artistic Beauty Salon. He nodded, 
although his yellowed eyes rema1ned 
blank. "We want to have something 
like that for the Horowitz brothers, 
in order to recognize all the years 
they were here." 

"Yeah, sure," says the store owner. 
"Mike 
" he calls across the room, 
"Sign this for them, okay?" Mike 
wore a stained white undershirt and a 
mustache. The somnolence of these 
two men contrasted strangely with 
their surroundings. Even Romy's 
feathery pink scarf, normally the 
brightest color for block~ paled in 
comparison with the cloying colors 
of the salon. 

On a wet and drizzly Friday morn-
ing in December, Romy and Suzanna 
petitioned the shops on Chapel Street 
for support of the Horowitz Bros. 
street sign. Romy did the ta11cing, 
while Suzanna added supportive 
comrnents. The morning had been 
fa1rly successful, but, after the beauty 
salon, Romy looked as if she was not 
entirely sure why, in the middle of 
exams, she was spending a morning 
in downtown New Haven talking 
about street signs. 

She and Suzanna had met after an 
article she published about the clos-
ing of Horowitz Bros., "Endstitch," 
appeared in Volume 37, Number 1 of 
The New JournaL The closing line of 
Romy's elegy implored the city not to 
let the store's legacy slip into obliv-
ion. Suzanna, sensing an ally, imme-
diately contacted Romy. Suzanna's 
kindness 
conviction 
were 
refreshing; one meeting in the sterile 
underground of Machine City turned 
iq.to weekly pow-wows. The two 
make an unlikely pair: a librarian with 
a Hungarian accent and an undergrad 
with one from Long Island. 

Suzanna opened her archive of 
newspaper clippings, letters and 
notes to check off the Artistic 
Left to right: Hzlda Horowit~ S u~nna Lengyel and Bitsie Clark hard at work. 
of Aldermen. But that was before the 
Beauty Salon on her list of stores. 
street sign. craze and the accusations 
She had been up this block on 
of political pandering. 
Monday, and many names on the list 
When the Board named Bishop 
had already been appealed to for sig-
Tutu Corner, few people (including 
natures. Near the corner, she found 
Joel Schiavone) took notice. But in 
support from the Vietnarnese owners 
1989, after the death of Salvatore 
of Nails Plus, who spoke only a few 
Consiglio, founder and owner of 
words of English. At one store, she 
Sally's Apizza, the Wooster Street 
befriended a girl hired to ·brush the 
comrnunity petitioned to have a cor-
dozens of wigs that lined its walls. 
ner named after this cultural icon, 
She hesitated. when she spotted Nu 
farnous in local legend both for his 
Haven, an adult bookstore, but she 
delicious pies and his rivalry with 
pushed herself inside, where a skinny 
pizza-making father-in-law Frank 
man signed the petition with a pen 
Pepe. New Haven's residents realized 
held in perfectly manicured fingers. ~ that rather than let history disappear, 
The diversity of those who were now 
they could enshrine it in signs bearing 
throwing their support towards. 
the nap1es of their neighborhood 
Horowitz Bros. would s.urpri~e the· heroes. But afte.t; Sal Consiglio's sign 
housewives who once s~opped at the went up at Olive Street and Wooster, 
store. But when Suzanna had said her 
the Italian societies of the Wooster 
piece, altnost everyone signed her 
conununity, who first encouraged 
petition. 

s recently as 2002, there 
would have been no reason 
for Romy and Suzanna to 
brave the cold in search of support. 
In the past, street signs needed little 
more than a blessing from the Board 
April2005 
immigration from Italy to New 
Haven, all wanted their own. 
The 
trend spread from Wooster Street 
into the African-American cornrnuni-
ty, where reverends and bishops of 
various churches were honored for 
selfless dedication to their parishes. 
By 2003, it seemed the Board was 
voting to erect another slgn for a dif-
ferent segment of the city's popula-
tion every few months. During the 
height of the craze, a mosque peri-
tioned for a "Nasi Moharnmed" cor-
ner, a project that was derailed only 
when the city realized that the person 
in question was not a local figure but 
the prophet Mohammed. 

As signs cropped up in all corners 
of the city, tension mounted. Some 
claitmed the Board was weighing 
down every inch of New Haven with 
meaningless monuments. In 2003, 
The New Haven Register asked readers 
to "sound off' on the question, "Is 
the naming of street corners for indi-
viduals overdone?" A related article 
argued that aldermen used the signs 
to curry favor with their constituen-
cies by drawing "laundry lists of 
names, some of them arguably ques-
tionable." Citizens reacted with indig-
nation: The signs were an honor, not 
an empty political gesture. One 
woman marched indignantly into the 
mayor's office and demanded that 
even more signs bear the narnes of 
locals, arguing that streets named 
after figures like John Davenport no 
15 



**Title: A Corner of Their Own**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
longer 
meant 
anything 
to 
the 
• 
commun1ty. 

Since then, the Board of Aldermen 
has drawn up an official procedure 
for the naming of corners, which 
Albert Lucas, longtime head of the 
Board of Aldermen office, calls "rel-
atively simple." Gathering signatures 
of local businesses and residents is 
the flrst step, after which, with leg-
islative support, the item appears 
before two committees: Municipal 
Services ·and City Planning. If it is 
recommended, the entire Board 
votes on the ·measure. Once the 
aldermen unanimously approve, the 
mayor and the city clerk must sign 
off. Only then does the order make it 
to Trafflc and Parking, where, for 7 5 
to 100 taxpayer dollars, a new sign 
is born. 

These official regulations, still little 
more than a few handwritten phras-
es, sit in a drawer in the Board of 
Aldermen office, the administrative 
heart of the city. Here, the offlce's 
employees 
human encyclopedias of 
New Haven history 
remember the 
naming of Bishop Tutu corner and 
every street sign since the more 
recent craze. While each aldermanic 
term lasts two years, the historic·al 
memory of this . office lasts much 
longer. The e.mployees understand 
why the regulations were put in 
place. They know that rewriting his-
tory and changing the names of 
streets can honor one person's con-
tribution to the city while erasing 
' . 
another's. 

lthough she still passes down 
Elsie Cofield Way · everyday 
on 
her 
way 
AIDS 
Interfaith, Elsie Cofield no longer 
plays an active role in the organiza-
tion she founded. While others pro-
vide medical support and counseling 
to New Haven's HIV population, 
twice a day Cofield makes the 
rounds in the building, giving every-
one a hug. When she started AIDS 
Interfaith 18 years ago, however, her 
clients needed much more than 
hugs. She fought to provide them 
with basic services 
even wheel-
chairs 
at a time when many people 
shrunk from the taboo of the 
disease. 

Cofield became part of New 
Haven's history in 1966, when the 
Immanuel Baptist Church asked her 
The empty Horowitz Bros. store has not yet removed its famous .front. (Photo by Adriane Quinlan) 
16 
husband, Dr. Curtis Cofield III, to 
lead its congregation. The family left 
North Carolina and settled in the 
Elm City. First as a minister's wife, 
then as a teacher, Cofleld began to 
change the community .. She 
r~n.:: 
pageants, youth groups and soup 
kitchens out of the church;· in effect, 
. she raised half of the city's children. 
Her 
most lasting 
contribution, 
though, was her AIDS work, which 
educated New Haven's healthy and 
cared for its sick. 

When Alvis Brooker, a former stu-
dent of Colfield's, was elected to the 
Board of Aldermen, naming street 
signs was in vogue, and he remem-
bered his elementary school teacher. 
On May 27, 2001, Cofleld stood out-
side AIDS Interfaith, amid the whis-
tles and cheers of friends and admir-
ers. This small alley, 'once named Gill 
for a reason its residents could not 
remember, ·became Elsie Cofield 
Way for a reason they ·could. 

Unlike most of the Board's street 
signs, Elise Cofleld Way renamed the 
street in its entirety over the objec-
tions of the family of George Gill, . 
whom the street had originally com-
memorated. Gill, a stucco plasterer 
and local businessman, was a relic of 
a previous century. Just as present 
communities 
had 
resented 
Register's assertion that their icons 
didn't matter, the heirs of a more 
distant past felt slighted by the 
Board's disregard for their role in 
New Haven's history. 

Even Cofield is unsure why the 
Board changed the street name. She. 
certainly does not lack for recogni-
tion for her work. Plaques clutter the 
walls of her office and spill into the 
adjoining room, already full of arti-
cles, clippings and awards. On her 
desk, a picture of Cofield beneath 
her sign is overshadowed by a shot 
of her standing next to a grinning 
President Clinton. 

Although she passes her sign every 
day, "I don't think about it," she said. 
THENEWJO 
AL 


--- Page 17 ---

•• 
. : . . 
~ 
. . 
• ....
. 
.•' 
.-:::· 
,I 
. . } . -,.. 
-~ 
"I didn't think about it then." 

ven · with guidelines in place, 
the controversy ·over public 
memorials lingers. With New 
Haven's many honorable citi-:-
zens both past and present, the 
Board must somehow decide who 
deserves to see his or her name, if 
~ ·• 
:. 
'" not up in lights, at least in municipal 
green and white. 

To Suzanna, there is no question 
that the Horowitz brothers deserve 
recognition. She has been friends 
with Hilda Horowitz for years and 
found -her husband Phil to be "a 
wonderfully, 
exceptionally 
nice 
man." When he died a year and a half 
ago, Suzanna was among the crowd 
of mourners who listened as the 
rabbi claimed, "If there were Jewish 
saints, Phil would have been one of 
them." It was then, that Suzanna 
began to wonder how the city could 
pay the family tribute. 

Street sign proposals often begin 
with an individual simply looking to 
honor a friend or colleague. Such 
grassroots sentiment _gtves street 
signs their power as symbols, but has 
also been the most common source 
of their controversy. Those in power 
can more easily honor the people 
they care about . 

Without an initial connection to 
the Board, Suzanna struggled to 
push her idea forward. At one point, 
she said, someone whom she had 
tried to contact seemed hostile to her 
proposal and had vaguely suggested 
that the fatnily was making a hefty 
profit on the sale of the building. 

Bitsie Clark, the Alderwon1an for 
Ward 7 
lower Chapel Street 
was 
supportive, but as she wrote Romy in 
December, "There is -a need for a 
groundswell of people to push for 
some way to honor the store. 
Suzanna Lengyl and I did not seem 
to have the requisite clout to get the 
'• 
. . . 
-~- ---.. _ . 
._, 
--. 
.. 
... 
··---~ ·: ......... 
_.;: 
' ( -· 
•' 
_.-:------
city to pay attention." In this city, 
Bishop Tutu Corner presides over the ci!J streets. (Photo by Sara Schneider) 
April2005 
17 


--- Page 18 ---

even erecting a street 
hefty political clout. 

stgn requues 
tephen J. Papa, Sr. has some 
ideas about how to make 
politicians notice him. He's 
been doing. it for years. 

One day in October, Papa came . 
home and found that thieves had 
broken through the backdoor and 
taken some of Mrs. Papa's jewelry 
with them. But they had also dis-
turbed Papa's most treasured sanctu-
ary 
a room . full of newspapers. 
("My name was on the front cover of 
the Register two days ago," he chor-
tled.) The thieves shuffled through 
decades worth of newspaper clip-
pings, became frustrated and hit the 
wall so hard it cracked. Papa doesn't 
know what they were looking for. 

Amid the pile of New Raven's histo-
ry in headlines: "Papa founds the 
Dwight Redevelopment .Agency," 
"Papa wrangles with a teacher's 
union ready to walk off the · job," 
"Papa is appointed to the Board of 
dance what Suzanna lacked. 

"I was here one day and my grand-
son called me up, 'You have to come 
down to our store,' he said. When I 
went outside, the mayor, the con-
gress lady, the president of St. 
Raphael's were all there. I thought 
something had happened!" 

It had. In the middle of the crowd 
standing outside 
his 
childhood 
home, on the signpost for the corner 
of Chapel and Orchard Street, a 
eserves to see 
ts) at east zn 
not u 
zn 
reen an 
it e. 
Education of New Haven," to the 
Welfare Department, then to the 
housing authority and to the Livable 
City Initiative. In the photos his face 
changes with the years, but also with 
the seasons. Traditionally, he plays 
Christopher 
Columbus 
in 
oa~ 
zs or er name) z 
Santa 
an octogenarian with a scrag-
gly beard, sitting with his cane and 
bum hip an his easy chair. But Papa 
is rarely at home. · "My schedule fills 
up so darn fast,'! he said. "All volun-
teer, thousands of hours, and when I 
tell you thousands, I mean many 
many hours." Most recently, Papa has 
been spending time talking to 
patients at St. Raphael's Hospital. In 
his opinion every corner of the city 
could benefit from what his grand-
green beacon floated. "Stephen ]. 
Papa Corner," it read. "I actually 
cried,'' Papa said, but then he sat 
back, thoughtfully. "I don't know 
how they kept it from me. ... I have so 
many connections!" 

nlike Papa, a New Haven 
man about town, for most of 
her life, Suzanna was not 
THE NEW JOURNAL 
Columbus Day Parade, George 
Washington on Presidents Day, and, 
of 
course, 
Claus 
every 
Christmas for the past fifty years. 
"I am Santa Claus," Papa chuckled. 
Come December, children start ring-
ing the doorbell, seeking out Santa in 
the days before Christmas. Had the 
thieves found Papa at home tha~ 
October, they would have still found 
18 
mother called "constructive criti-
cism 
which you should always give, 
so long as you're right." 

After all these years, Papa has 
learned how to make people listen to 
hin1 and his criticisms. Papa is the 
model of a street sign honoree: an 
individual who believes he can sin-
gle-handedly change the city. A ruth-
less self-promoter, he has in abun-




**Horowitz Brothers Corner**
**Author: Sarah Laskow**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
involved in city business. But once 
she started, she was determined to 
effect change by seeing Horowitz 
Brothers Corner become a reality. 
"Why shouldn't I accomplish it?" -
she asked. "People are able to make 
changes. Why shouldn't I be able to 
make this little change?" 

In January, when Romy returned 
for spring semester, she and Suzanna 
presented their collection of signa-
tures 
the "groundswell" they need-
ed 
to an excited Bitsie Clark. Her 
hefty political clout paid off. Faster 
. than they had believed possible, con-
sidering the original resistance from 
< 
City Hall, their measure jumped 
through the requisite hurdles and 
committees with Clark's enthusiastic 
and seasoned hand behind it. On 
February 21, 2005, more than a year 
after Phil Horowitz's funeral, Romy 
and Suzanna sat in the Board cham-
ber itself for a prelinunary approval 
hearing 
before 
the 
Municipal 
Services Committee. 

Under the hall's sweeping ceilings, 
they waited as a bustling crowd of 
tniddle-aged ladies gathered towards 
the rear of the Aldermanic Chamber. 
Suzanna 
flitted 
about, 
cheeks 
flushed, chatting with friends and 
strangers who had all come to speak 
in support of her proposal. Bitsie 
Clark, raving about the positive feed-
back from other aldermen, looked 
impressed by the turn-out. 
Romy 
kept a hand on Suzanna's shoulder as 
they rehearsed her lines, encouraging 
her to enunciate so the board could 
hear her touching tribute through 
her 
thick 
Hungarian 
accent. 
Suzanna's wiry husband, a Yale sci-
entist, smiled as he watched. Even 
Hilda Horowitz had snuck in "incog-
nito," to witness the realization of 
her friend's obsession. 

One woman after another rose to 
speak on behalf of the Horowitz 
brothers. A 
long-titne employee 
commended the brothers for a 
strong tradition of women's employ-
ment, another lauded their kind-
ness to animals, another, nearly in 
• 
tears, told the committee she had· 
bought the fabric for her wedding 
chuppah at the store. Suzanna and 
Romy spoke last. 
Visibly moved, 
Alderwoman 
Rose 
Ferraro 
Santana, the chairperson of the 
Committee, effusively thanked the 
well-wishers. 
month later, Bitsie Clark's 
proposal is number 12 on the 
docket. Stuffed among other 
municipal 
suppliants, the 
small 
Horowitz 
contingency 
Romy, 
Suzanna, Art and Hilda Horowitz 
and -friends 
is clumped together, 
eagerly awaiting their item. Romy 
whispers to Suzanna, "This is it." A 
nervous Suzanna hugs her. 
Four 
aldermen besides Clark speak in 
favor of the measure, and when Carl 
Goldfield, Ward 29, concludes with, 
"This shirt, this tie, this belt: all from 
Horowitz Bros.!" he takes his seat to 
a roar of applause. 

Waiting for silence, President Jorge 
Perez asks for a vote: "All in favor?" 

n April 29 at 5:30 p.m., a 
small sign will be unveiled, 
and a crowd of well-wish-
ers including Mayor John D. Stefano 
and Congresswoman Rosa DeLaura, 
will see Horowitz Brothers Corner's 
inauguration. With a chorus of ayes 
that night in March, the Board of 
Aldermen made Suzanna's dream a 
rea~tj. The sign will be at the head 
of a long list of names that line 
Chapel Street: not only Stephen Papa 
and Elsie Cofield, but Evelyn Schatz, 
a community activist; Sidney and 
Libby Glucksman, Holocaust sur-
vivors and long-time owners of 
Sidney's Tailoring; and the Reverend 
Curtis Cofield III, Elsie's husband. 
Chapel Street has a particularly high 
concentration of signs 
but signs 
can · be found all over New Haven. 
They weave a web of names and his-
tory around the cars and pedestrians. 
No map or comprehensive list of 
signs exists, and most likely no one 
knows for sure how many there are. 
But for the communities -and individ-
uals that the signs honor, they are 
badges of New Haven's best faces .. 
the citizens who believe in the city. 
While New Raven's past recedes and 
new faces change the city, the street 
signs will stand above our heads, a 
gentle reminder of the people who 
ca.re for New Haven, and the people 
who care about them. This is New 
Haven's Hall of Fame, and the 
Horowitz Brothers Corner sign will 
mark not just the brothers' place, but 
Suzanna's. 
· 
Sarah Laskow, a j unior in Davenport 
. . 
College, is a Senior Editor of TNJ.


**Betsy Theobald Richards**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 21**

etsy 
eo . 
c 
Program Officer, Ford Foundation 
Bet.~ Theobald Richards i<~ an experienced arts admini:.1rator. strategic planner. tbe~ter artist and Native arts advocate. An 
enrolled member ortbe Cherok:e~ Natio.n of OklabQnul, she is the first Native American to serve as a Program Officer at the 
Ford Foundation. She currently works in the Mt:dia. Arts and Culture Unit ai the fuundation and oversees a portfolio on 
Indigenous Knowledge and Expressive Culture in the United States, Previously. Betsy ""aS Director of Public Programs for 
the Mashantucket Pequot Museum and Research Center in Connecticut, the largest tribal museum and library in the O.S. She 
oversaw the planning. development and in1plementation ofalf interpretive, educational and lll'ili.-tic programs presented to the 
public. For the past twelve years she bas also worked as a dramaturg and director. developing scripts by Native American 
writers and bas su~fully brokered artistic connections between Native artists, mainstream organizations and other 
ethnic/racial groups. Sbe oversaw Theater from the Four Directions': a collaboration between the Pequot Museum and 
Trinity Repertory C()tnpany that has produced festivals, symposia and two full productions. Bdsy earned a Master of fine 
Arts degree in Theater Administration at the Yale Univasity School of Drama, and has 
on Native American artS 
and culture in sever,IJ antlwlogies and journal ·. She formerly served on the Board of the CoonectiCQt Council on Arts in 
Education and as Vice Chair of the Sec.ond Circle Board o f Atlatl Native Arts Service Organization. 
Also sponst>rul by }ale Grovp for Jk Stl!ldy ~f N~ 
.AAwi«J. .Asso&ialiu11 of Natire A.mmrmu at Yak, 
Nmm Ameri«Ut Yale AI/II/1Ti. aNI Notit-, A.lntriam CPltllnU UIThr 



**Title:  [No Title]**
**Author: [No Author]**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•• ' 
:: .. : 
-:~ 
:~: 
.. 
... 
., 
. 
~-. 
' 
.).: 
,. 
"' ' 
:~-
:~ 
' ' 
.<· 
• 
. ., 
~~w 
;. ... ·. 


**Page number(s): 23**

~~:~· 
;:: -·- -


**Page number(s): 24**




**Beneath the Sterling Library Stacks**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Beneath the Sterling Library stacks, shielded from students and sunlight, lies the library's Preservation department. In this subterranean labyrinth of antiquated tomes, one expects to find the Seven Dwarves digging for diamonds. Instead, one finds people of regular proportions who seem not to suffer from lack of sunlight although Betsy Haugh, the administrative assistant, jokes, "When I first came to work here, I thought I would need to leave a trail of crumbs to find my way around."

This maze is one of Yale's three interdependent departments of preservation divided between Sterling Memorial Library (SML), the British Art Center (BAC) and the Yale University Art Gallery (YUAG). They care for over 11 million books and 437,000 works of art, some of which date to several thousand years BCE. Time may heal all human wounds, but all art suffers wounds over time. Preserving these treasures is a Herculean task carried out by mortals. Seldom seen by students, conservators spend their days performing acts of magic to prevent the trove from decaying into dust.


Roberta Pilette, a willowy woman who goes by Bobbie, is the head of Sterling's Preservation department. She explains cheerfully that her particular department cares for all of the university's books, maps and manuscripts, including the material in Manuscripts and Archives, the Beinecke, the Medical Library and the Divinity School. At thirty years old, the department is one of the oldest in the United States.
At the end of a narrow hallway lined with bookshelves, the staff of the Reformatr ing and Media Preservation (RaMP) unit handles photographs, historical sound recordings, film, slides and books. Preservation Librarian David Walls presides over scores of plastic boxes filled with books that have just returned from adventures in de-acidification. Older Western books and contemporary ones from developing countries, he explains, are printed on acidic paper that swiftly disintegrates. The books in the plastic bins are those that have returned from being soaked in magnesium carbonate, which neutralizes acid and extends the life of the book. Walls also show off hardbound photocopies of older, illustrated books, which look and wear better than the originals.
Long-suffering books sit on a "triage cart," waiting to be reviewed. Very few will actually be discarded, and only after they have been preserved in other formats.


More fortunate flyleaves find themselves down the hall in Collections Care, a unit that handles basic repairs and bindings. Tara Kennedy, an outgoing, bespectacled redhead wearing a bright blue-and-green checked apron, demonstrates her handiwork. She has recently re-backed the spine of The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents, and covered the green-and-orange-lettered binding of Gene Stratton Porter's Freckles with protective polyethylene film.
This film, Kennedy explains, helps to preserve the covers of books whose leather bindings have deteriorated to a mess she calls "red rot."


The third department is the most obscure, tucked away on the second mezzanine of the first floor of the stacks. A sign points the way to "Conservation," but deceptively shows a man working at a printing press. The Conservation unit does not print books, but it does work vintage machinery and many books older than Gutenberg's invention. While RaMP programs at the University of Delaware's Winterthur School and the University of Texas at Austin, serve as training grounds for Yale and other top research libraries.
Chief Conservator Gisela Noack and her assistant Lesley Santora hunch over a 15th-century book with metal clasps whose cover has split in half. The two fill the split with resin and plan to tone it to match the wood. Noack, an elegant woman sporting a burgundy blazer, marbled scarf and short auburn hair, uses her chemistry training to salvage the most delicate cases of decay. The Conservation staff spends their days filling in missing parts of maps with similarly colored old paper and using watercolors to touch up parts of these maps. They make boxes and bindings out of the rolls of buckram that drape down one wall, and line all kinds of paper with Japanese tissue to add strength.
Noack's most recent project is a series of small drawings by George Catlin, which were pasted on a larger sheet of paper with glue made from bone. This glue has discolored the drawings, but she uses protease to dissolve the glue fibers and remove the stain. A moldy book sits under the "fume hood," anticipating cleansing with a suction tool. Discolored maps sit in tubs of de-ionized, filtered water that will remove degradation products, thus restoring the maps' original color (impure water that contains iron will cause "foxing," or red spotting). And of course, Noack points out, there are "many little things you can do with a hair dryer."
But mistakes have been made. "The most horrifying [mistake] that I experienced," Noack remembers, concerned a "late 19th century imprint with purple initials. The person put it in de-acidification solution, and there was pink running down!" Luckily, since all conservators work on the "reversibility principle," even this mistake could be repaired by applying a




**Preservation: A Conversation with Conservators**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
' . 
' z. 
' 
auses zn 
' • 
an arres -zn 
0 
er o 
a 
·, 
zn 
rune 
zsera 
) 
'\' 
.. . 
,, 
canvas zn 
different chemical. 
Preservation is an exact science, and 
its . purveyors _have learned from their 
predecessors. Library and archive 
·preservation, explains Pilehe, devel-
oped as an 'extension of art preserva-
tion. When her colleagues began 
exploring the field thirty years ago, she 
. 
' ' 
. 28 
says, they asked themselves, "What do 
we take as a model from the museum 
world, and how do we adapt that for 
, ':; . 
library conservation?_" 
One such 
model is the conservation lab of the· 
BAC. 'The 
small, 
three-chamber 
department on the art museum's third 
floor abounds in equipment similar to 
• • 
that of the library's conservation lab. 
The BAG employs. Theresa Fairbanks 
Harris as chief · conservator and 
Heather Hendry as assistant conserva-
tor, both of whom specialize in treat-
ing works of art on paper, including 
prints, drawings, watercolors and pho-
tographs. Harris and Hendry handle 
these holdings, while Mark Aronson, 
chief conservator for YUAG, con-
serves the BAC's paintings part-tirne. 
Additional part-tirne contract conser-
vators tend to objects, painted minia-
tures and sculpture. 
While the book department learned 
from the example of the museum 
world, Harris acquired her skills as a 
Yale 
undergraduate working 
for 
Noack in the then-new book lab. 
Theresa has a warm, round face and 
salf-and-pepper hair tied back in a low 
ponytail accented with a big black 
bow. She is fascinated by the mechan-
ics of books, and points excitedly to 
several kinds of paper moulds whose 
weaves and .raised wire symbols pro-
duce different watermarks. The tex-
tures and watermarks these moulds 
yield, she explains, can be used to date 
and brand a piece of paper. 
Today, both Harris and Aronson 
teach Yale courses on art conserva-
tion. Harris's passion for pedagogy is 
evinced in the many labels stuck 
around her lab, which explain the pur-
pose of different paper-related a.rti.., 
facts. A paper conservator must know 
the history of papermalcing in great . 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Preservation: A Conversation with Conservators (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

• ' 
 . . . 
. . 
'• . . 
·. . . . ... 
~ . ' . . 
~ . 
t .... 
, . 
"~ 
'·:. . 
· .. · 
··-~: ..... , 
.. 
'i 
"' 
¥ 
., 
.... 
•• 
_,. 
-
..•... 
-~ 
. ' ..... 
. ·,· 
··=-·-~--
,. ... 
' . . . . . . . . 
•' 
' ... --~ 
.. . . . 
.• 
·-
. - • 
detail .. A slightly threatening wasp's 
nest hangs above Harris's workspace 
'with a sign announcing, "PAPER 
WASP NEST INSPIRED SEARCH 
FOR · OTHER PAPER-MAKING 
FIBERS." Harris explains that wasp's 
nests made of chewed-up wood 
prompted people to seek out sources 
of paper stronger and more durable 
than rags. Ironically, 19th-century 
wood-pulp paper is weaker than 15th-
century rag paper, and, for this reason, 
it often demands more of a conserva-
tor's attention than older paper. 
Before 1777, Harris explains, paper 
did not . .-.' u~dergo chemical bleaching. 
Instead, .rags used for papermaking 
were bleached by sunlight to a soft-
white. Now, bleaching is . the most 
controversial practice of paper con-
servators, since over-emphasizing 
whiteness in paper tone violates the 
integrity of the object. For older 
works of art on paper, a crisp, clean 
look would deny the paper its tirue-
earned warmth of tonality and signs 
of age. 
She believes that both students and 
scholars can benefit from irmnersing 
themselves in her field. "Art historians 
shouldn't be writing about art if-they 
don't know how it's made," she says 
forcefully. Unlike the materials used 
for a literary work, the materials used 
for art are integral to scholarly inter-
pretation. While some literary scholars 
do draw on the knowledge of book 
conservators, such as students of 
material literary culture or the history 
of book ownership, art historians 
more frequently draw on the knowl-
edge of art conservators. And art con-
servators often pursue their own 
. . •:-
. . . . ;_. . .. , .. 
.;,.,_ ·. ,. 
the older paper. A conservator like her-
self, therefore, should take care not to 
remove the dirt on a Whistler print, 
because its· presence may be intentional. 
Because honoring the attist's intent 
is the essence of the art conservator's 
task, the hand of the conservator 
should be invisible. This intent often 
brings conservators into conflict with 
private art owners, who may be 
unaware of the original intent or situ-
ply prefer a cleaner look. ''People 
always want magical things out of 
conservators. . . [But] you don't want 
it to look magically conserved, you 
want it to look cared for," Harris care-
fully explains. 
. . scholarship as well. 
As an example, she offers two 
copies of the same··nurer print of 
Mary Magdalene. One appears lifeless 
and flat because a previous conserva-
tor was ignorant of or insensitive to 
the rightful texture of a print. The 
other copy of the print appears "like 
low-relief sculpture," elegantly tex-
tured and defined. 
Harris proudly 
describes how she locally bleached 
disfiguring stains and washed the print 
in water to remove the bleach and 
gently clean the paper. She then drew 
A conservator must also consider 
how an individual a r tist would have 
wanted his or her artwork to appear. 
Harris gives the example of Jarnes 
McNeil Whistler, who haunted old 
bookshops and bought blank mdsheets 
on which to print his etc · 
because 
he liked the tone, color and texture of 
April2005 
~- . 
~ • 
1 
__ , 
.' 
~ 
~-
·, '·.: 
.~· !;,-
.. . . . . . 
-·~ 
new corners with watercolors and 
\ 
pasted these in. Like the work of the 
book conservators, all of Harris's 
efforts are reversible. 
Paper conservation tends not to be 
. controversial, Harris says matter-of-
factly. "Paper is not so sensational 
-:-
--:-_ ·- . •.· 
-:-.-:-:-:-··· .. 
Photos by Emily Kopley 
because the treatments are often sub-
tle and the work is generally not hung 
up permanently on the wall because it 
will fade with exposure to light. In 
contrast, leaning paintings and sculp-
tures may dramatically alter their 
appearance, and this elicits controver-
sy. The paper conservation lab of· the 
BAC, with its neat, modest space: 
reflects Harris's calm and straightfor-
ward guidance and the equanit nity and 
general lack of controversy that 
attend 
the 
practice 
of 
paper 
conser vatton. 
Cmrtpared to the BACs facility, the 
painting conservation lab of YUAG is 
a Willy Wonka-scale rnagic-factory. It 
is overseen by Senior Conservator 
Patricia Garland and by the alert and 
idiosyncratic Aronson, whose gentle, 
longish face is often offset by a black 
cowboy hat. One might say he is a 
conservation cowboy. While in col-
29 
I


**Painting Conservation: A Controversial Art**
**Page number(s): 30**

eveloped an interest in both 
science and art, pursued these inter-
ests at Winterthur, and has worked as 
a conservator at Yale for ten years. 
Or, as one might have said a centu-
ry ago, he works as a "resto.rer." The 
controversial nature of painting con-
servation comes out in the politically 
correct distinction between "conser-
vator" and "restorer": Before the 
field was professionalized in the late 
19th century, self-labeled "restorers" 
often tried to ·improve a painting's 
artistry or update it by painting 
directly over large swaths of a work 
rather than subtly and deliberately 
altering damaged bits. These restor-
ers gave the job a bad reputation, so 
now many professional restorers 
prefer the term "conservator.'·' In 
fact, a conservator does more than 
"restore" -that is, perform physical, 
hands 
on works to a painting. A 
conservator must deal with issues 
including heating, storage, travel 
conditions, light levels and humidity. 
Aronson shrugs from under his 
black cowboy hat. "Of course, I 
don't care 
restorer, conservator 
... at a party, suppose I'm asked what 
I do for a living? Glue." 
Naturally, Aronson does much 
30 
more than glue. At the moment he's 
putting 
together 
an 
exhibition 
explaining the controversy surround-
ing painting and conservation tech-
niques over the past three hundred 
years. The exhibition will focus on a 
specific painting by Benjamin West, 
created within what Aronson calls "a 
sphere of controversy and intrigue." 
Around 179 5, he explains, a manu-
script circulated through London 
detailing the technique of Italian 
masters such as Titian and Corregio. 
This pamphlet turned out to be a 
fake, but West took it seriously and 
followed its technical instructions. 
As one might imagine, the resulting 
. painting was a disaster and West was 
lampooned in the British press for 
his gullibility. A decade later, howev-
er, West painted the same scene 
again, this time with traditional 
methods, to wide acclaim. The 
YUAG owns the new version, while 
the poorly executed painting remains 
in private hands. Aronson's exhibi-
tion would bring the two versions of 
the scene together and demonstrate 
the visual effects of different paint-
ing techniques, how these techniques 
stand up over time and how conser- · 
vation can satisfy the maintenance 
demands of the respective methods. 
The painting conservation lab 
itself, temporarily relocated from its 
YUAG space due to construction, 
occupies a single large room where 
canvases from many periods sit 
propped on easels as if conversing 
with one another. Imposing metal 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Emily Kopley**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. . 
• 
vacuum tubes twist down from the 
ceiling. "Oh, elephant trunks," says 
Anya Shutov, a pretty, puckish intern 
in her last year of graduate study at 
Winterthur, describing the ventila-
tion system which sucks up toxic 
gases from solvents. The painting lab 
hosts the same plethora of chemistry 
equipment as the other conservation 
labs, but everything here is on a larg-
er scale 
hence the overwhelming 
trunk-vacuums. 

Shutov shows off the canvases 
undergoing treatment. 
She points 
out paintings that Aronson has been 
cosmetically altering by cleaning and 
inpainting 
carefully painting over 
the canvas to even out hue or miss-
ing detail. Three rosy, fleshy women 
and an angel need to be cleaned. So 
does the vast, cloudy sky overlooking 
British gentlemen on a foxhunt. 

Next, Shutov pauses in front of her 
own biggest project, an arresting 
painting of a dark, thin brunette star-
ing miserably out of a canvas in mis-
erable shape. Over the course of her 
internship Shutov has worked to 
improve the condition of the painting, 
if not the expression of the girl. This 
is a portrait of Artemesia, who has 
reason to look so sad: She's just eaten 
a potion that includes the ashes of her 
recently deceased husband, out of her 
profound love for hirn. The artist is an 
unknown 17th-century Florentine. 

Using UV light and X-rays, Shutov 
can see where the painting has been 
previously restored and where white 
lead paint has been used. She can also 
see where the canvas has been 
stretched and where the originally rec-· 
tangular painting sacrificed its corners 
for an octagonal frame. A conservator 
before Shutov attached new corners. 
Shutov stripped the paint from these 
areas to reveal an outrageously clash-
ing leopard-print pattern, which she 
has decided to keep because "that's 
doing less, not more" 
a principle all 
conservators keep in tnind. Because 
the watercolors that previous conser-


--- Page 32 ---

vators used on Artemesia have faded, 
Shutov uses more colorfast but equal-
ly removable polyvinyl-acetate paints 
to inpaint. At every stage of her work 
the intern docuinents her progress 
with digital photos to ease and inform 
the job of future conservators. 

Eventually this painting will join the 
permanent collection. 

In the case of the painting of 
Artemesia, conservators .cannot con-
sult with the artist to confirm his 
original intent. But with contempo-
rary art they can; and thus, some 
controversy may be averted. For 
example, Anselm Kiefer, a - living 
artist, paints with lead that quickly 
turns to powder, and incorporates 
fern leaves that turn brown and fall 
off as well as sunflower seeds that 
inevitably scatter on the gallery's 
floors. A conservator who is unsure 
whether this predictable deteriora-
tion is part of Kiefer's intended 
effect may contact and consult with 
hirn about his wishes. Aronson's own 
experience 
with 
living 
artists 
includes 
tackling a 
frame 
that 
became infested by tern1ites. The 
conservator called the painter to 
deterrnine if the frame was special 
and should ~us be repaired. Her 
response was immediate: "Get rid of 
the frame and the painting! Send it 
back to me and I'll give you a better 
one!" Aronson ended up replacing 
the frame, and the YUAG curator is 
still deliberating whether or not t.o 
exchang the painting. 

Most of Yale's paintings, however, 
are .the legacies of artists no longer 
alive, and in conserving these paint-
ings, Aronson and his staff must 
make judicious choices about the 
artists' intents. Their decisions, and 
those of their colleagues around the 
world, can result in intense disagree-
ment, such as the feud that recently 
resulted 
from 
the 
cleaning of 
Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceilitig. 

While painting conservation may 
be the most controversial of preser-
vation fields, those 'who work in it 
receive no more glory than Noack or 
Harris in book restoration. In fact, -
what is striking and cheering about 
the staff of Yale's book and art 
preservation departments is that they 
all labor out of their love and respect 
for the artwork's integrity and for the 
artists' intents. They do not often 
curate flashy shows; they do not 
enjoy the renown of star professors 
who 
draw 
on 
preservers' 
research, nor do they rise to the fame 
of the writers and artists whose 
works they preserve. Rather, the 
caretakers of Yale's library holdings 
and paintings act behind the scenes 
to mend and maintain these treasures 
as valuable, if not as permanent, as 
the seven Dwarves' diamonds. For 
their efforts the caretakers reap the 
satisfaction of ensuring that these 
artifacts will outlive them and con-
tinue to edify and inspire future 
inheritors of the world's culture. 

Emi!J K.opley, a junior in Branford, 
zs an associate editor of TNJ. 


**Title: Youth Rights Media**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
•
'
. ' •
• '
.
.. ~.
. •
. '
ont:ea!ed behin?. consrete
buzzing with fluorescent light. Walk
siding and tinted windows, . down the narrow hallway past several

number 924 is one of many ' 'small offices and you'll fmd the door-
garage-like structures on
way to the main office, also known as
Grand Avenue. It might be over-
the "stricdy business" room. (This dis-
looked entirely if not for its contradic-
tinguishes it from the lounge next
tory markings: black graffiti brands
the side of the building a "ghetto" but
the red and white letters stenciled op.
the front door read, "oasis."

Somewhere between ghetto and
oasis lies Youth Rights Media
,
a nonprofit advocacy group that mar-
(
zs z
a
Z'!f · r()fJ
as· een
''
shals New Haven teens to defend
their rights and the rights of others
thr<?ugh the innovative use of public
service announcements (PSAs). Laura
McCargar, the group's executive direc-
tor, along with program coordinators
Stephen Taylor and Hiram Rivera,
works year-round with New Haven
teenagers to turn their real-life experi-
ences into life-changing activism.
But the chang~s aren't only public.
Within the walls of Youth Rights
Media exists another support struc-
ture: one of supervision, safety and
respect. For kids abandoned by the
system, Youth Rights Media provides
a safeguard, a structure and a home.
34
ine hundred and twenty-four
Grand Avenue is a maze of
sparsely furnished rooms

. Guevara stand guard over the organi-
zation's office. "Hasta Ia victoria siem-
pre/' they proclaitn: "always until vic-
tory."

Against this backdrop of legendary
insurgents I first meet Laura. Always
rushing despite her high-heeled boots,
she greets me warmly but wastes no
tirne with pleasantries. Today is the
first day of the new Media Lab ses-
sion, she explains. Media Lab is one of
the many divisions of Youth Rights
Media, intended to introduce the teens
to video equipment and production
techniques. The teens involved with
the Lab will produce two
·
-sec-
ond PSAs with messages of their
choice. When the 61 rns are finished,
there will be a ~creening 1:?-eld fqr fam-
ily and friends at a Media Showcase
event before the tapes 'are sent to ' ' . .
CTv, Connecticut's public access net-
work. Most of the kids I meet are here
for the first time. They've been
recruited from local high schools,
referred by juvenile care officers or
brought along by friends who partici-
pate in the program.

"We'll be getting started soon, so
make yourself at home, you know,
introduce yourself to everyone."
Laura's voice acquires a serious over-
tone as she examines me with cool
blue eyes. "The kids like to know
who's in the space."

She leaves the room and I'm stand-
ing helplessly, clinging to the table and
unsure of how to proceed. I smile hes-
itandy at two girls sitting at a table ..
They smile back and introduce them-
selves as sisters, Trenna and Ashley .
Trenna has been part of YRM since its
inception and now works as an aide to
Laura and a mentor for new teens. Her
-


---

younger" sister Ashley is a newcomer.
We barely make it through introduc-
tions before Karl, another youth mod-
erator and YRM veteran, lopes by in
search of wayward teens. He pauses to
acknowledge Steve, the media coordi-
nator, staring bemusedly at a cluster of
three computer screens, all of which
feature different iterations of Karl's
face. "Karl's got his picture on every
computer in here!" Steve announces
. 1
"Wh
th
to no one m parttcn ar.
o au or-
. d thi -;>"
lZe
s.

Karl stnirks and ignores hin1, contin-
uing his search for unaccounted-for
teenagers. "Where are the happy
campers?"
he yells indignandy.
"Come on!"

Eventua11y the "happy campers" are
corralled into a large ,room where
most of the planning takes place. The
room's perirneter displays tituelines,
schedules, movie ideas and lists of
rules, but the focal point is a life-sized
oudine of a body tacked to the far
wall. The body is tattooed with hand-
written words, feelings, dos and ·
don'ts. Outside its lines are "drugs,"
"guns," "racism," and their coro11aries,
while inside are "friendship," "hon-
esty," "self-respect," and other posi-
tive adjectives. The boundaries of the
body are one line of defense against
the world's ugliness, and the density of
words on both sides shows how seri-
ous the battle is.

The only seating in the room con-
sists of twenty wheeled office chairs
which the kids use as bumper cars to
convert the space into a roller rink,
launching themselves like pinballs
around the room as Laura attempts to
introduce herself and the program.
Blessed with the ability to cornmand
order, Laura preet npts chaos by asking
the group what kinds of issues they
think a PSA should involve. Calls
emerge from a rapt crowd: "youth
II
unpnsontnent,
• 1
gun
vto ence,
April2005
"racial profiling." She treats them like
adults and challenges them to debates:
"Why is it natural for you to be told
that you fit the picture of a qjtninal?"
she asks pointedly. "Why is it natural
that altnost everyone in this room has
been locked up?"

RM began in 2002 during
Laura's senior year at Yale.
With two friends at Yale Law
School, she applied for a grant from
the Yale Entrepreneurial Society to
itnplement a youth advocacy project.
They won the grant, and before she
knew it, Laura had agreed to be the
organization's director.

She relates in detail the difficulties
of trying to convince people of
YRM's legiritnacy ("We had one roo~
and no phone, and no insurance. I
don't know how to get insurance!"), of
Photo by Casey Miner
finding sqmeone to help with the
technical aspects of the group ("I
know nothing about media, it's rnirac-
ulous that Steve ever picked up the
phone"), of maneuvering the treach-
erous maze of red tape that chokes
even the most well-intentioned organ-
izations ("What do I know about writ-
ing contracts?
How do you run a
board meeting?"), and the ultixmate
gratification of doing what she loves,
which is working with the kids ("You
get your ass pummeled''). Even now
she seems deeply affected by her
experiences. "It was really lonely," she
reflects quietly. "You're learning so
much, so much. But you have to give
so much of yonrseJ-f away."

She stresses that complete openness
is vital to face the kinds of issues the
kids encounter on a daily basis. She
gives the exa111ple of an incident in a
train station where an older man



jl
approached the group and asked her,
point blank, if she liked working with
little black children. The kids leapt to
her defense, she says, but that didn't
make the situation easier. "Doing this
kind of work, there's no way to avoid
those conversations. Part of the
responsibility of anyone who's white
and doing this work is to have these
conversations with the kids, to talk it
out." The sassy combination of
Laura's erudite vocabulary and street
smarts complement her core strength.
"Race has never been something that
I've felt apologetic about, because I
think to be apologetic is to feel guilty,
and then the work is to clear your per-
sonal guilt, and if the work is to clear
your personal guilt, you're not her~ for
the right reasons. Do I carry privilege
because of race, because of my Yale
education? Absolutely. But am I going
to
use
it
make
changes?
Absolutely."

And she has. YRM's most successful
project to date is a · 26-tninute docu-
mentary about
the
Connecticut
Juvenile Training School (CJTS).
Marketed as a juvenile rehabilitation
facility, the school resembled a prison
more than a center of learning.
Allegations of abuse and other · scan-
dals have plagued the school, and
YRM's documentary confirmed many
people's worst fears by exposing that
the school did not educate teens as it
promised, and that guards abused
teens without provocation. After visit-
ing the center, many of YRM's teens
were adamant that it be permanently
closed. With their mission decided,
they took their documentary on the
road. The film's statewide tour, along
with the activism of other advocacy
groups, has prompted Governor Jodi
Rell to appoint a task force to review
CJTS and to investigate the possibility
of its repetitive closure.

In addition to the short PSAs the
teens are currendy filming, YRM con-
tinue[ to work on longer docntnen-
tades ·about drug sentencing dispari-
36
ties and the harmful effects of unjus-
tified school suspensions on at-risk
youth. The organization actively
recruits new members and pushes
aggressively to get the teens' work
seen by policy-makers. Anonymous
teens have become activists whose
work has . a statewide impact. Each
new project emboldens them, and
makes the possibility of change more
immediate and real.
early half the teens enrolled
in the program have spent
rirne in the custody of the
Connecticut Department of Children
and Fami1ies, dealt extensively with
the court system or lived in group
homes. They joke about 'verbal and
phys~cal abuse tritely, tossing out tales
of near-death experiences as casually
as
results
of
last
night's
Knicks game.

The irony is that the abusive realities
of their lives are too severe for public
access. One afternoon when Hiram,
Sara, Marcus and I are writing lines for
a scene in which two parents verbally
abuse their daughter, Sara demands to
know why she can't use the word
"slut." "It's TV, you can't curse,"
replies Hiram, exasperated-he has
already reminded the kids of this lim-
itation several titnes.

Hiram is YRM's newest staff mem-
ber: focused, dedicated and an exam-
ple of ·what class clowns grow up to
be. But the grin that normally lights
his face has faded as he listens to the
teens float plot ideas that draw on
their own experiences with their par-
ents. Despite his practical admonition
that, "In real life, there are no happy
endings, and that's the message you
gotta put out there," Hirant winces
when Sara shrugs and defends her
word choice, "That's what my mom
said to me."

Later, Tim voices sitnilar frustrations
about
narrative
restrictions
imposed on his PSA. He stares benev-
olently into the camera, taking voice
of an uncanny Ward Cleaver. "No
dad's like, 'Hello son, how was your
day at school? Would you mind taking
out the trash?"' He grins and shakes
his head. "Naw man, they're like, 'If
you don't take that trash outside I'm
gonna whoop your ass so hard you
wish you'd never been born."' No one
disagrees, but rules are rules, and the
fuming of
PSAs proceeds
curse-free.
side from problems with lan-
guage, the main production
dilemma is "terrible acting,"
the blanket term Steve and Hiram
apply to more or ·less ever
· g that
transpires in front of the camera.
Which is why at 5:30 one afternoon,
only four sessions before the Media
Showcase, we fmd ourselves sitting in .
the lounge with a rotating crew of 12
teens, trying unsuccessfully to shoot
J
the first ten seconds of a PSA about
domestic abuse. The premise of the
intra is that the mother Jamie admon-
ishes the father Tim, to discipline their
teenage son Lyonel. Jamie, a feisty 15-
year-old who barely reaches five feet,
is impeccably dressed in a clingy,
sleeveless white shirt and tight blue
jeans. As the crew sets up the video
equipment she carefully positions her-
self in her chair, winks coyly at the
camera and, stniling flirtatiously,
launches Take one.

"Your son has not been goin' to
school," accuses Jarnie, beginning to
count on her fingers. "He's always
cotnin' around here with an his little
friends, and they be smokin', and
drinkin' and bringing drugs into the
house, and I will not have drugs in this
house, you understand me? And fur-
thermore your son is not listening to
me; he is being very disrespectful to
me, and you're gonna have to do
something about it because I will not
be treated that way in this house!"

She's still calling out crimes in a glee-
ful in1itation of her own mother when
Hiratn yells "Cut!" He's laughing too



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Casey Miner**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
hard to look as severe as he'd 
like. Jamie looks around. 
"What?" 
.. 
·. 
Take tw~: Jamie makes it : ;.< : : 
i' . 
_ ; 
.. _ , 
• 
· 
· . 
through one sentence and ·· _·• :: •· · 
• i' • ,: '_·' · ·· ·•' .· · · ,: ·· •'. 
· • ... ·_· • · 
·.-.· 
. 
collapses into giggles. Take 
_ 
three: Jamie manages to get •- ··• · · ·•. _. _· ._ · · · 
all three lines out, Tim stares . 
at her blankly. Abraham •• •• _: 
' • 
·. ,·, •' '· 
'• 
drops the sound boom into 
.. , '·· 
the shot. Take four: Jamie 
accuses Tim of trying to 
make her laugh. Take five: 
Jamie nails it, but Tim only . < ,· •. 
'_: .· · . · ' 
': ;< 
: ! • : 
• • • • : 
., 
. . . 
tnanages to announce, "Yo, 
when. that boy get home-" 
before falling out of his 
chair. Take six: Hiram attacks 
Tim with the football. 


In the end, there is an hour -• .-
of footage and one usable 
minute. 

It will 
take 
a 
Herculean feat of editing to 
make the PSA suitable for 
television, but the final prod-
uct is stunning in its simplicity. On the 
night of the Media Showcase, a room-
ful of parents and friends falls silent 
as Jamie lists her son's offenses and 
Tim threatens to teach hirn a lesson 
"like my father taught me." _ While -
waiting for his son to arrive home, 
Tim flashes back to his own child-
hood memories of abuse, and when 
Lyonel walks in, he chooses not to hit 
him. "Don't make the same choices 
your parents made," cautions the 
voiceover. "Break the chain of abuse." 

When the lights buzz back on, Sara 
rises to read her speech. Her voice 
rings clearly through a silent room. 
"This topic is important to me 
because I think that many of our 
youth are dea1ing with matters just like 
this. I was also verbally abused 
throughout my life. I an1 now 16 
years-old, and the abuse in my fami1y 
got to the point that I had to be taken 
out of the house. 

"I know that I made a lot of bad 
decisions that reflected on the abuse I 
got at home. Maybe if my parents did-
April2005 
n't make me feel like I had nothing to 
live for then maybe my self-esteem 
wouldn't be so low. I also learned not 
to get attached to people because I 
feel that they will verbally abuse me, 
or worse. But I can't keep speaking on 
my past. Now that I look at this audi-
ence of people I wish that my mother 
who abused me to the point where she 
tried to kill me could be here. That's 
why I want to help youth, so they 
won't 
go 
through 
what 
I 
went through." 

Thunderous applause ruptures the 
stunned silence as a grinning Sara 
walks back to her seat. It's Marcus' 
turn now. He walks to the podium, his 
clothes hanging on his lanky frame. 
"I didn't write anything," he says hur-
riedly. "This is from the heart. Coming 
here was, like, a big step for me, and 
you know, I look up to everybody." He 
pauses and studies the podium. 
"That's all I got to say." 

After the Showcase several teens 
hover around Laura, asking about the 
next project and promising faithful 
attendance. In the weeks to follow, 
their faces will not disappear, but 
become fixtures of 924 Grand 
Avenue as they turn to bigger projects: 
taking on the New Haven police 
deparunent in a student-led teach-in 
and 
the Connecticut House of 
Representatives in an effort to change 
unfair drug laws. Their oasis draws 
them in even when they are not sched-
uled; they will bring their friends and 
their friends' friends; they will ask 
Laura for help with homework and 
college applications and probation 
officers. The work will be hard: The 
world outside of the body will pene-
trate uninvited. But right now, uni-
formed in black, white and red Youth 
Rights Media tee-shirts, the teens 
resetnble the posters of Che Guevara 
that preside over the strictly business 
rootn: a gueri11a band of revolutionar-
ies. The only difference is, they are just 
getl iog started. 

Casey Miner, a senior in Pierson 
lege, is on the staff of TN]. 


**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 39**

he next titne you W:~ down 
time to recognize the deliberation and 
Wall Street, pause be'fw:een the 
craftsmanship that went into creating 
Law 
School 
an4 : i Sterling 
the windows pays tribute to the art and 
Memorial Library (SNiL). Just 
its academic patton. 

Beginning in the early 1900s, Yale . 
received several large donations that 
inspired a proliferation of campus-wide 
building 
projects. 
In 
1911, 
the 
University appointed a conunittee to 
oversee construction alongside architect 
James Gamble Rogers, who designed 
SML as well as several other Yale build-
ings. Rpgers and the committee agreed . 
that the new buildings should con-
tribute to the. Collegiate Gothic style of 
the ~am pus. ·.· Thm.tgh modeled after 
Oxford and Cambridge, Collegiate 
Gothic was 
considered · a 
stricdy 
American style that it~~itated medieval 
cathedrals 
strongholds of the educat-
ed during the Middle Ages-but echoed 
more contemporary Bauhaus, Art Deco 
and Modern architec~al styles. 

The Gothic style offered the ornate 
decoration and monumental stature that 
American colleges wanted their edifices· 
to possess. The "unity in diversity" 
mantra of Gothic architecture influ-
enced Rogers, who encouraged the 
artists and craftsmen he hired to express 
individuality and creativity in their work. 
The window handles, engravings, gar-
goyles and painted windows reflect the 
myriad moods of these at tists. Had 
another team of craftsmen ornamented 
Sterling, it would have been no less char-
acteristic of the Collegiate Gothic style, 
but no single engraving or window 
would have looked the same. The win-
dow.s are a memory of a moment lost in 
-orne. 

Rogers hired G. Owen Bonawit to 
design the windows of SML. During 
the 1920s and '30s, Bonawit was a 
skilled and well-known window painter. 
Like all of the craftsmen hired to 
embellish Rogers' brainchild, Bonawit . 
enjoyed a fajr amount <;>f artistic license. 
Occasi'ona1ly the Yale. conimihee pro-
posed specific images and plates to be 
replicated ·· in window form, but the 
University mainly offered only written 
suggestions. Bonawit' s creative freedom 
was virtually unfettered. 

Although Bonawit looked to the win-
dows of medieval cathedrals for inspira-
tion, the windows of a library serve a 
distinctly different function than the 
stained glass of a church. In a church, 
the windows hover above naves and 
apses, leu ing in just enough light to 
glimpse the other end of the church. 
More importantly, the light is elevated 
and reverential. In a ID>rary, however, 
there must be sufficient light to pern tit 
reading. S'mce this light should be at eye 
level, every turn and sn1udge of the 
brush channels the light toward a read-
er's nose. Structurally, the coarse lead 
cames that hold the glass in place don't 


Just 
before Wall Street hits York; .~gok at the 
windows that pierce s~ts heavy 
masonry fas:ade. If the day;iis bright, 
you'll s_ee.a window paintingdepicting 
the Queen of Hearts sitr ing:Qft,fl bench 
next to - a box labeled "tarts;~~;. And a 
trapezoidal plum pudding ili~~6t middle 
of a window bay. And an l!!feminate 
boy siu ing at a table, ~amp]tiJgLa stew. 

And ... a book? · 
:.j1l';.l. · 
The qgok doesn'r..,,,pt di~l!fEpicqt:ean , 
" th~h"te: . .J::i\Jt .. Jt ~~n't al~ys dit;re. A pic~ ;; 
ttit~ o( Uft:le Black s~ri,.bqjrlut~hing a 
watermelon used to be in its place, or, as 
it is officially titled according F<? the Yale 
University Library Gazette, an ·~chive of 
the library's images, "Ne~9 i: dtring a 
watermelon." 

When the . lil:i.fary was 
renovated in 1995 and the Windows 
were carefully removed to be .,.cleaned, 
Little Sambo was freed frorr;_ his glass 
and lead shackles because he was 
deemed offensive. Instead, . a happy 
book took his place near the smiling 
cook, the Queen of Hearts scarfing 
down her tarts and the other gourmand 
window paintings that line•, the SML 
staff lunch room. 

Yale's decision to remove the Sambo 
window suggests that the University 
believes people actually recog••jze the 
deliberate placement of window paint-
'· 
ings in the library. But most Y alies are 
conditioned to the catnpus' Collegiate 
Gothic style: The library is not regarded 
·as an art gallery. While library employ-
ees may notice the window paintings 
that dominate their office space, stu-
dents seldom trek up to the reading 
rooms and offices in the stacks. SML 
has 3,300 windows which took months 
to design, paint and install. Taking the




**Sterling Memorial Library's Windows: A Legacy of Art and Adaptation**
**Author: Lime Rick**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
seem heavy; but up close, distortions, 
flaws and the hammer marks that sized 
and shaped the lead are apparent. As a 
result, the painted parts of the windows 
are confmed to legal pad-sized ditnen-
sions, and the rest of the window is 
composed of clear or mildly tinted 
glass, all from 'France. The paintings are 
detailed with the "stick-work" tech-
nique;which entails outlining the image 
with a dark brown paint, staining the 
opposite side of the glass with a wash 
and fu:ing the panel to bond the paint 
to the glass. The panel is then mounted 
in lead earning with the stained part fac-
ing 
outward, 
and 
the 
window 
is installed. 
Unfortunately, lead cames are· soft 
and seep down to the bottom of the 
structure over time, deforming the glass 
by creating a concave or convex effect. 
This causes gaps between the glass and 
the cames. The result is an ineffective 
way to insulate the building, and occa-
sionally 
the windows · have 
been 
removed to hammer the lead back out 
and create flatter windows. lri the cli-
mate-controlled stacks, new rubber-
sealed glass has been installed a few 
inches from the original window. But 
the flawlessness of the factory-made 
glass is an aesthetic flaw 
it can never 
be as attractive as the original uncased 
window. 


It seems fitting that Yale possesses 
windows that predate the concept of 
climate control. Rogers is famous for 
trying to make Yale look old, and in 
SML, his "cathedral of learning," he 
created niches for statues that never 
existed and disguised the elevator 
machinery on the roof as a turreted 
French pavilion. Bonawit responded by 
crafting patina window images that 
look aged, and slicing many of his 
images with "mending lead," which 
thoughtfully avoided the most impor-
tant parts of Bonawit's paintings. 
Bonawit blended Collegiate Gothic 
with the then-trendy Art Deco style by 
reinterpreting classical images with 
modern movernent and composition. 
He designed every window that now 
separates the Periodicals room from the 
Music Ubrary, and the characters in the


room Jump, sway 
and run with new 
life across the six 
window bays. The 
poses and motions 
of the mythic fig-
ures are modern: 
October, a sinewy 
young 
fellow, 
is 
folded 
in 
half 
like an innovative 
Pilobolus 
dancer, 
peering into a bas-
ket, while April lan-
guidly skips like a 
nine-year old girl 
through a field. 
Bonawit pre-
ferred 
a 
secular 
context 
to 
eccle~iastical, fitr ing 
for a moment in 
history that saw a 
rising interest in the 
painted and stained 
glass windows of 
residences 
schools. He also 
designed the win-
dows for some of 
Yale's older residential colleges, as well 
as 
parts 
of 
Duke, 
Princeton, 
Northwestern and the University of 
Chicago. When designing the windows 
for a church, the subject matter is 
iconographic. But a library hosts a vast 
body of cultural, historical and literary 
knowledge, as a center of creativity and 
innovation. In the academic atmos-
phere of SML, apostles and the Virgin 
Mary would be uncomfortably out of 
place. Thus, the committee decided that 
the windows lining the seminar and 
reading rooms in the stacks should rep-
resent literary characters and historical 
scenes that correspond to each room's 
intended use. The windows of the 
Natural Sciences seminar room display 
a menagerie of birds, fish, reptiles and 
a dragon. The medical study room dis-
plays an apothecary, botanists and a 
doctor in a laboratory. 


But not all rooms still serve the pur-
pose they were intended to when the 
library opened in 1931. When you enter 
room 218, you see a sign on the door·-
it probably says something. like, "Do 
not eat in here," or "Please be respect-
ful of other people in the room." It's in 
Chinese and is not translated. As 
remembered by its windows~ this is the 
East Asia reading room. Korean and 
Japanese characters paint the spine of 
each book; nothing references Western 
culture except the windows. This room 
originally held the Yale Collection of 
Amedcan Literature 
(Y~AL). But 
YCAL grew too large for this modestly-
sized room so it migrated to the 
Beinecke, and the East Asia collection 
set up shop in its place. Today, a student 
scouring a Japanese magazine at the 
lonely wooden table might rest his or 
her eyes on Hiawatha's heavy brow or 
Huck Finn's smirk. A few windows 
over, Ichabod Crane clings to a bony 
horse and speeds through an orange 
autumn forest. Poor Ichabod 
his 
frightened face will never land on his 
own story, much less the language in 
THE NEW JOURNAL 



--- Page 41 ---

which it was written. 
The East Asia reading room is not an 
anomaly; other rooms have mis-
matched windows and subjects as well. 
An example of this discontinuity is 
Room 322, which used to host history 
seminars. The windows narrate the dis-
covery of America and its tumultuous 
consequences. Pizarro's bust peers 
nobly into the room; Columbus stakes 
out the West Indies; and Bostonians 
throw tea into the dark Atlantic Ocean. 
The window paintings chronicle an 
American titneline, but no American 
history books are shelved in here. 
Instead, the books are historiographies 
of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. The 
r 
Yale Babylonian Collection now lives in 
322, which houses the United States' 
largest collection of cuneiform inscrip-
tions. In their midst, a glass painting 
exalting the founding of Quinnipiac, 
Connecticut reads, "The wilderness 
shall bloom." One has to read pretty 
far into this backdrop of a boy poring 
over flaky yellowed pages to find a con- · 
nection with the Hittites. 
Down the hall from Yale's 
Babylonian Collection is the African 
Studies Room, a space that Bonawit 
could not have anticipated any more 
than he foresaw the offense caused by · 
Little Black Samba. The rooni's win-
dows are actually devoted to "trans-
portation by water," but perhaps 
"kinds of boats" would be a more fit-
ting description. The first of four win-
dows displays the trireme, a distin-
guished Greek fighting boat. Next to it, 
a two-foot wide strip of wall supports 
a framed photograph of the earth as 
seen from outer space. The next bay 
holds a painted window of the Santa 
Maria, and the next strip of wall dis-
plays 
1994 poster advertising 
"Margins to Mainstream: Lost South 
African Photographers." Then there's 
the clipper ship window. And where 
the Yale Library Gazette claims an ocean 
liner tribute should be painted on the 
glass, there is an air conditioning unit. 
The replacement is a slap in the face 
to Bonawit and Rogers. African Studies 
should not be squeezed into the 
Transportation by Water Room, and 
April2005 
•• 
Bonawit's art should not be replaced by 
an air conditioning unit. These win-
dows are art, and Bonawit devoted 
countless 
hours 
each 
image. 
Disregarding the intent and subject 
matter of the window paintings under-
tnines Rogers and Bonawit's original 
vision. Even if students don't look at 
the windows, even if the use of the 
rooms doesn't correspond to the narra-
tive of the windows, the changes belit-
tle the essence of Bonawit's art. 


Only a few windows share the fate of 
the ocean liner. The saddest window in 
the library is back in the East Asia . 
Reading Room. An image portraying 
Oliver Wendell Holmes' "Autocrat of 
the Breakfast Table" has been replaced 
by a bumpy rectangle of foggy glass 
resting awkwardly in the center of 
the window. 


Of course, windows will break, espe-
cially when they are over seventy years 
old. Anticipating this, Yale has pho-
tographed and documented every win-
dow painting. But no one specializes in 
the art of painting on glass anymore, at 
least not with Bonawit's finesse. And 
when one of his window paintings 
breaks, Yale has no option but to plop 
a plain, occasionally colored window in 
the broken window's place. In the case 
of Samba and his watermelon, the 
University tried to find someone to 
manufacture another window with a 
more appropriate subject, but amidst 
the other images, the book has the 
effect of a baby giraffe trying to walk 
on ice 
surely a misstep. 


s the centerpiece of the library, 
the great hall of SML appropri-
ately devotes its eighty windows 
to the history of Yale and New Haven. 
A student rings Yale's college bell when 
he shouldn't have, and the president of 
the University claps the delinquent's 
ears. Mittened boys gleefully clear snow 
from an Old Campus pathway. And 
then there is the window painting enti-
tled, "Five Sophomores and Freshmen 
steal eight hens from Widow Brockett's 
henhouse, pluck and cook them, and 
are caught in the act of eating them, 
1764." 


One window d~picts two men in what 
a .fourth-grader might call "pilgrim 
hats" standing on a beach, watching a 
ship sail away. This is the Phantom 
Ship, which left the dismal port city of 
New Haven in 1647 laden with goods 
and intellectuals who had the potential 
to save the failing colony. Months 
passed without news of the ship until 
one day, local citizens announced that 
the great ship could be seen on the 
horizon. Residents flocked to the 
beach, and conftrmed that this was 
indeed their ship. They held their vigil, 
watching the ship toss in the choppy 
sea until the main mast appeared to 
break off. The smaller masts followed, 
and the ship rolled over and sank into 
the mist. It was never seen again, and 
no wreckage was found. Now the phan-
tom ship lives only in New Haven leg- -
end, 
painting 
in SML. 


Installing and caring for so many win-
dows requires a great deal of titne and 
labor. Bonawit hoped the effort would 
be justified by a heightened aesthetic 
experience when studying in SML. 
Perhaps, back when the seminar rooms 
still hosted classes, the windows served 
a grander purpose. Students saw them 
every day and studied romance lan-
guages in the satne room that displays 
Moliere's La Malade Imaginaire. But over 
time, new rooms replaced the old as 
history changed the nature of the col-
lections. Now, a dwindling number of 
people climb the stacks and curl up in a 
secluded armchair with a good book 
under a muddied window depicting 
John Locke or an abacus. 


Then again, Bonawit's travails will 
always mean something 
even if only a 
· handful of students stop looking 
through the windows to look at them. 
Rogers and Bonawit wanted Y alies to 
relate to and interact with Yale's archi-
tecture. The entire school is, in that 
sense, a window-painting. 
L:me Rick, a sophomore in Morse College, is a 
Circulations and Subscriptions Manager 
oJTNJ. 


--- Page 42 ---

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Elizabeth St. Victor**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
even women, 
five 
on 
wooden 
stools, 
bright 
lights skimming off a 
shoulder, an arm, illumi-
nating an eye. Two others 
veiled in flittering shadows. Script in 
hand, I listen to the five voices quake 
with fear, undulate with memory, swell 
with grace. Forgetting the reverence 
and propriety usually commanded by 
the walls of a Yale classroom, we set-
tle on our haunches and yank woman-
hood from the script, looking to it for 
what being in fen1inine skin is about. 
Performing the Vagina Monologues 
requires visceral interaction. In a mas-
sive classroom in Street Hall, I begin 
to drown in velvet sentirnent and 
smell the hutnan musk of fen1ininity. 
Fetninine. Fe-male. Fe-Yale. Female 
at Yale. I will be honest. Prior to work-
ing on the Vagina Monologues, my 
thoughts of what it means to be a 
woman on catnpus were flitnsy con-
templations at best. My knowledge 
then was an array of random things-
you-just-know, a jumbled survival 
guide: Leave your dorm alone past ten 
o'clock at your own peril. Drinking at 
frat parties without a watchful gaggle 
of friends can be fatal. Be "one of the 
boys" in academia 
deft and definite 
in your analyses. Keep that skirt to an 
appropriate length 
yop're a Yale 
lady. Speaking of short skirts, watch 
that :reputation. (I once knew a girl 
with an "unacceptable" number of 
male friends; punishment: character 
defamation; accusers: male and fetna1e 
a1ike.) And, in the dicey dance of love, 
April2005 
there's a fme line between loving too 
little and.loving too much (see afore-
mentioned punishment.) 

With these rules in mind, I enlisted 
as a Vagina Warrior. My batde: to help 
coordinate V-week and its culminating 
event, a production of the Vagina 
ever 
zne. 
. Monologues. 

When I was 15, I remember a news 
telecaster announcing in a pritn voice, 
"Playwright Eve Ensler ·brings the 
Vagina Monologues to HBO. More to 
follow on the six o'clock news." Try as 
I might, I could not (perhaps would 
not is more honest) get that word-
"vagina" 
out of my head. My 
Haitian parents never referred to the 
region except when my rnother 
rerninded my sister ·and me to wash 
our "shooshoons" and to keep our 
legs closed so no one could see our. 
"shooshoons." The technical term and 
I weren't formally introduced until 
seventh grade, when my biology 
teacher, Mrs. Coates, threatened to 
k 
l 
II 
til 
rna e my c ass say vagtna un 
we 
stopped laughing. At that point, the 
word was a cellar 
secret but neces-
sary. So I was shocked and a little ter-
rified when I heard the word "vagina" 
used in public, under scrutiny in the 
. media harsh spotlight. I had to get my 
hands . on a copy of the play. 
"Pappy, take me to Blockbuster. 
Please?" Surreptitiously, I combed the 
rows until I found the videocassette 
with Eve Ensler sitting atop a stool, 
.. 
her coral :red lips opened in an oval. A 
little like a vagina, I thought. I handed 
the tape to my father, banking on his 
lack of English proficiency to save me 
from mortification. He failed to 
escape embarrassment when the 
cashier 
gave 
him 
a 
fifty-or-so 
Haitian iuunigrant with a copy of the 
Vagina Monologues 
a peculiar look; 
I've since called hit n my first, albeit 
unwilling, feminist. After a litde 
explaining and coaxing, he's formally 
taken on the tide. 

On the tape, what a fen1aJe! At the 
end of Easler's performance, I had 
heard the word "vagina" so many 
times my ears were smarting. After a 
while, the stinging sensation of hear-
ing and thinking about my vagina with 
such intensity faded to a dull buzz. 
Wo-man, woman, womanhood. The 
return to the pitter-patter rhytbtn of 
daily existence dented those thoughts. 
43 


--- Page 44 ---

Sure, going to an all-girl school helped 
me understand femininity, but this 
fetnininity was new and imperfect. 
Four years later, the email subject 
"Vagina Monologues" delivered a 
shiver of .shock to my body. It's not 
everyday the word "vagina" busts into 
an email subject-line. On that day, 
December 4, 2004, I, Elizabeth, 
signed away my old ways when I hit 
the reply button. I had no clue what I 
was ge~tttng mto. 

Much of the feminist philosophy 
embedded in the script of the Vagina 
Monologues seeks to demystify worp.an-
hood. Ensler's argument is that the 
present environment in which girls are 
raised propagates a stereotype of what 
it means to be a woman. This environ-
ment rejects the diversity of woman-
hood in favor of one "perfect female." 
Consequently, women grow to be 
ashamed of their bodies and sexuality. 
But Ensler frowns on women who 
"masculinize" themselves to be one of 
the boys. Rather, an ideal society 
would recognize differences between 
men and women and respect both 
sexes equally. Ensler's philosophy is 
played up by the shock factor of the 
Vagina Monologues with its shock fac-
tor: The word "vagina" is mentioned 
over thirty tit.nes and each monologue 
is unabashedly provocative. The play 
deconstructs the "perfect woman" to. 
show that fetnininity comes in all 
shapes and sizes. Womanliness has no 
single definition; a woman is what and 
how she chooses to be. 

In spite of having already seen 
Ensler weep, bellow, whisper about 
the female condition, when preparing 
for the Vagina Monologues produc-
tion four years later, I was still no fem-
inist convert. I was certainly awed, and 
perhaps even inspired to inspect my 
own vagina, but I dared not call myself 
a feminist. Ijke other Yale ladies, I had 
begun sentences with, "I'm not a fem-
inist but ... " I liked tny bras, my 
hygiene and my men, thank you very 
much. I couldn't help but be haunted 
44 
---'-~~- - - -
by visions of unsightly cave women. 
The word seemed outdated, even 
irrelevant considering the voting 
rights, education and access to most 
professions that women had gained in 
the past century. The job was done, 
and the ancient machine which built it 
up ought to be torn down. 

As production started, odd instances 
and facts began to pop out at me. It 
was as though someone had gone 
through and vividly highlighted them 
with a massive yellow marker; certain 
memories, certain places, certain_ facts 
took on a fluorescent glow that I 
could not blithely avoid. 
They 
harkened my eyes and turned my ears 
to hear their call. The warrior (a vagi-
nal one) had heard the battle cry. 
Chit chatter. "Nobody likes her." 
"Did you see her with hitn?" "She 
makes me ·sick." "A slut." Like the 
Democratic Party, I discovered that 
sisterhood is full of factions and 
opposing values. One lady's expecta-
tions are another lady's litnits. For my 
fortunate male counterparts, "slut" 
does not have the same derisive effect. 
He may be relegated the tide "playa," 
but how enticing! He is a Don Juan, 
not a whore. 

To complement sisterhood's internal 
strife, I began to notice what I call the 
desire for self-
· · arion. In one day 
I counted 175 derogatory conunents 
pertaining to weight, hair style and 
looks-a value which averages to 15 
insults per hour. This need to break-
down the self Ensler says, "Is like an 
addiction. You have to tnake that con-
scious effort will you pick up self-
hatred today?" 

In 1969, Yale College accepted its 
first women. That was 73 years after 
Duke, 79 years after Stanford (which 
accepted women &om its inception) 
and 1 04 years after Cornell. The 
stodgy historical figures whose por-
traits overlook my meals are predotni-
nandy male. Like it or not, these fel-
lows shaped Yale's history, and as for-
mer President of Duke and Yale 
alumna, N annerl Keohane succinctly 
noted, the portraits are evidence of 
"who matters around this place." 

A look at the University's academic 
environment shows that only 19 per-
cent of its tenured faculty are female. 
Recent studies observing the class-
room behavior of Yale and Harvard 
students demonstrate that women are 
three titnes more likely to talk with 
professors of the same sex. Men 
spoke two and a half titnes longer 
than women, who were interrupted 
incessantly. Each female student must 
defend herself against male Yale, 
other ladies with viperous tongues 
and, at titnes, herself. 

A week prior to opening night of 
the Vagina Monologues, my friend Cara's 
relationship with her boyfriend was in 
danger. Continuous verbal abuse had 
eroded their mutual respect, and 
words like "bitch" becarne thoughdess 
interjections and insults. Unfounded 
jealousy, accusations and suspicion 
abounded; Cara felt uncomfortable 
and depressed. Prompted by pressure 
from their friends, the two concluded 
that a serious talk was in order. Friday 
evening was the proposed date for a 
conversation, but Michael · chose to 
drink excessively before the scheduled 
discussion and much to our conster-
nation, he became violent and alarm-
ingly belligerent. Michael grabbed 
Cara and they retreated to an undis-
closed location to begin their discus-
sion. I have seldom been as frightened 
for someone's safety. So an anxious 
Seattle native, a liberal Texan and I set 
-
out to find her. We searched through-
out the college, looking in empty 
rooms, the courtyard, even the library, 
in hopes of whisking Cara away from 
irnpending danger. When we found 
them, Cara appeared safe, sitting on a 
' 
chair talking to Michael 
though she 
later confided he had been aggressive-
ly throwing furniture before we 
arrived. The decision they made was 
to remain in a relationship. Frankly, it 
was disappointing to see how trivial 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


--- Page 45 ---

his violence was to her, not to men-
tion his belittling of her womanhood. 
That experience riled the dormant 
feminist within me to notice the con-
ditions that I, like Cara, had come to 
accept. 

On our grand ivy campus I had 
· 
encountered, through Cara, a situa-
tion that I had assumed only existed 
elsewhere. A woman's need to protect 
herself was a moot point, I thought. 
Yet the reality of my fear for Cara was, 
in fact, quite significant. This fear 
roused me from my delusions and I 
began to recognize that the things-
you-just-know were not so implied. 
r 
They ~ere defense mechanism against 
a threatening outside world. 

Easler's voice trembles in front of 
six hundred Yale students: "When 
this world starts respecting our 
women, then this earth will be right 
with itsel£ When we believe in the 
feminine, the course of nature will 
change." In the darkness, I stare up at 
the five women pulsing in red dresses 
and am starded to find that Ensler is 
nearly in tears. We did something 
right. In the same darkness that 
engulfed us every night for rehearsal, 
I understand that performance night 
is my salvation. Six hundred Y alies 
(save a few shy ones) shouted "cunt" 
at the top of their lungs, blessing that 
word. They held the most sacred 
hush I've ever heard in a theater dur-
ing a segment on a Bosnian woman's 
brutal rape. And if I could botde the 
electricity surging through the Yale 
Law School when Molly Fox per-
formed nine different types of sexual 
moans, _ concluding with the nearly 
palpable triple orgasm, it'd be a Red 
Bull with wings. 

Afterwards, people exited the theater 
saying they had never felt so free. 
Maybe shouting "cunt" or listening to 
moans in public helped cause that sen-
sation, but something more had hap-
pened. Free. Feer. Fear. Freedom. That 
last word meant redemption. I was 
afraid, am still afraid, but at least I'm 
·-
aware of it now. When I enlisted as a 
Vagina Warrior, I had unwittingly 
embarked 
an 
epic 
journey. 
Somewhere between the statistics about 
-women at Yale, Cara's struggle for self-
respect and freeing myself from the 
expectations of womanhood, I learned 
to understand mysel£ My shooshoon 
was repressed; now it is alive. I'm not 
afraid to think about my vagina any-
more. It's like waking up from a drunk-
en stupor to the moment of clarity and 
the severe headache that escorts the 
reality of the morning after. 

The rest of the world, unfortunate-
ly, did not wake up with me. I till can-
not party alone at a frat or roll up my 
skirt, even though I like the feel of the 
breeze traveling up my legs. But I now 
know that I am afraid. I know this 
world is no utopia. Maybe President 
Bush would be pleased with my stance 
on rny right to self-defense. 

So to freedom I go~ This is one 
instance when ignorance is not bliss. 
I've let it all in into my shooshoon: 
my heart. 
Elizabeth St. Victor, a freshman in 
Silliman College, is on the staff of TN]. 
45 



**Title: A Day of Mooching**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As I join the ranks of rising juniors departing from the residential college system next year, I can feel my cool points surging daily:. Moving off campus is hip: It means house parties, halogen lights and closets that can hold more than two hangers. Unfortunately, it also means handling my own meals a step towards adulthood I'm not quite ready to take. After calculating that ordering takeout every night next year would slash through my meager savings in about three weeks, I vowed to teach myself to cook. 
It didn't go well. 

Consequently, I've devised an innovative approach to off-campus dining that combines frugality and culinary exertion: free food. Like the tight-fisted uncle who scarfs down an entire basket of corn chips at a Mexican restaurant, I plan to reduce spending by increasing sampling. After serious field work; including polling the homeless, I decided to put my plan to the test by embarking on a one-day mooching spree. Twenty-four hours, no dining halls, zero purchased food: one hundred percent fare gratis. 

My penny-pinching adventure began at midnight, and I was prepared. At 12:01, I hunched over a garbage bag outside Atticus Bookstore and Cafe, hoping to scrounge up enough sustenance to get me through the next day. But the next morning, I awoke twenty minutes before my first class to find that all that remained of my roasted garlic ciabatta loaf was a gnawed crust of bread. 
One of my roommates walked by and said apologetically. 
"Sorry ... we got hungry last night. It's not like you paid for it." 

After grazing on the meager remains of my loaf throughout Spanish, I sidled into Au Bon Pain and nonchalantly asked for soup samples of Jamaican black bean and minestrone. The chef, a heavy-set woman with a faint moustache, handed me two shot-glass-sized cups filled to the brim. I downed them, wrinkled my nose, and kindly requested the chicken florentine. But before I could plead for chowder, she rolled her eyes and walked away. I licked my lips and crawled out like the rat that I was. 

After staring at a box of graham crackers in my room (pre-purchased and thus forbidden) for half an hour, I decided it was time for dessert. I happily noted that one of the more hippie-like Ashley's employees was at the counter so I asked for a taste of cinnamon ice cream. 
He handed me a spoonful the size of a fingernail. 
I frowned at it, then nibbled slowly. A thousand of these samples wouldn't get me anywhere. I had to hurry to reach Tasti DLite before class, so I darted out of Ashley's with a vision of waffle cones teeming with creamy sorbet. When I reached Tasti-D, I breathlessly asked to try all four flavors: 

The condiment cups were fairly sizeable (about three spoonfuls each), and I lined them up on the only bench in the stark room. While the cashiers watched, I slowly sucked the contents of the Tiramisu sample, ignoring the chemical aftertaste. I shivered with pleasure, then glanced at the door, hoping a new customer would distract the workers. No such luck. They watched me with repulsed fascination, and I pretended not to notice. After downing the fourth cup, I touched the phone in my bag and rattled it as though it were vibrating. 
"Uh, phone call. Be right back. To buy something." The cashiers stared in disbelief. 
I stumbled over the bench and out the door, then dashed into class on the heels of my sugar intake. Seven minutes later, my stomach began to rumble like a rusty carburetor. 

Folie a deux, I scribbled furiously, trying to suppress the roar. Pyramus and Thisbe. The professor's head had morphed into a doughy dinner roll. I blinked, and it was suddenly patted with melted butter. I bolted. 

With a list in my hand and nothing in my stomach, I hit all of the spots on my itinerary within an hour. Animal crackers and coffee at Ten Thousand Villages; shortbread and strawberries at Wave Gallery. I knew there was a Master's Tea in Swing Space at four, so I slunk by when the lecture began, nabbing a few cubes of cheddar, a handful of crackers and an Oreo. One of the master's aides politely coughed. I snarled. 

After reading take-out menus and watching the Food Network for an hour and a half it was six, and I had run out of options. I had planned on holding out for ABP's day-old pastries at 11, but the wait seemed interminable. My next move was clear: I had to sneak into a dining hall. I chose JE for its overall squalor, and casually walked in towards the baked goods, as though I had already swiped. Just as I was about to inhale an organic brownie, I felt a hand on my shoulder. 
"Did you 

Panicked, I dropped the brownie and sprinted out, realizing too late that my assailant was a classmate, not a dining hall worker. I slowed down and began walking home, then stopped on the corner of York and Elm. The scent of the burrito cart, in all of its chili-pepper-panted, salsa-playing glory, wafted across the street. I watched the burrito man stuff a tortilla with rice and black beans, and burned with jealousy when I saw the smarmy expressions of the kids in line. 

Such hunger makes one irrational. I darted across the street, sneaked up to a lacrosse player, and reached for his fresh, steam-foil-wrapped burrito. His eyes widened with fear. I lunged. 
Stealing, after all, doesn't cost a dime. 
Mina Kimes, a sophomore in Davenport College is Production Manager of TNJ. 



I don't want to work for The New Journal! I have better things to do with my time than work for a magazine that has received every major writing prize at Yale as well as the Rolling Stone College Journalism Award. 
Besides, you and I both know that The New Journal is just a training ground for media types like TNJ founder, and Pulitzer Prize winner, Daniel Yergin or past TNJ staffer, and editor of the Chicago Tribune, Jack Fuller. 

And you think just because The New Journal is the oldest magazine at Yale and also has the largest circulation, I'm supposed to be impressed? Give me some credit. So, I beg of you, go ask someone who cares. 

Well, I'd love to help you! The New Journal is looking for innovative writers, DTP demigods, cutting-edge designers, dynamic photographers, artistes extraordinaires, business tycoons, and interested/interesting Yalies in general. 

For more information, contact Romy.Drucke@yale.edu
April 2005 

