Publication date: 1998
Volume: [Volume number not specified]
Issue number: [Issue number not specified]

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Justin Saclts
- Editor-in-Chief: Iain R. Weir
- Managing Editors: Dan Kellum, Jamica Wintter
- Business Manager: Julia Lee
- Designer: Hrishikesh C. Hirway
- Production Manager: David Slifka
- Photography Editor: Anya E. Ufitig
- Accounts Manager: Navin Manglani
- Associate Editor: Eli Kintisch
- Research Directors: Michael Gelb, Andrew Young
- Circulation and Subscriptions Managers: Jess Champagne, Ronit Givony
- Staff: Vanessa Agard-Jones, Lori Brocly, Jo Coakley, Jason D'Cruz, Jesse Dillon, Jay Dixit, Monica Jin, Yuki Noguchi, Daphna Roman, Genevieve Tali,  Lee Wang
- Member, 1997 Editorial Board: Emily Baulon, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Hillary Margolis, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Blow, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Scott Ballou, Anson M. Beard Jr., Claire Bennett, Edward B. Bennett Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Paul S. Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Barbara Burrell, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, John Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, E.I.W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Cowan, Jerry and Rox Cowan, Mimi Denison, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Arturo Gandara, Sherrill Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Jane Kamau, Brooks Kelley, Rolf Kullwood, Andrew J. Kuznaki Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Hank Manssbock, Martha E. Neil, Peter Naughton, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Julie Peters, Jill and Joan Plan, Josh Plaut, Juju Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randall, Rollin Riggs, Mark Rindfleisch, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Stuart Rohrer, Arlene and Arthur Sager, Dick and Dabobe Sears, Richard Shields, W. Haropron Sides, Lisa Silverman, Elizabeth and William Sledge, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Tordella, Matthew Turner, Alan and Sarah Wardell, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**Title: Seeking the Spirit Level**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 8**

In store fronts and private homes, the traditions and trappings of folk
religions mingle with more mainstream beliefs.


**Title: Photo Essay: American Dream**
**Author: Elena Oxman**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: Mixed Messages**
**Author: Dan Kellum**
**Page number(s): 16**

Two recent postering incidents leave ambiguous messages behind.


**Title: Left at the Center**
**Author: Jess Champagne**
**Page number(s): 22**

At the New Haven People's Center, old guard radicals keep Communist
ideals alive.


**Title: From Our Perspective**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Between the Vines: White Bred, White Trash**
**Author: Anya E. Ufitig**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Spinoza, Liberalism, and the Question of Jewish Identity**
**Author: Jason D'Cruz**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: Endnote: What I Saw at the Revolution**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Whose line is it, anyway?**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FROM AN UNDERGRADUATE'S PERSPECTIVE, 
unions at Yale appear to serve only a 
perennial role, one almost as predictable and 
expected as the grass-growing rituals on Old 
Campus. The contract expires, the union 
wants to make changes, Yale dislikes them, 
the two sides bicker for months on end and 
at the last possible minute the dispute is settled and the issue disappears back into the 
stonework. The intervening confla-
gration of vigils, parades, 
sidewalk proselytization 
and omnipresent pro-
paganda more closely 
resembles the internal 
contretemps of an emerg-
ing Eastern European coun-
try than the goings-on at an 
elite university. 

Well, that's how it's supposed to 
work, anyway. 

Ask any junior or senior if the names 
Proto, Vallone, Locals 34 and 35 and GESO 
ring a bell, and memories of the strike of '96 
emerge as dearly as did the unions' 6 a.m. 
chants two springs ago. 

The most recent labor flare-up between 
the YPBA and Yale heralds a marked divergence from the trend to which upperclass-
men are now accustomed. No marches on 
Beinecke Plaza, no visiting celebrities to 
attract media attention to the unions' cause. 
In fact, both the police union and Yale seem 
determined to avoid attention. 

Let's back up for a minute. How many 
students actually know exactly what YPBA 
stands for? (Hint: the "B" stands for "Benevolent." Catchy, no?) How about the names 
Juhas and Morganti? The most noted participants in this dispute aren't even from the 
unions or the administration. They're students like Noel Poyo (MC '98), who have 
assumed roles as active champions of a 
hushed and elusive cause. 

But what is this cause for which they 
fight? Why doesn't anyone know what's 
going on, and why doesn't anyone care? All 
the student publications covered the battle 
between Locals 34 and 35 and Yale. The Yale 
Daily News ran labor articles every morning, 
and, during the strike, devoted a full column 
to day-by-day updates of labor talks. The 
New journal dedicated an entire issue to the 
topic of "Labor at Yale." 

No one is reporting the YPBA dispute 
precisely because nothing seems to be happening. The situation sounds a rather absurd 
note for labor relations. The administration 
says it's ready and waiting for the YPBA to 
contact them; all the union has to 
do is pick up the phone. The 
police 
union, 
meanwhile, 
alleges that the University is 
stonewalling them and trying 
to bully them into 
signing a contract. And 
both sides optimistically 
express their confidence 
in reaching an agree-
ment-soon. Yale and the unions 
must be honing their diplomatic acumen, 
because they haven't publicly met since 
December. 

More disconcerting than the lack of 
basic communication between the two sides 
is the lack of even feigned concern on the 
part of Yale and its students. Who will be 
on the other end of the blue phone if the 
YPBA is on the picket line? 

One can only guess why the police 
union agreed to a gag rule for speaking to the 
press about labor relations. Perhaps they 
thought it would make talks with Yale easier, 
or maybe they didn't think the students held 
enough clout with the higher-ups. But by 
keeping the situation under wraps, the YPBA 
lost one of its greatest potential allies. Who 
else should care about security if not the students? Why should students care if they don't 
know that their security is at risk? 

The question of who's to blame is moot 
since neither side, nor the people caught in 
the middle, are stirred enough to point a finger. In the good old days of labor strife, we 
could count on the eleventh hour. But today, 
no one even cares what time it is. 


**Getting Over Aesthetics**
**Author: Heidi Vogt**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

"Look at the ceiling height here," Richard 
Lytle says as he stands up and touches plaster 
with the palm of 
his 
hand. 
"I 
mean, it's ridiculous!" Lytle grins 
and 
sits 
back 
down, still laughing at the ceiling 
barely above him. 
It is the seven 
foot ceiling on 
the eighth floor 
of Yale's Art and 
Architecture 
Building. 
Seven 
feet-perfectly 
good 
walk 
around under, to 
sit down and eat 
or to have a 
conversation 
beneath-but no 
space 
for 
artist about to 
make a ten foot high painting. 

So the painters are leaving. Lytle chairs a 
building committee currently completing 
plans for the School of Art's new home on 
Chapel Street across from the Art & Architecture building. Once the New Haven Jewish Community Center (JCC), 
1156 
Chapel has been vacant for more than 15 
years. The School of Art plans to move in at 
the end of 1999. 

Paul Rudolph designed Yale's A&A building in 1963 and garnered the praise of the 
architecture world for his creative use of 
space. Rudolph's vision was to balance form 
and void, interior and exterior, rough and 
smooth. But Lytle's committee is balancing 
different scales: cost and time, function and 
appearance, one artist's space versus another's. 

The A&A building is still a staple of architecture textbooks, and Rudolph remains recognized as an outstanding pioneer of modern 
architecture. "It's a monumental piece of 
sculpture," Lytle says, even 30 years after plywood partitions and lopsided drafting tables 
have broken up Rudolph's original vision. 

Forced out by cramped conditions, much 
of the School of Art has already left the 
Rudolph building behind. Sculpture hides 
out on Mansfield Street. Graphic Design is 
on Park Street. Undergraduate painting is 
split between York and Park. The renovated 
JCC building will eventually bring these 
departments back together. But, more importantly, it will give students in each department more space. 

After all, a "monumental piece of sculpture" isn't always the best place to create sculpture. "To make art you need light, air and 
space," says Richard Benson, Dean of the Art 
School. "But the real thing you need is a 
building that the art students can ruin. You 
can't put art students or artists in a space and 
not expect them to make a mess of it." So 
when the School of Art decided to renovate 
1156 Chapel, Lytle's committee left the Paul 
Rudolphs behind and went straight to architect Deborah Berke, author of Architecture for 
the Everyday, a book compiled to remind us 
that successful architecture can be extremely 
unmonumental. 

"We're not trying to get a place with beautiful finishes and perfect detail. What we really need is a big set of loft spaces," says Benson. 

The new Yale School of Art building will have 
painting studios on the top floor to access the 
best light. It will have computer hookups, 
year-round climate control and a three level 
gallery. It will have space. And so will the Yale 
School of Architecture. The Rudolph building is slated to be renovated soon after the 
School of Art moves out, restoring many of 
the open spaces that have been closed up for 
convenience. 

"We don't study art. We make art," Benson says with a smile in his half-partitioned 
A&A office. "That's what we're interested in." 

Making art just doesn't require hand-molded 
walls and blank open voids. What it does 
require, according to the present renovation 
plan, are freight elevators, wide staircases and 
some really high ceilings. 


**Housecall on Mars**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 6**

Those who spend their days looking 
through telescopes have been given new reason to turn their gazes back toward Earth. 
NASA and the Yale School of Medicine, the 
most unlikely of partners, have engaged in a 
collaborative project to develop futuristic 
medical technologies. Researchers from the 
Commercial Space Center for Medical Informatics 
Technology 
Application 
(CSC/MITA), located at the medical school, 
have been working almost five years to reinvent health care through the burgeoning field 
of telemedicine. 

CSC/MITA was created to foster a partnership among businesses, academic centers 
and government agencies that would develop 
advanced technology for NASA's needs, especially missions to Mars. The Center has since 
become a leader in the telemedicine field, 
which allows doctors to administer health care 
electronically 
distant 
points. 
Its 
researchers have invented devices that allow 
doctors to check a patient's blood pressure, 
pulse, body temperature and oxygen levels 
from continents or even planets away. Such 
groundbreaking gadgets are complemented by 
new technology to facilitate remote surgery 
whereby a physician could move his hand in a 
sensor on earth and have a scalpel move in the 
same direction in space. 

Though these projects may sound far-
fetched, they will be tested in the coming 
weeks. In May, CSC/MITA will have its first 
opportunity to test these technologies in 
remote conditions similar to outer space: the 
Yale team will participate in the 1998 Everest 
Extreme Expedition. Climbers, scientists and 
doctors will put geological and surveying 
devices on the mountain's summit more than 
29,000 feet above the ground. Researchers 
from CSC/MITA will then establish an 
advanced medical clinic at Base Camp to provide telemedical support for the 1998 climbing season and experiment with some of their 
latest medical technologies. 

"Scientific investigation of high altitude 
effects with technology previously not available will extend our understanding of the 
human body beyond the incredible discoveries of previous expeditions," said Dr. Richard 
Satava, director of CSC/MITA. When the 
climbers begin their assault of the summit, 
they will wear vital signs sensors and wireless 
transmitters that collect scientific data on performance and endurance. The Center's 
newest telemedicine programs will transmit 
these vital signs to doctors at the School of 
Medicine. Data concerning nearly every 
aspect of human endurance, including blood 
pressure, pulse, EKGs, body temperature and 
signs of fatigue, will be transmitted in real 
time for Yale researchers to monitor. "All this 
data will be analyzed to help further our 
knowledge of human performance in extreme 
environments," said Satava. 

When the climbers put on such exotic 
accessories as medical sensors and portable 3-
D tele-ultrasound systems during the ascent 
in Nepal, doctors in New Haven will be analyzing the effects of high altitude. They will 
also diagnose any injuries that might occur. 
But while virtual diagnosis may be appealing 
to the climbers, with the nearest doctor 
10,000 feet away, treatment is another issue. 


**Tune Inn, Sell Out**

When I went to the Tune Inn on Saturday 
night the crowd sported mohawks-big skyscraper mohawks towering above their heads 
in green and purple spikes a foot tall or more. 
The punk-lovers came from all over New 
Haven, Stamford, Milford and Guilford. 

They were pierced and wore torn clothes, 
dark, heavy eyeliner and black cherry lipstick. 
Some stood outside near the club entrance, 
where the sound of beating drums and angry 
shouts pulsed into the street on waves of sweat 
and cigarette smoke. A hundred more slam-
danced on the 269-person dance floor inside. 

Several kids unloaded a cargo van parked



**The Tune Inn: A New Haven Institution Faces Change**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
in front of the club. Carrying variously 
shaped black boxes, they exchanged some 
hand slaps with the ktds loitering outside, 
then tried to make their way inside. Fernando 
Pinto, the club's owner, stopped them at the 
door-"Hey, hey, hey" -
and held out his 
hand for the cover charge. They looked at 
him strangely. 

"They're in the band," explained a green-
haired kid standing by the entrance. Fernan-
do gave an embarrassed smile and motioned 
for them to pass. The band members pushed 
him aside. 

In the six years that he has run the club, 
Fernando has become accustomed to put-
downs 
from 
his sometimes 
volatile 
crowds. Since 
founding the 
Tune Inn in 
1992, he has 
devoted 
the 
all-ages 
club 
to 
punk, 
hard-core and 
ska 
cultures 
whose 
main 
joy 
comes 
from defying 
the establish-
ment, includ-
ing him. Each 
night he stands at the door as a bouncer and 
enforces the cover charge. More than once he 
has had to flush patrons' weed supplies down 
the toilet or pour their 50 ounce bottles of gin 
into the street. His crowds have also caused 
problems with investors in the club's Ninth 
Square neighborhood, who would like to see 
the Tune Inn razed as part of a neighborhood 
revitalization effort. Fernando recendy put 
the club on the market. As head of his own 
label, Elevator Music (which launched groups 
such as Dinosaur Jr. and the Flaming Lips), 
he can return to promotion as soon as he sells 
the club. "Running this place is hard," he 
said. "I want a more relaxed job." 

Fernando's efforts to make his club more 
marketable have frustrated club die-hards try-
ing to escape the mainstream music scene. 
Once a place where parents were afraid to 
send their children, the Tune Inn now swarms 
with giddy 12-year-olds who listen to M1V-
populariz.ed ska and wear baby T-shirts 
straight out of a YM spread. "They don't care 
about the music," said Liz Chodos, 16, a 
Tune Inn veteran. "They just go because they 
think it's cool to be in downtown New Haven 
at night." 

In the six months since it obtained its 
liquor license, the Tune Inn has drastically 
altered its set-up. A ceiling-high wire fence 
now blocks off half the dub for the 21 and 
over patrons. A full bar with pool tables, a red 
Buddha, a montage of old guitars, construe-
cion hats and steer horns now stands where 
there were once comfy couches and picnic 
tables. "The Tune Inn used to have this weird 
atmosphere that was really attractive," said 
Liz. "Now it's 
really hard to 
sit down any-
where." 

Fernan-
do sees in his 
older crowd 
the opportu-
nity to pro-
mote 
blues, swing, 
garage, 
surf 
and rockabil-
ly music that 
he 
believes 
will 
domi-
nate under-
ground ' s 
future. Hard-core shows that draw younger 
audiences have nearly disappeared from the 
club roster, restricted to 5 p.m. Sunday 
matinees. 

The week before Saturday's show, the 
Tune Inn hosted a swing show. I arrived at 
the club to find four girls, all age 16, wait-
ing outside the club. "It's all old people 
playing music. We didn't know it was all 
old people," said Breigh Garguilo, a four 
year veteran whose business the Tune Inn 
may soon lose. 

The normally full entrance area was 
completely empty. Inside, less than 15 kids 
stood on the giant dance floor, none of them 
dancing. The bar housed a few ratty-haired 
40-year-olds in leather jackets, dressed like 
members of Spinal Tap. Walking back out-
side, I asked the girls what they were doing. 
"Waiting to go home." They would come 
back the next week when Fernando played 
better music. 
- Jada Yuan


**Seeking the Spirit Level**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

ADORNING THE WALLS OF A BACK ROOM IN ANNIE'S APART-
ment near Wooster Square are symbols of African deities, 
Catholic icons, lucky rabbit's feet. Her shelves showcase stat-
ues of saints, carved animal faces and Congo sculpture. 
Yoruba metal symbols adorn the room beside glass bowls of water and 
dozens of candles. Religious beads hang from the walls with Mexican 
hats and dice. Every few moments, a parakeet caws out from its cage. 
The white tablecloth is decorated with uinkets, incense and colorful 
vials of oil. A plastic buddha sur-
veys the scene. To my uninitiated 
eyes, I'm sitting in a virtual Reli-
gious Studies lecture: a feast of 
faiths, a visual dance of doctrines. 

We hear the front door creak 
open, step into the kitchen and see 
two men waiting for Annie. "You 
were right, Annie, you knew he'd 
get shot," says Lamont. He sucks 
his teeth, gold tooth flashing in the 
dim light of the small apartment. 

_ Delroy, his friend, shakes his 
E dreadlocks incredulously. 
~ 
They are here for a consulta-
~ tion with Annie, a practitioner of 
~ Espiritismo, a Puerto Rican folk 
~ religion. Lamont is on probation 
~ for the sale of marijuana, and last 
~ week he and a friend carne to Annie for a consultation. After a prayer 
~ session, Annie warned them that they were in danger. Several hours 
.:i later, his friend was shot on the street. Now, with this friend in the hos-
~ pital and galvanized faith in Annie's abilities, Lamont has returned to 
-5 her aparunent for further spiritual guidance. 

Annie appears glad to see the men, but she is aware of the urgency 
of their visit. Her expression is businesslike as she invites her clients to 
sit down on the plastic picnic chairs at her table. 

Decorum demands that I refrain from watching the session. But 
from my seat in the kitchen, I can peek into Annie's back room to 
watch Lamont. He clasps his hands in front of his face in concentra-
tion. The chants and drum rhythms of traditional Yoruba m_usic rise 
from the stereo. Lazy curls of incense smoke drift through the open 
door towards me, and the kitchen fills with its sweet scent, mixed with 
pungent cigar fumes. ("Many of 
the spirits like the smoke," Annie 
later explains.) Afrer opening with 
a prayer in rapid Spanish, Annie 
listens as Lamont describes the 
spells that have been tormenting 
him. As she later recounts, she . 
lights candles labeled "Justo Juei' 
and "Court Case," and they pray 
for justice. 

Soon it is Delroy's turn. He is a 
Jamaican man in his 40's or 50's 
who swears he has been tormented 
by an evil spell. "My sister has 
been trying to kill me for ten 
years," he says, and Annie begins 
to interrogate him. All I can hear 
are Delroy's impassioned descrip-
tions of the spiritual chaos the 
spells have wreaked, Annie's high-pitched, heavy Spanish accent and a 
periodic "Right, right" from Delroy. They speak for more than an hour 
as the rhythm of the music rages on and the scent of incense thickens. 

Annie prepares a mix of Agua de Florida-a sweet-smelling perfume--
and Delroy fervently spreads the mixture over himself. he covers his 
face, his skin and his clothes. She instruCts Delroy to pray to the spirits 
of his parents, and co cake several spiritual baths over the next few 
weeks. 

Delroy emerges into the kitchen, exhausted. "Annie knows her 
scuff, man," he says. "She's going to help me gee rid of those evil spells." 
My reaction is one of skepticism-magic spells have always been the 
stuff of fairy tales for me. 

I've always felt uncomfortable with the way African religions are 
depicted in pop culture as dark, wicked creeds. But it's hard to defend 
folk religions when confronted with the strangeness of Delroy's 
dtoughts. lc's easy to have an open mind, but does that mean accepting 
all that you take in? 

'' s
ee, we call ourselves Espiritistas," Annie tells me later. "We're 
spiritual people, mediums." She is quick to steer away from 
popular misconceptions of folk religions and voodoo. "We 
are more into God than anything else. This is not Black magic, but 
Mesa Blanca, the White Table." 

Annie explains that the sacred ability to communicate with the spir-
its is known to be passed down in families. "My father was a medium 
too. When I was small, in Puerto Rico, I used to tell people things 
before they happened. He said, 'you're going to follow me'-1 said for-
get ic. But when I carne co th.is country, I saw a reader on TY, and knew 
I had co start using that power." 

After studying for 15 years with a New York spiritualist, Annie 
began to establish a diverse following in New Haven. "Most of my cus-
tomers are black, Jamaican," says Annie. "Plenty of Latinos coo." She 
sees a variety of clients seeking guidance, from couples with marital 
problems and families down on their luck to ex-cons like Lamont. "He 
comes to me a lot, you know. He's always in a lot of trouble with the 
law, he uses three names," says Annie. 

Her powers are renowned in local circles, bur Annie's reputation 
within the loosely-knit Espiritisca community goes far beyond the 
streets of New Haven. Her husband proudly describes the assortment 
of visitors who have come from New York, Boston and Chicago co pray 
with Annie. Recently she was invited co practice in a spiritualist temple 
in New York. 

Annie is quick to set herself apart from other healers, many of 
whom are jealous of her reputation. "I don't go around killing ani-
mals, doing stuff like that. A lot of readers charge three, four, five 
hundred dollars, but I do it for God, for faith, not money, not any-
thing like that." 

Her face is youthful though the edges of her hair are greying. She 
keeps her thick glasses on a beaded cord around her neck. 

"I'll stay our of trouble, Annie," Lamont says on his way our of the 
apartment. He sounds like a boy appeasing his mother. 

Annie's homeland is a world of religious juxtaposition. In the 
islands of the Caribbean, the West A.ftican diaspora has inter-
mingled with Catholic missionaries for centuries. With the 
influx of slaves to the New World, syncretic religions-those that have 
roots in Christianity as weLl as traditional sour~eveloped. These 
include Haitian Voodun, Brazilian Condoble, Cuban Santeria and vari-
ous Catholic folk religions like Espiritismo. The creolization of this reli-
gion, apparent in the eclectic decorations on the walls ot'Annie's room, 
has continued in American cities. Combining elements from Roman 
Catholicism, Santeria, Native American healing riruals and European 
Spiritism, Espiritismo seems a religious microcosm of the American 
melting pot. 

In Espiritismo, prayer to God is essential. Annie explains that an 
appeal to the spirits can be crucial in order co set one's world right. She 



**La Fortuna's Pizza Restaurant**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
La Fortuna's 
PIZZA 
Restaurant 
LUNCH DINNER DAILY SPECIALS SUBS 
Pizza Calzone Subs Beer Wine 
I "" ( lt t I ( lt 'i, I' 
'() ) 
' 
I ' )• J 
\I"'' I . I , , I', 
...... 
~ I ~ ( ' I I ( 
) ' 1 ~ 
Hours: 
Mon-Thurs: llam-!Opm 
Fri: llam-llpm 
Sat: 12 noon-llpm 
996 State Street • New Haven 
Easy off street parking in rear! 


**Untitled**
**Author: E.J. Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

describes the rituals she performs as spiritual 
"work," or service to please the spirits. Indica-
tive of this kind of religious mentality is the 
tattered copy of Success and Pown- through 
Psalms, Annie's guidebook, sitting on the 
white tablecloth. The softcover book offers 
spells, prayers and procedures with the reduc-
tive simplicity of a cookbook, a collection of 
recipes to cure any malady. For an upcoming 
court appearance, it explains, pray to St. John 
the Conqueror with incense and lemon juice_. 
For prosperity, pray to St. Jerome and light a 
votive candle. To ward off the evil eye, wear a 
charm called an acabache. 

"It's all very simple," Annie assures me, 
adjusting the glasses which make her wide 
eyes appear even larger. "If you're working for 
love, you work with apple, with honey, with 
sugar, with Agua de Florida. If you're trying to 
control a person, you put their name in 'com-
manding oil' on your heel and stamp them 
out. If a student comes who's having a test, I 
put the white of an egg in a glass of water, 
pray Psalm 134, and add the mixture with 
wintergreen behind the neck." 

It's one thing to absorb historical facts 
about folk religions, but when interacting 
with people whose faith in the power of the 
"spirits" is part of their daily existence, I find 
myself backing into a skeptic's corner. It's not 
that I don't believe in a higher power, but 
many of Annie's customs just seem contrived 
compared to the religious customs I've 
encountered before. 

Raised in a Jewish household with a week-
ly Shabbos dinner and meat and dairy dishes, 
I grew up viewing ritual customs as passe. As I 
realized that my Jewish traditions were as sub-
jective as other practices I doubted, I devel-
oped a kind of spiritual agnosticism. Sitting 
among the African sculptures and incense, I 
challenged my own conception of valid reli-
gious expression. 

T
he Botanica Chango storefront sits 
quietly along the bustle of Grand 
Avenue, the main drag of Fair Haven. 
Outside, a woman holding a baby hawks 
papayas and platanos from a van. The record 
shop across the street advertises "Salsa" in 
neon spray paint. Here, as in many small 
cities in southern Connecticut, se habla 
espanoL 

Shops like Botanica Chango, a religious 
drugstore, novelty shop and modern-day 
apothecary rolled in one, offer rare public evi-
dence of a secretive world. As Good Friday 
approaches, the patrons inspect trinkets, oils 
and lotions that line the store shelves. Chil-
dren are sent by their mothers to pick up can-
dles, and espicitistas stock up on supplies. An 
occasional big spender asks about the porce-
lain statues of saints on the higher shelves or 
the full body snakeskins that hang above the 
cash register. Young mothers with toddlers 
peruse the greeting cards on their way to the 
perfume counter. 

Some bring religious prescriptions written 
by their espiritistas on fine stationery. Others 
ask Grace, the friendly store manager, for 
remedies. More than just the folk believer's 
pharmacist, Grace is often asked to prescribe 
the medicines her store sells. After eight years, 
many of the community's believers have 
grown to rely on her spiritual advice to solve 
their problems. 

"Hola, Grace," calls out a young man 
with a gold chain and sweat pants. He 
explains in Spanish that he's been having 
arguments with his wife. Grace leans forward 
on her elbows and listens closely, asking the 
occasional question. She gives him blue 
lotion, a candle and a pack of incense. 

Relieved, he thanks her. 

Later, Grace explains the sale. "I gave him 
that bath lotion to remove the tension from 
his body, gave him that incense to dear the air 
in his house, and the candle to help him see 
the problems better." It's a holistic system of 
healing-the supernatural combined with the 
commonsensical. 

Almost all of those who believe in tradi-
tional religions consider themselves Catholic, 
even though the Pope has reiterated the 
Churdis ban on folk practices during several 
visits to the Caribbean. Although Grace con· 
tends that a large portion of the Fair Haven 
community practices some type of Catholic 
folk religion, local religious leaders seem to 
consider practices like Espiritismo childish 
behavior, not serious hereticism. 

"I might allude to it in one of my ser-
mons, but it's not an issue for my church," 
said Father Burbank at St. Rose's in Fair 
Haven. With a 70 percent Latino congrega-
tion, he's aware of the traditions behind the 
closed doors of many Latin American house· 
holds. "To find those religions I'd have to go 
digging for it-no one's going to tell me 
about it." 


THE NEW JouRNAL 


--- Page 11 ---

Yet even though local religious officials 
choose co overlook these secretive religious 
forms, Annie says she has received implicit 
suppon for the work she does. "A priest from 
St. Mary's in New Haven once saw my room, 
and he blessed it, saying, 'As long as you don't 
harm anybody, it's OK"' 

Followers of Catholic folk religions are as 
observant as any other Catholics. "I just don't 
work on Holy Week before Easter," says 
Annie. "That's the time for prayer, to seep 
back, to pray co God, let Him do His work." 

Even though Annie is devoutly religious, 
it seems appropriate that she rediscovered 
Espiritismo through television, considering 
that folk religions have grown into a commer-
cial industry. Botanica Chango boasts "Free 
Money" candles and cans of "Three Kings" 
aerosol spray, which sport pictures of Jesus on 
their labels. Several times I watched patrons at 
Botanica Chango compare different brands of 
the same candle like shoppers in a flea market. 

In fact, the store caters to any spiritually 
aware customer, not just the consumer with 
Delroy's ingrained beliefs in the power of 
voodoo and spells. Many are middle class peo-
ple with a wider belief in spirituality than 
most. One afternoon I watched a tall African-
American woman direct Grace's assistant in 
finding a medicinal lotion. "Right there on 
the lefi: next co the blue one. And can I gee 
some oil of High John the Conqueror?" She 
leaves the score with $20 wonh of candles, 
lotion and incense. 

When I ask her which system of worship 
she practices, she laughs. "Espiritismo? Sante-
ria? What's that? I speak English," she says, 
depositing the shopping bag into the back of 
her Buick, next to the antifreeze. It turns out 
that she is Pentacostal. "I was brought up just 
believing in God-but God gave us wisdom 
to learn about the spiritual world." 

C C T
e traditional religions are alive 
and well going into the next cen-
tury," says Roben Thompson, 
Yale's expen on Wesc African religious cul-
ture. "AU religions of the world are coming 
out in our cities. There are differences to be 
celebrated regardless of the racist snickers of 
the West. What aU religions share is a search 
for meaning." 

Grace's husband, Angel Maninez, shows 
me the warehouse where Boranica Chango 
stores its supplies. He points to a porcelain 
statue of Santa Barbara in the corner. "If the 
president of Yale came co me with a blank 
check and offered me any amoum of money, I 
wouJd not give him this statue. She came to 
us in a vision, she is our guardian angel." 

I smile at his faith, his fervor. I'm not 
ready to accept the alternative meanings. 
From my rationalise, skeptical perspective, I'm 
more comfortable with my doubts. 

"You don't believe. I see this, you don't 
believe. Tonight, when you go home and try 
to sleep you won't be able to." Angel stares 
hard at my shocked expression. "Then you 
will believe." 

181 
EJi Kintisch, a junior in Ezra Stiln Co/kg~. is 
associau ~diwr ofTNJ. 


Congratulations to our 
graduating seniors: 
Alec Hanley Bemis 
Loren Brody 
Jesse Dillon 
Jay Dixit 
Dana Goodyear 
Kavita Mariwalla 
Dan Murphy 
Yuki Noguchi 
Catherine Olender 
Asa Piya.ka 
Gabriel Snyder 
SELF-sERVICE • 7 da.ys &.m-lOpm 
WASH, DRY Ill FOLD 
DRY CLEANING • SHIRT SERVICE 
Mon-Fri 7am-6pm. Sat 9&m-Spm 
BIG Washers 
11 


**American Dream**
**Author: Elena Oxman**
**Page number(s): 12**

12 
American Dream 
Elena O xman 
I took these photograp~ in Utah over Spring Break. Most of the towns I photographed were siruated in 
the Northern Valleys, some right outside of fancy ski resorts like Park City. The contrast was astounding. I 
saw very few people as I walked around, and I think the photographs reflect this sense of loneliness. The 
human traces in the pictures are mostly inanimate-signs, cars, houses. I photographed them because I fed 
they are charged with the hope and tragedy of the American Dream. 
TH£ NEw JouRNAL 



**Title: IJ**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
IJ


**Title: THE NEw JouRNAL**
**Page number(s): 14**

THE NEw JouRNAL


**Title: 15**
**Page number(s): 15**

15


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he sky that Saturday was the color of 
swimming pools. It was the kind of day 
when undergraduates flood Cross 
Campus in T-shirts and flip-flops even 
if the temperature calls for cardigans and socks. 
Though there was a breeze that delivered waves 
of goose bumps, when the wind was still you 
could feel the sun beating down as if it were summer
already. Even though it was only the first 
week after Spring Break, the gray of winter and 
the worries of the school year seemed to evaporate
with the sun's arrival. 

Despite the appearance on Cross Campus of 
leisure and laxness, a cool undercurrent of 
anxiety was about. Among the 
clumps of people laughing one 
could see course packets, the 
pages rustling, perhaps unat-
tended but nonetheless opened, 
as if reading were possible in 
such weather and in such com-
pany. There was the steady 
stream of more conscientious 
students cloistering themselves in Cross 
Campus Library. Among those 
moving 
underground 
were 
three members of Consent, an 
undergraduate 
organization 
that staffs a sexual assault hot-
line. They carried helpful hints about protection, 
a computer printout on blue paper which read 
RAPE AWARENESS WEEK in large letters and news-
paper clippings mounted on paper in eye-catch-
ing Day-Glo colors. The three Consent members 
were there to set up a display in one of the glass 
cases between Machine City and CCL. The dis-
play would draw attention to the upcoming 
National Rape Awareness Week and promote 
events the group was sponsoring on campus. 
"I felt proud making the display," said Maren 
Obermann (CC '99). "It's an issue I care very 
much about, and I thought it was effective. I 
thought people would notice it." In particular she 
mentioned the newspaper clippings from a variety 
of sources: the New York Times, a year-old Yale Herald
letter to the editor, and then too, recent clip-
pings from the Yale Daily News covering an alleged 
sexual assault case in an off-campus apartment in 
November. "I thought it would get people's atten-
tion," said Obermann. 

By the time the Consent volunteers finished 
stapling their display it was around 4:30. The 
library was set to close at five. There was no key to 
the glass case, so they left it unlocked. Then, proud 
of their work, they filed out of the underground 
tunnel, back onto Cross Campus where the last 
few sun-worshipers sat in 
disorganized clumps. 

The next day, two of the 
three Consent volunteers 
were out on Cross Campus 
lawn. Laughter reverberated 
against the stone walls of 
Berkeley College. One of 
the 
Consent 
volunteers, 
Teresa Lawson (MC '99), 
walked into CCL to see the 
display she had so proudly 
assembled the day before, 
but found 
it destroyed. 

Some of the clippings were 
gone and the printout that had read RAPE AWARE-
NESS WEEK now read only AWARENESS. 

It was a strange way to voice dissent. Half of the 
display had been removed, but half had been left 
behind—a ghostly reminder of Consent's efforts to 
advertise—and this fact raised interesting ques-
tions. Had the vandals ripped the whole thing 
down immediately, would the counter-display have 
had the same violent effects? Or leaving it as they 
did? Had the authors of the new display drawn con-
spicuous attention to their own efforts, to their 
power as destroyers of a message? Their action was 
a violent one—a rape of the word—and a preemp-


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Annie Barrett :'(SM '01}**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Annie Barrett :'(SM '01} was 
caught off guard by a flyer 
posted on the kiosk near Elm 
Street at the entrance to Cross 
Campus. "Fag-out" it read in 
bold letters ovet a no-smoking 
symbol and the day's date: 
April 7, 
1998. University 
Health Services had proclaimed 
the date Yale Quit Day. "I 
thought immedi-
ately that some-
one with an ounce 
of wit or someone 
who<l 
gone 
to 
England 
before 
was trying to be 
funny,.. said Bar-
rett. 

The 
sign 
seemed to be a 
play on the double 
meaning of the 
word "fag. • alter-
nately a British 
slang term for cig-
arettes and a slur 
used 
to deride 
homoscmals. 
The poster was 
a complex sign in 
the midst of many other com-
plex signs being bandied about 
on Yale campus. "I wasn't sure 
how to read it," said Barrett. "I 
knew it was an attempt to be 
funny, and I knew I was 
offended, but since the poster 
did not credit a group I wasn't 
sure just how I was supposed to 
read it." In such a situation, 
many might have ignored the 
posters, but Barrett contacted 
University Health Services to 
see if they had sponsored the 
posters in conjunction with 
Yale Quit Day. When they said 
they were not responsible, she 
faced a difficult decision: take 
them down, or leave the posters 
as they were, taCked co the 
kiosks bearing a confusing and 
offensive slur. 

"It was hard for me, but it all 
came down to the fact that 
were anonymous. If there had 
been a name or an organization 
that was responsible, I could 
have sent out an e-
mail/' she said. To 
Barrett the posters' 
anonymity suggest-
ed 
a 
malicious 
intent. Since no 
one wanted to be 
associated 
with 
them, it seemed 
obvious chat the 
person who made 
them 
understOOd 
how they might be 
received. 

'"As the 
situation stood, it 
was dear that it was 
a hate crime. I just 
thought the Yale 
community doesn't 
need to see this." 
Coming to that conclusion, she 
went 
around 
campus 
and 
ripped the posters down. 

T
his incident, unlike that 
of the Consent display, 
was premeditated. Not 
only did the disuibutors of the 
poster design and photocopy 
them ahead of time, but they 
also knew about Yale Quit Day 
and coordinated their efforts 
with that event. Even the ~y 
the posters forged associations 
between the University Health 
Services event and homophobic 
slurs belies a lengthier amount 
of time spent in the produc-
tion of its message. If the 
Consent display incident was 
a bold eraswe, this "Fag-our' 
poster was a campus-wide 
infusion of homophobic sen-
timent. 

As serious as the people 
behind this poster were in 
putting their message out, 
they were nonetheless flip-
pant about where this mes-
sage would go. The posters 
obviously weren't meant to 
do anything except get under 
the collars of people who 
stop to look at kiosks .. The 
· posters provoked 
without 
providing 
forum 
for 
response. In this sense, the 
production of these posters, 
like the destruction of the 
Consent display, was an act 
of confusing negation. We 
are Jeft not only with the 
question, "Why did they 
choose these forms of expres-
sion?'" but also, "Why did 
they bother?" 

Posters, 
after 
aJl. 
are 
advertisements. 
They are 
made to seize our attention. 
If designed .dfectively we 
acwally notice them. We 
find out about the events 
they advertise, even in the 
sea of so many other posters, 
and messages competing for 
ow attention. It is only in 
rare instances that kiosks 
bear the weight of mani-
festos. Colored chalk. in fact, 
seems to be the de facto 
medium of proselytization 
here at Yale. In both cases, 
the 
messages 
easily


**Author: D[avid] L[ehman]**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

erased-if nor-:,by rain then by 
patrol 
of university 
employees 
who 
remove 
posters after they've been 
around a while. In both cases 
the message soon disappears. 

The message behind most 
posters is lost quickly, but 
posters that spark controversy 
necessarily linger in the mind. 
Po!.'ters replace posters in an 
endless 
cycle, 
but 
these 
instances of defacement punc-
ruate the seamless process of 
forgetting. These messages 
linger, though not in a way 
that provokes real thought. 

Ultimately 
they 
confuse 
because, though they produce 
messages, their messages are 
unclear and prone to misun-
derstanding. We can attempt 
to interpret. why a person 
might want to tear down a 
Rape Awareness Week display 
or why a person would put up 
posters that slur a large group 
of srudents, but these inci-
dents in and of themselves do 
nor provide us with any clear 
answers. These are not mani-
festos; they're not even com-
mentaries. Though powerful 
in their method of getting our 
attention, these gestures do 
little once they have it. They 
signal the emptiness of what 
they so 
audaciously and 
anonymously have said. -
Dll1l I<Llhma, • jtmV!r in SiJ/mum Col-
Uv· is A m4114fjng etlikJr of1NJ. 


**Title: · a.nifesto of the CommuniSt Party**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
· a.nifesto of the CommuniSt Party 
v1d a nations become --·-
nd na row-mindedness 
m tl1e numerous natic 
ra ure. 
on property. 
ational on -sidt 
e more and more impossib 
local literatures, ther arise 
rgeo sie, by 
ent of all ·nstruments 
t"on, b 
• communicatic 
11, even t" 
11to civilisation. 1' 
p ices of its 
artillery with whicb 
.. , .. _.... down all Ch 
it forces the barbaria~ 
}, obstin te h 
capitulate. It ~ompels 
, n pain of e 
bourgeois mode of p 
1t compels 
t it oalls civilisation ir 
st, i.e., to 
bourgeo1 
es. In one word, 
~or d after it , own image. 
Jess Champa2ne 
u 
objected the c 
ry o 
e rul of t 
It has 
s cities, has greatly increased t 
~~~~~~·th the rural7 and has thus rescu 
·. 
from the idiocy of rural 1i 
~.-~~~~dent on the towns, so it t 
~ 
..... ·es dependent on the c 
of bourgeois, the E~ 
away with the s 
roduction, and 
o.J-.·L:I< means of p1 
bands. The ne 
~-...~~~~:=::::::....... 
interests, 


<br>

**Title: The New Haven People's Center**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

'' I 
believe a people's movement is about to unfold in this coun-
try. Inequity is rising. Soon, people won't be willing to sit on 
the sidelines any more. We think it's very important to have 
a place for things like this to happen." Joelle Fishman, wear-
ing her customary apologetic smile, gestures at the space around her, a 
large room typical of new suburban houses with hardwood floors, white 
walls and ample sunlight. In this environment, Joelle might be taken 
for a middle-aged housewife, her sweatpants appropriate for cleaning, 
cooking, maybe taking care of aged parents. Similarly, the New Haven 
People's Center might be mistaken for nice but affordable student 
housing conveniently located on Howe Street, close to Mamoun's and 
cheap Chinese food. 

After a moment's conversation with Joelle, a deeper understand-
ing of the building's true personality, and her own, become clear. 
The Center's origin 130 years ago as a private home, and its trans-
formation 50 years later into a meeting place for poor immi-
grants, is reflected in its narrow hallways, small rooms and wide 
selection of leftist literature and posters. Joelle's father, who 
lives with her, is looking through 
the latest P~opk's ~ek(y WOrU the 
national newspa.per of the American 
Communist Party. Even in the stuffy heat 
of the Center, his &ail body is wrapped in a 
heavy coat and wool Scar£ He is dwarfed by Boor-
to-ceiling shelves filled with books. Walking through 
the room, Joelle picks up yellowed photographs of New 
Haven radicals, Communist pamphlets and People's 
Center fliers. She continues into the small library, with 
its musty, donated volumes. Here, students catalog 
the collection according to the system used in the 
Marxist Library and Resource Center in New York. 

Joelle's ideals are drawn from the tradition of 
leftist politics and community action that compris-
es the Center's philosophical core. She was raised in 
a progressive working-class family. "I learned to play the piano in a 
union hall. I remember making coffee on cold days and bringing it to 
the picketers, and boycotting Woolworth's when they didn't let blacks 
sit at the lunch counters." She participated in the 1963 March on 
Washington and ran New Haven's Angela Davis Bookstore in the early 
'70s. Joelle's time is now split between the Center (she is a board mem-
ber), the Communist Party (she is Connecticut Chairperson and one 
of seven National Secretaries) and her job as secretary at a local union. 

The beliefs that Joelle espouses permeate the conversations at the 
Center. As they repair the pipes, volunteers trade jibes about politicians' 
positive assessment of the economy. They know too many people who 
have not been lifred by the rising tide. Acknowledging economic 
improvement would be tantamount to admitting that capitalism might 
lead to peace, justice and prosperity. 

Though the Center is not officially affiliated with any political ide-
ology, its leanings are heavily leftist. "The People's Center has been part 
of every major struggle that has marked our country, including union-
ization and the desegregation of schools, jobs and sports," says Center 
President Al Marder, whose stories date mainly from the 1930s and 
'40s. The Center organized and played host to New Haven's first inter-
racial basketball team (the Redwings), its first interracial drama group 
(the Unity Players) and its first celebration of International Women's 
Day. The first production of Clifford Odets' Waiting for Lefty was a 
Center project, performed by the Unity Players with a Yale student 
director in 1938. Marder remembers that the city wouldn't allow the 
group to rent a school building because of the play's leftist content. 

Marder also recalls the many unionization campaigns of the peri-
od, in which student-supported Center activists worked with laborers 
from the automobile and meatpacking industries, as well as workers 
from what is now Local 35. When Joelle's generation started ele-
mentary school in the 1950s, Marder's generation was taking over 
the Center, participating in anti-lynching demonstrations and 
desegregation efforts. Marder recaJis the successful struggle to 
establish a night school to help working people earn degrees. 

Then, as now, Center activists neither flaunted nor denied 
their communist and socialist sympathies. 
Marder will emphasize the Cen-
ter's lack of political affiliation, but he 
is proud of its tradition of working for 
The McCarthy era brought fear, bomb threats and 
arrests to Center activists. "I remember stopping to drop 
things off for my father at the Whalley Avenue Jail when 
I was five," says Joe Taylor, as he rakes leaves in the 
Center's backyard. Taylor says he was practically born 
in the Center and continues to volunteer there. 

"There were people who killed themselves because 
of all this," he says, as other Center volunteers nod 
solemnly. Joelle, whose father's activism caused 
him to lose his job as a schoolteacher, remembers 
the anti-progressive climate just as vividly. "I didn't realize until I was an 
adult that no Girl Scout troop would accept me, and that's why my 
mother started her own troop," says JoeUe. She tells these anecdotes of 
childhood rejection as if they were disturbing but distant news blurbs, 
poignant examples of historical discrimination rather than stories of 
personal injury. 

As fears of communism subsided to a less hysterical pitch in the late 
1960s, the Center sponsored unionization efforts and helped workers 
fight employers including Yale-New Haven Hospital and New Haven 
schools. Center activists supported various Yale unionization drives and 
strikes by bringing coffee and lunch to strikers and providing an alter-
native classroom site during graduate student actions. Volunteers' recol-
lections of the 1970s cover everything from braving tear gas at the 1970 
New Haven murder trial of Black Panthers leader Bobby Seale to host-
ing pot luck dinners and picketing during the 1979 Winchester 
Firearms strike. "You meet good people on a picket line," says John 
Hiller, a Park Service worker. He is one of the Center's younger volun-
teers, but he still seems more like a father than a firebrand activist. The 
volunteers' graying, parental appearances con-
trast sharply with their stories of being 
dragged by police and wiping tear gas from 
friends' eyes. ***** 

The Center's next major struggle came 
after the building sustained major damage 
from serving as a daytime drop-in center for 
" the homeless (staffed partly by YHHAP 
members and the Law School Legal Aid Pro-
ject). A local real estate broker, an alder-
woman and others joined in a campaign to 
prevent the Center from getting a HUD grant 
to fix up the building. Joelle laughs when she 
recalls this group's efforts to "prove" she was a 
Communist. 'Td run for Congress on the 
Communist ticket several rimes," she says, 
smiling at the absurdity of the situation. 

Drawing on local support, the. Center ulti-
mately managed to win the funding in a vote 
by the Board of Aldermen. 

Friends hope that she might one day run 
as a Democrat, but Joelle has stuck fast to her 
chosen label through eight Congressional 
campaigns. "My beliefs come from my 
group," she says. "Why should I hide the 
name of it? We didn't make 'Communist' a 
bad word. Now the same thing's happening 
with 'liberal.' It doesn't matter what you call 
yourself. If someone wants to run a smear or 
fear campaign, they'll do it." Joelle's feelings of 
persecution clearly draw on personal experi-
ences-menacing cars and threatening phone 
calls. Her personal brand of politics neglects 
some of the more global reasons that commu-
nism was demonized in the United States. 

Despite JoeUe's experiences of isolation 
and discrimination, she maintains faith in 
community action and mass movements. "I 
believe that Communists are the greatest 
patriots in this country," she says, without 
offering a definition of patriotism. She contra-
dicts the image of the coup-hungry radical, 
saying. "A small group wouldn't stay in power 
anyway. We're about educating and organjz-
ing--<:hanging the future of our country, 
because this country needs to be changed fun-
damentally." While the rhetoric sounds lifted 
from 1930s propaganda, it remains current 
for Joelle. She cites an active Youth Commu-
nist League as proof that the movement still 
exists. "Look around you. The need is greater 
than ever. The movement has always been 



**Title: homegrown.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
homegrown." 
The ideals of Jodie's revolution and the 
ideals for which the Center works are not particularly shocking; 
mainstream politicians 
claim adherence to some of them. Even those 
that sound far-left seem to translate, at least in 
Jodie's mind, to creative community service 
and action rather than armed rebellion. "I 
believe in the equality of people. No person 
has the right to make gain for themselves at 
the expense of someone else. Everyone should 
be able to develop their gifts and talents. I 
believe resources should be distributed by 
work and by need, not by exploitative expropriation. I believe I have more in common 
with my working brother in other countries 
than with the president of GM or Ford 
because he happens to be American." 
Joelle's words sometimes sound canned 
and cribbed from Party documents. This 
makes some sense: she sees herself as continuing a hallowed tradition that still thrives and 
will soon catch on nationwide. She moves 
through the Center with comfort and ease, 
showing it off as if it were her own newly renovated home. "This was all handed down 
through the generations," says Joelle. "Everything is run by volunteers, so there's a continuity of vision and openness, but the programs vary with the needs of the movement 
and the volunteers." Recently, that volunteerism has included the Crisis Information 
Action Center, which led a successful campaign to extend the warning period for electricity shutdowns from three to ten days. 
Jodie's excitement over an extra seven 
days before power shut-offs makes it even 
harder to see her as a leader of the revolution, 
or as part of a movement which is in full 
force. Pride in small steps towards the larger 
goal of economic justice may provide the 
energy to continue the fight, but the degree of 
pride in these small steps attests to the steep 
uphill battle that Joelle and her fellow leftists 
face. Still, as she heads out of the Center after 
a long day, Jodie's smile is less apologetic and 
more confident while she speaks of her successful campaigns. She dons a heavy coat, 
preparing for the cold outside.


**Title: White Bred, White Trash**
**Author: Anya E. Liftig**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

FRESHMAN YEAR I HAD AN AFFINITY FOR WONDER BREAD. I 
loved to rip the center out of entire loaves of the stuff, roll the 
dough into tiny balls and chow down. While indulging this 
strange habit in the company of my roommate in the Calhoun 
dining hall one Friday evening, she glared at me and said, "PWT." 
"Excuse me?" I asked, mouth stuffed with Wonder Bread balls. 
"Poor White Trash," she spat back, obviously annoyed by my 
bizarre behavior. 

Over the next few months, the letters PWT came in and out of my 
life. They popped up on the tongues of academics, in sociology classes 
and on television. Her playful insult began to bother me in a way that I 
had never noticed before. Rather than express my discomfort, I was 
silent. The term PWT has not disappeared from my life, and I still often 
remain silent. In fact, the letters PWT come up more frequently these 
days: said in passing at meetings, at luncheons, in casual conversations 
with close friends. 

Despite my suburban Jewish upbringing in affluent Westport, 
Connecticut, my background makes me "poor white trash." My mother, born deep in the hills of East Kentucky, is what most would call a 
bona fide hillbilly. She didn't see a television until she was 18, had her 
birth certificate signed by an illiterate midwife with an "X" and educated herself by reading all of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. She and seven 
other people lived in a three-room house with a tin roof. She was poor. 
She had no shoes. Her cousins had babies at age 13. There were two 
sets of marriages in the same generation between related families, resulting in my mom having nine double first cousins. By blood these 
cousins are almost brothers and sisters. 

My mother was the valedictorian of her high school class and made 
her way out of the holler with a scholarship to a northern university 
and a two year stint in the Peace Corps. It was during this time that she 
met my father. She was trying to educate the world, he was dodging the 
draft. They moved up north to be near better schools and New York 
City. Over the next 27 years, my mom's accent became almost indistinguishable from those of the yuppies who shopped on Main Street. She 
could schmooze with the best of them and fight for parking spaces like 
a true New York native. But despite my mom's "Yankee-fication," each 
Sunday morning when she speaks to my grandmother her accent reappears; the crops and pick-up trucks and my cousins' basketball games 
are the subjects of her conversations. Each Sunday morning on the 
phone, I also try to sink back into a Kentucky home I have never really 
known. 

I had a very different relationship with my Kentucky family—all 63 
double second cousins—before I came to Yale. I visited every summer. We would swim, taunt the craw dads, make dandelion chains. 
We would collect locust shells and snake skins. We traipsed through the 
strip-mined hills, in and around lakes owned by my family for seven 
generations. No one cared about school and when I was there I didn't 
either. What mattered was who would fill the inflatable pool with warm 
water and who would entertain us while we shucked corn out by the 
creek. We were all constantly covered with bee stings and chigger bites 
and calamine lotion. I knew I cared about academics, but catching 
lightning bugs at twilight with my cousins, nothing really mattered but 
our blood ties. 

One night, the summer before I came to Yale, this all changed. I 
was shelling peas on the porch with my sister when my aunt yelled to 
my father, "How much does Yale cost a year?" My father said, "About 
30,000 bucks." My cousins stared at me in disbelief. At that instant, I 
was no longer the quirky cousin from Connecticut, but the epitome of 
the rich elite. It broke my heart that night, but by the time I had been 
at Yale for three weeks, I wanted to be nothing but the rich elite girl 
they perceived me to be. 

Freshman year, I knew how to talk the talk. I could banter and 
make judgments about which New York private schools were the 
most prestigious. I knew which city kids performed in the opera 
and the ballet. I memorized the names of the coolest clubs and bars and 
although I had never been to any of them, I acted like I sure as hell had. 
My own life in Westport had been dotted with the typical suburban 
rites of passage: private dance lessons, four years of cosmetic orthodon-
ture, sweet 16. I actively tried to fit the affluent but relatively normal 
world of my hometown into the glow of New York society lights. 

I wanted to reinvent myself as the sophisticate who knew how to 
party. At Yale, it was cool to be educated, to care about John Keats and 
the definition of the sublime and the problems of modern China. I 
tried very hard that year to memorize as many names, definitions and 
theories as I could, just to hold my own in classes. It was, in many ways, 
a year of playing intellectual name games. My Kentucky cousins 
became slightly embarrassing, as did the innocence of my summer 
experiences in the mountains. Although my roommate was joking that 
night in Calhoun, her comment bit deeply into what I thought was a 
well-hidden insecurity about my intelligence and whether or not I was 
qualified to be at Yale. 

In many ways, the past three years at Yale have been about trying to 
reclaim those roots that I so arduously shunned. There has been pain in 
my life in the past few years, and coming to terms with that pain has 
made me want to return to those warm Kentucky nights. It's taken me 
a long time to learn to stop playing intellectual games with everyone 
else and work with the unique perspective that my diverse family background has given me. But, in coming back to my family I have been 
forced to realize the great personal distance that exists between us. I 
don't know much about their lives. They don't know much about mine. 
Even though I am often not able to verbalize it, I am fiercely defensive 
of my Kentucky family. Yet, Kentucky is a part of me with which I can't 
even claim to have been involved for the better part of three years. 

What I can claim to have been very involved with in the last 
three years is my Jewish heritage. My interest in this aspect 
of my life is due to a comment my roommate from Ohio 
made during the second hour of freshman year. She handed me a piece 
of paper the Slifka Center had taped to my door and said, "It's runny, 
I've never lived with a Jew before." I had never really thought of myself 
as a Jew before. I always identified with that side of the family more, 
but religion was more cultural and often left unspoken. It was and is 
difficult to reconcile the conflicting cultures that my parents have raised 
me to identify with. While I definitely have a sense of both sides, only 
engaging half of my identity at any time is difficult. I can never go to 
Kentucky without thinking about Judaism and I can never sit down at 
a seder table without thinking about Kentucky. 

Comments like those that my roommates made freshman year scar 
deeply, if only because I can never claim to be wholly one label or the 
other. The dichotomy is in some ways an evil personal license that 
allows me to remain silent when I want to stand up for my family. I can 
always play the chameleon and pretend that on one day I am not Jewish 
and on another day I am not Kentuckian. But to engage in such a game 
defeats any attempt to reconcile the two. Instead, I shall continue to be 
both the intelligent Jewish coed and the dutiful Kentucky daughter, 
playing each role to its appropriate audience.



**Title: A New Spin on Spinoza**
**Author: Jason D'Cruz**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A New Spin on Spinoza 
Steven Smith Rethinks the "Jewish Question" 
by Jason D'Cruz 
Spinoza, Uberallsm, and the Question of Jewl ... Identity, by Steven B. 
Smith (Yale University Press, 1997), pp. 270. 
(( E
cRAsEz 
L'INFAME!" 
voLTAIRE's 
renowned exhortation to "crush 
the infamy" represents a monu-
mental campaign in the history of Western 
civilization against superstition and the power 
of the Church. The phrase is the harbinger of 
modernity, the emancipation of the individ-
ual, the ascendancy of liberalism and the tri-
umph of reason over fear: We must ask our- · 
selves, however, whether these ideas are still 
ascendant with the current resurgence of new 
age religions, including Christian "Promise 
Keepers," Hindu nationalism, Islamic funda-
mentalism, the Christian Coalition, the CCC 
and ~e Yale Five. Did the Enlightenment's 
cold rationalism lead us to a state of self-denial 
that we are only now realizing and rebelling 
against? Could it be that the idealistic project 
of secular, rational, universal self-improve-
ment turned out to be a shiny nothing? 

Steven Smith, Yale political science pro-
fessor and Branford College master, addresses 
these questions in his new book, Spinoza, Lib-
eralism, and the Question of jewish ldmtity. 
Smith traces the origins of modern liberal 
political philosophy to a source often ignored: 
seventeenth century Jewish thinker Baruch 
Spinoza. Although Spinoza's ethics, and to a 
lesser extent his metaphysics, are still studied, 
his political theories have been widely 
ignored. Smith argues that Spinoza's contribu-
tions to the canon of political philosophy are 
essential to understanding the development of 
our thought about the relationship between 
religion and the state. 

Smith positS that the overwhelming victo-
ry of liberalism has rendered us unable to see 
the complexity of the theologico-political 
problem. For this reason we must look to the 
past to understand the present situation: "Pre-
cisely because the founders of modernity did 
not live in a world shaped by the separation of 
church and state and an ethic of toleration, 
they give us a window on how we have come 
to arrive at our own self-understanding." 
Because we tend to take the separation of 
church and state as a given, we cannot easily 
see its ramifications. 

Spinoza's thinking on religion was influ-
enced by his own experiences: in 1656, at the 
age of 24, he was excommunicated by the 
elders of his synagogue for reasons of which 
scholars are still unsure. Many of his readers 
find that Spinoza's persecution led to his 
renowned passion for secrecy and his isolation 
was a source of ethical and political insight. 
Much of Spinoza's work is deeply critical of 
Judaism, characterizing it as legalistic, particu-
laristic and full of divine promises that lead to 
passivity and weakness. On the other hand, 
Spinoza characterizes Jesus as a profound moral 
philosopher, and Christianity as a religion fur-
ther advanced in the progression of reason. As a 
result, many interpreters of Spinoza see him as 
a self-hating Jew motivated by revenge. 

Smith disagrees with this interpretacion, 
arguing that since Spinoza was unable to cri-
tique Christianity because of the power of the 
clerics, he had to take a more circuitous route. 
By contrasting Judaism with Christianity, 
Spinoza was outwardly playing to the preju-
dices of the time, while insidiously advocating 
a civil religion based on reason rather than 
Scripture. This tactic seems rather Machiavel-
lian, but Smith counters that it is "constitutive 
of Spinoza's liberalism." Smith's argument is a 
little murky to say the least, and is never made 
fully clear in the book. Surely secrecy and 
duplicity are not "constitutive ofSpinoza's lib-
eralism"? This point aside, Smith's reading is 
sensitive and perceptive, showing clearly that 
Spinoza was not a rabid anti-Semite. 

~e main thrust of Spinoza's Theo/ogico-
1 Political Treatise is the emancipation of 
philosophy from theology, of the civil state 
SpinO'la Ulmlism. and the Otmtion 
of Jewish Identity 
STEYEI I. SMITH 
from 
ecclesiastical 
power, 
and 
of the 
autonomous individual conscience from pro-
scriptive · religion. On chiefly naturalistic 
grounds, Spinoza defends democracy as the 
best regime to achieve the ends of toleration, 
personal autonomy and self-formation. While 
to our modern ears these sound like inherently 
positive and innocuous ideas, Smith shows that 
they can have very different connotations when 
framed in terms of the "Jewish Question." 

The "Jewish Question" refers to a long-
standing debate in the Enlightenment as to 
whether Jews should be granted the same civil 
liberties as "ordinary" citizens. Smith argues 
that Jews represented the "Quintessential 
Other," a community that separated itself 
from the rest of society with a very distinct set 
of customs and laws. Jews could be welcomed 
into the modern civil state only if they would 
abdicate their traditions. Indeed, the true test 
of the modern state would be its capacity to 
assimilate the Jews. lit what Smith calls a 
"Faustian bargain," the Jews would gain toler-
ation only by losing their identity. 

"\VJhile Smith's ideas may seem rather 
W abstract to those not accustomed to 
the jargon of political theorists, his work is rel-
evant to current societal trends, especially the 
resurgence of charismatic and fundamentalist 
religious groups. These groups, often empha-
sizing a personal relationship with a savior or 
a certain "spiritual insight," appeal to a sense 
of awe, symbolism, sanctity and divine mys-


--- Page 29 ---

tery wholly within the secular ideal. 

The return to spirituality is a reaction 
against the idea of a ~tural melting pot in 
favor of a society based on diversity and multi-
culturalism. Smith points out that the idea of 
a melting pot is not at all neutral. Although in 
theory the melting pot results in a composite 
of the highest ideals from different cultures, in 
practice it often means conformity to Protes-
tant secularism. One need only look at Yale's 
many ethnic and cultural organizations to see 
discontent with the philosophy of the melting 
pot. On a national level, religious leaders such 
as Louis Farrakhan draw on racial identity as a 
source of self-esteem. Assimilation is now seen 
not as a liberating force but as an essential 
ingredient of patriarchy and domination. 

Smith points out that because Spinoza 
lived in sect-ridden seventeenth century Hol-
land, he did not see identity politics as a 
source of emancipation, but rather as "a 
means of imposing narrow orthodoxies and 
conformity." He sought to transcend a system 
where one was identified solely by one's reli-
gion. In order to understand the reaction to 
the Enlightenment Smith shows us that we 
must understand its o..rigins. To properly eval-
uate the causes of the current religious resur-
gence and the parallel renaissance of identity 
politics, we have to understand that the liber-
alism we have been taught to regard as neutral 
and innocuous is actually fraught with reli-
gious and political tensions. As Smith puts it, 
liberalism only extends toleration once we 
have rendered ourselves tolerable. 

Smith's analysis of modern political move-
ments is informed by a keen sense of history. 
But his insistence on framing the entire iden-
tity problem in modern politics in terms of 
the "Jewish Question" seems anachronistic. 
Moreover, Smith's book is not a light read. 
Sections on scriptural interpretation or the 
metaphysical unity of substance may discour-
age readers less dedicated to the subject mat-
ter. The work, however, provides an unexpect-
ed insight into sources of modernity and the 
various motivations stemming from the "Jew-
ish Question" that helped to create the liberal 
ideal of toleration. For this reason, the Spin-
ozist epigram to Smith's book seems most 
appropriate: "All things excellent are difficult 
as they are rare." 

laJ 
Jason D'Cruz, a sophomore in Ezra Stiles Cot-
kgt, is on the staff ofTNJ.


**Title: What I Saw at the Revolution**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 30**

What I Saw at the Revolution 
Our intrepid reporter uncovers ex istential consp iracies 
while trying to participate in a United Farm W orkers march. 
by Ian Blecher 

T
HE FOLLOWING IS A SERIES OF NEGATIONS, WHICH, 
oddly enough, evolves into a narrative and even con-
tains a small moral. This is the story of a story not told, of 
a rally not quite attended, of people unable to speak to 
one another, of a union that doesn't (yet) exist, and of 
toilets nowhere to be found. 

The strawberry industry, especially Driscoll Growers, is 
booming these days. It's not as difficult as you might think to 
make it in this business. Just listen to this fabulous offer from 
the Strawberry Workforce: for the incredibly low price of $7,999.99 
a year, your very own worker will stoop 12 hours a day, inhale carcino-
genic pesticides, and drink brackish water. And don't worry: there's no 
union included. If he tries to start one, simply return him for a full 
refund. High turnover and a low retirement age keep the industry 
anonymous and healthy. Those workers who want to speak out wcin't 
be speaking English; most of them can't even pronounce "Driscoll." 

Some of us in the consumer sector have begun to wonder whether 
cheap, delicious strawberries are worth the degradation of human life. 
To assuage our guilt, a friend and I drove down to Broadway's most 
spectacular show last week: a United Farm Workers solidarity march on 
behalf of strawberry pickers, led by Dolores Huerta and Gloria 
Steinem, from 96th to 72nd Street. 

By the rime we parked and caught an overstuffed subway to our 
destination, we were an hour late, with no rally in sight. The road 
wasn't even blocked off. A few cops were standing around smirking, 
proud to be keeping Broadway safe from mavericks like us. We were 
ready to give up and find a museum when the parade thundered down 
the sidewalk and enveloped us. In seconds, we were distributing pam-
phlets, wearing badges and holding signs. Close to 100 people marched 
below a bright blue Yale flag, singing, "We are the union I The mighty, 
mighty union! I Everywhere we go I People want to know I Who we 
are I So we tell them: I We are the union ... " On the fringes, stone-faced 
old communists flashed us the P~opk's ~~ko/ World. Displays spread 
out on both Banks featured ancient muckraking and conspiracy revela-
tions in Grenada and Nicaragua. Employees at fruit stands gave us the 
thumbs-up and leather-clad bikers honked. 

I was actually beginning to feel like "the unjon" when there, on 
80th Street, shimmering in the heat mirage of the horizon, stood the 
Cats of gourmet food, Zabars. Even amidst the din of leftist chants, 
Zabars's clarion public address system rang out: "Special on smoked 
salmon! Special on boccancini! Special on Guylian chocolate!" 

Through the window, I saw troves of rare olive oils and grizzled cheeses 
framing tables brimming with free samples. Throngs of satisfied cus-
tomers squeezed their way to the registers in the front window to pay 
for their booty. 

We figured we'd buy some hand-made food products 
and use :!if executive-quality washroom in time to join the 
tail end of the procession. Right away we snagged a 
ready-made snak-pak: fresh mozzarella balls soalcing in 
sun-dried tomato sauce. I paid while my friend found 
the bathroom. The parade passed by as I sampled a few 
crackers and some tangy goat cheese, ignoring the "take 
one, please" looks of Zabars managers, who asked if they 
could help me between Spanish directives barked at the line 
of beleaguered cashiers. Seven "''m just waiting for someones" later, 
I realized the UFW marchers were probably already in Jersey. I asked an 
olive oil representative where the bathroom was in ambitious though 
broken Spanish. "There is no bathrpom, sir," he said. 

Egad! It all made sense. First the strawberry fields, now Zabars: cos-
mically connected by a mysterious lack of plumbing facilities. Cus-
tomers and workers, our plights had at last converged. 

But if using the bathroom in Zabars was an existential impossibili-
ty, where was my friend? I ran upstairs, aisles of high-priced cookware 
flying by like so many parade marchers-marchers whose parade I was 
missing more and more with every gelato machine I passed. I paged 
her. I asked two stock boys whether they'd seen her: "No." Finally, a 
"take one, please" manager said, "You're going to have to leave, sir. 
You've been here too long without buying anything." He must have 
seen my UFW badge and mistaken me for a subversive conspirator. 

I threw down my mozzarella indignantly, walked outside and 
kicked down Broadway, looking for other lefr-wing stragglers. Eight 
blocks later, I found the march, congealed on 72nd Street. Someone 
was finishing a speech denouncing Driscoll, and everyone was holding 
hands. My friend was there too, next to the big Yale sign. We sang 
some garbled folk songs, and talked about informing the world about 
strawberry workers, since the Nau Yl>rk Times doesn't write about these 
sorts of rallies. 

In the end, the march became a sort of free-floating negation, a con-
tagion that seemed to spread to everyone who involves himself in the 
strawberry industry. I didn't read about it in the paper. I spent the entire 
day trying to talk to people who couldn't underscand me about bath-
rooms that weren't there and a friend I couldn't find. And in an infinite-
ly more extreme way, strawberry workers deal with the same sorts of 
frustrations every day. They fight with growers, people who can't even 
understand them, about the non-existence of perquisites most people 
won't talk about: benefits, security, day care, t<:>ilets and unions. 

So if you want to help strawberry workers, don't eat Driscoll 
fruit. You can buy the gourmet version at Zabars during the next 
illWm~. 

g 
/on Blecher is o sophomore in Davenport College. 



**Title: Print and Mail Services**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Print and 
Mail 
Services 
155 Whitney Avenue 
432-6560 
~X : 432-6274 
EMAIL..: AFDL..ETIJI@Ya leADS 
149 York Street 
432-2679 
ALSO OFF£RING 
Full color copies 
Course materials 
Complete mail service 
Graphic design 
Affordable Copies 
Quick turnaround 
High quality 
t\\S -
::,.~ 
~ -
Pickup and 
\;,1 
delivery 
Offset printing 
Optical character recognition 
Network accessibility


**Title: World Premiere**
**Author: C.B. Coleman**
**Page number(s): 32**

~orld l?renniere 
z 
0 < 
ro 
.,.__.. 
by C.B. Coleman 
directed by Evan Yionoulis 
April 30 May 23, 1998 

