Publication date: February 25, 1983
Volume: 15
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: W. Hampton Sides
- Designer: Matthew Bartholomew
- Business Manager: Barbara Burrell
- Managing Editor: Jim Lowe
- Production Manager: Hilary Callahan
- Associate Business Managers: Darren Gersh, Jane Kamensky, Robert Moore
- Associate Editors: Geoff Hayward, Paul Hofheinz, Morris Panner, Lelia Wardwell
- Associate Production Managers: Alex Savich, Christianna Williams
- Staff: Tina Kelley, Katie Kressman, Tom McQuinn, Mike Otsuka, Laura Pappano, Peter Phleger, Lauren Rabin, Marilynn Sager, Vanessa Sciarra, Katherine Scobey, Sally Sloan, Lisa Yun


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment - Renata Gallagher
- NewsJournal
- Major stories
- Sports
- Theatre
- DASTOOB - Geoff Hayward
- A Ben Franklin in blue jeans - Laura Pappano


**Title: Comment**
**Author: Renata Gallagher**
**Page number(s): 4**

A challenge to the post-feminists
A redefinition of feminism and its role in our time.


**Title: NewsJournal**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

Have football, will travel
Stellar fellows


**Title: Major stories**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: Corporate jocks**
**Author: Jack Bishop**
**Page number(s): 12**

The ROTC tradeoff
Yale's complicated past involvement with the military makes ROTC's return a question of principles and priorities as well as cash.


**Title: The Art School on trial**
**Author: Lelia Wardwell**
**Page number(s): 16**

In the light of a recent New York exhibit, students and alumni talk about the Yale School of Art-a school which is clearly not for everyone.


**Title: Another New Haven**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 24**

Liz Shaw's alternative tour brings people face-to-face with poverty and shows them ways to help.


**Title: DASTOOB**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 28**

It's just six men, six women, a dozen tubes off a Mack truck, and an unvarnished lust for victory.


**Title: A Ben Franklin in blue jeans**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): (Not specified)**

Ed Meyer of Stage Lighting Rental Service is an integral part of a theatre world that never stops.


**Feminism and its discontents**
**Author: Renata Gallagher**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I do not want women to have power over 
men, but over themselves. 
-Mary Wollstonecraft 

For years I took a dim view of 
feminism . I considered myself an in-
dividual first and a woman second. I 
intended to succeed in my chosen field 
on the basis of my merits as an in-
dividual, and it made little difference 
to me whether that field had tradi-
tionally been open to women or not. I 
was not interested in preparing the 
way for women to follow me, nor was I 
particularly interested in the struggles 
of those women who had preceded me. 
I expected to encounter difficulties jug-
gling a career and a family, but I felt 
that I would be capable of handling 
these. I was concerned with my future 
and my needs, not with those of wo-
men in general. 

Women in our circumstances may 
easily adopt this attitude. With the ad· 
mission of wqmen to Yale College 13 
years ago, the facilities here that had 
been available only to men were op· 
ened to us. Our generation of women 
is fully integrated into college life. 
Female undergraduates participate in 
most facets of Yale and at many levels. 
It seems possible to reject feminism as 
obsolete. 

But my own feelings have been 
changed, not strengthened, by my ex· 
periences at Yale. My view of Yale is 
colored by the years I spent at another 
college. Bryn Mawr was founded in 
the late 19th century because there was 
an urgent need to provide women with 
the educational opportunities that 
schools like Yale provided for men. As 
a women's college, Bryn Mawr was 
forced to prove itself to men who 
claimed that the students would 
become invalids. Some urged that the 
school be dosed. These "authorities" 
believed that women could not and 
should not be educated as men were. 
Bryn Mawr responded by setting stan· 
dards that were at least as high as those 
of the men's colleges. The outstanding 
achievements of numerous graduates, 
together with empirical evidence of the 
increased physical strength of Bryn 
Mawr students, disproved the college's 
challengers. Bryn Mawr's dual com-
mitment to academic excellence and to 
the education of women persists to this 
day. 

It is accepted as fact at Bryn M awr 
that women can be intelligent, ar· 
ticulate and multi-talented. The 
history of the school was shaped by 
such womer.; 
the administration, 
the faculty and the students provide 
ample additional proof. Among these 
women I found role models, mentors 
and friends . At a women's school more 
women learn to take charge and to 
speak for themselves. M y classmates 
and I took for granted that women can 
be leaders and that each should do 
whatever her talents allow. There are 
certainly talented and assertive women 
at Yale, but they have succeeded in an 
environment defined largely by men. 

At Bryn Mawr I felt part of a continu· 
ing tradition of bright a nd determined 
women. Until I left I did not realize 
.how supportive that tradition can be. 

My decision to transfer to Yale was a 
diflicu1t one, dictated by a variety of 
factors. I was warned that I would en· 
counter male chauvinism , but I have 
found less than I expected. I am more ,
disturbed by the 
lack 
of female 
chauvinism. There are many extraor-
dinary women at Yale, but few seem to 
identify strongly with other women. 
Some appear unaware of the ac· 
complishments and potential of 
women. Our presence at Yale is the 
legacy of others who had to fight for 
opportunities in ways that we do not, 
but we know little of their efforts. There 
has not been enough time to establish a 
tradition of women at Yale that we 
may feel part of, and there are few 
traditions in the formal sense that bind 
us together. 

Some Bryn Mawrters may scoff at 
step-sings or Lantern Night, but these 
are part of a shared experience that 
unites students past and present. Bryn 
Mawrters return for Lantern Night the 
way Old Blues come back tor football 
games. There is plenty of tradition at 
Yale, but most of it involves Yale's con-
tribution to the ranks of the men who 
have shaped this country. There is lit· 
tle with which women can feel comfort-
able. Th,. formal traoitions that still ., 
dominate Yale-secret societies, sing· 
ing groups and 
Mory's- are 
no~· 
open to women, but they are still insn·


tutions developed by men and for men. 
We have yet to establish our own tradi-
tions. Hut even a change in th1s situa-
tion will not be enough as long as the 
faculty and the administration of the 
university remain 
predominantly 
male. Our greatest disadvantage here 
is that there are few women outside our 
own age group to whom we can turn 
for advice and support. 

The lack of role models, mentors 
and traditions for women at Yale has 
made me realize the strength I derived 
from those at Bryn Mawr. What was 
taken for granted there is not made ex-
plicit at Yale. I feel bound to prove that 
women do have an enormous range of 
capabilities. 

I 
rejected feminism 
because I felt it asked me to be a 
woman first and an individual second. 
I could not accept that demand. But I 
no longer feel that it is possible for me 
to consider myself an individual first 
and foremost. I am a woman and an 
individual, and to separate the two, to 
emphasize one at the expense of the 
other, is a distortion. I was admitted to 
Yale as an individual, but as a woman-
( feel somewhat out of place here. M y 
experiences 
as an 
individual are 
shaped by the fact that I am female. 

I will always have difficulty labeling 
myself a feminist , but terminology is 
not important to me. It is important 
that I not lose sight of the fact that I am 
a woman and of the responsibility that 
entails. I must continue to build on the 
foundations laid by others. We are no 
longer confronted by many of the 
problems that faced previous genera-
tions, but there are more subtle 
challenges. We must not stop proving 
ourselves now that we are at Yale. The 
struggle to get here is over. But the 
struggle to become established has just 
begun. If we neglect this respon.sibility, 
we deny the tradition that brought us 
this far, and we cheat ourselves. 

Rnt~UQ C. Gallagher is a senior in Berkeley. 
The opinions expressed in this section are 
those of the individual writers. Tlte Nnv jo~~or~UJI 
c:ncourag« leuers to-the editor and comment 
on Yale and New Haven issues. Write to 
Mor-ris Panoc:r, Editorials, 3432 Yale Station, 
New Haven, CT-06520. or contact him at 
+32-2995. All leuers for publication must 
i.ncludc: address and signature. 


**Corporate Jocks?**
**Author: Scott Bessent**
**Page number(s): 6**

Seniors have been known to wait in 
line at Career Advisory (CAPS) for 
hours to get an interview, but recent-
ly one company turned the tables. 
Procter & Gamble's Sales Division, 
which recruited here earlier this 
month, has long operated on the 
theory that students who row, throw 
or run for a varsity team are the kind 
of people who can make a good sale. 
And so, the makers of such house-
hold notables as Crest, Orange Crush 
and Tide have once again solicited 
student recommendations directly 
from the Eli coaches. "Over 20 years 
ago a Yale ex-varsity player decided 
that a sound body would make for 
sound peace of mind in the P&G 
sales," explains Ted Noyt·s, director 
of CAPS and surrogate father to 
Yale's buckling business magnates. 
"He thought that participation in col-
lege athletics would give an in-
dividual the competitive edge needed 
for P&G." 

But how many new Yale lettermen 
and women will fill the ranks of 
P&G's Sales Division next year? Not 
many. Maybe it was the rumor that 
swept the country last year that Satan 
worshippers controlled the company 
(the P&G logo with 13 stars was ade-
quate proof for some), or maybe it 
was simply that the corporate hea-d-
quarters are located in Cincinnati. 
But for whatever reason, the Elis 
haven't been nocking to P&G as they 
did in previous years. 

Several overtly competitive athletes 
were pleased that their coaches had 
nominated them for interviews, but 
most of them didn't take the Head & 
Shoulders manufacturer too seriously. 
"I just used it for a practice inter-
view," says one letterman, explaining 
that he dreaded the idea of living in 
the Midwest. But the rumor about 
devil worshippers didn't deter me at 
all." 


**Stellar fellows**
**Author: Lauren Rabin**

Breakfast with Steinbrenner. Lunch 
with Liv. Tea with Prime Minister 
Lee and dinner with Dreyfuss. These 
celebrities, together with Paul 
Newman, Gloria Steinem, Isaac 
Asimov, Norman Mailer and 
numerous others, comprise a star-
studded list of Yale residential college 
associate fellows. 

Although some, like George Bush 
(Davenport), Dick Cavett 
(Saybrook), Gerald Ford (Timothy 
Dwight), and former Supreme Court 
Justice Potter Stewart (Berkeley), are 
Yale alumni, more often the; affilia-
tion grows out of a personal relation-
ship with the master, or simply a visit 
to the college. 

Each college m ay take on as many 
as five new associate fellows each 
year. "Most of us treat it like a club, 
usually waiting for someone to resign 
before making a new appointment," 
says Berkeley Master Robin Winks, 
who is also Chairman of the Council 
of Masters. 

Most fellows make generous finan-
cial gifts every year. Others, like 
Prime M inister ·Lee Kwan-Yew of 
Singapore and Kin g Baudouin and 
Queen Fabiola of the Belgians, ex-
tend their hospitality to visiting col-
lege members. Many fellows visit on 
occasion . Calhoun Master Davie 
Napier believes that "most of them 
truly value the association and would 
be disappointed if they were dropped 
from the rolls." 

However, the relationship often 
wanes, as in the case of L iv Ullmann 
whose Calhoun affiliation was the 
result "of her friendship with a 
previous master. "We probably 
should do more to make sure that 
these associate fellows want to main-
tain their affiliation at the end of 
their five year terms," Napier admits. 

Winks recently wrote Senator George 
McGovern, who was appointed in the 
midst of his presidential campaign 
and has since, "done nothing for us 
whatsoever." The letter reminded the 
senator of the responsibility which ac-
companies his Berkeley fellowship. 
"That's usually all it takes," says 
Winks, who believes that the fellows' 
apathy often stem s from their lack of 
familiarity with the college system . 
"Sometimes they just don't know how 
they can help us," he explains. 

Not all associate fellows are world 
renowned. Some, like Berkeley's 
William Zimmermann, are local 
celebrities. Zimmermann, 86, is the 
oldest ticket-taker at the Yale Bowl. 
The father of a Berkeley graduate, 
Zimmermann often ate a few meals 
in the college, p rompting several 
students to ask Winks to name him 
an associate fellow. H e happily 
agreed and led Zim mermann into a 
dining hall full of cheering Berkeley 
students. He now faithfully attends 
fellows' meetings, and charges his 
meals at the exclusive "Berkeley 
C lub." 

design, Tom McQuillen 



**Title: Have football, will travel**
**Author: Dan Gersh**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Have football, will travel 
What do Zimbabwe and Ireland have 
in common? Internal conflicts, 
violent histories and the Yale Rugby 
Club, which visited the African na-
tion two years ago and will travel to 
Ireland this spring break. 

"We didn't know what we were get-
ting into," said captain Paul Carbery 
'83, of the trip to Zimbabwe, then 
Rhodesia. "We were told that we 
would play two white teams, two 
black teams, and one mixed one. We 
played only one team with one black 
player, and he was only a token." 

The group went to Africa as cor-
porate representatives of Union Car-
bide, which sponsored them. They 
stayed in first class hotels and 
"palatial" country homes. 

The Yale team was the first foreign 
group to play in Zimbabwe in 15 
years, and they played some of the 
best teams in the country. "In one 
game we played a team with five in-
ternationals on it," said coach Scott 
Kelso. The team learned a great deal 
about rugby, but couldn't beat the 
world-class teams they faced. 

Kelso sees the Ireland trip as 
another chance for the team to learn 
from more experienced players. Most 
Americans do not have a chance to 
play rugby until college. "A large part 
of my activity is teaching the basics," 
said Kelso, who played for the U.S. 
Rugby team from 1973-76, and now volun-
teers his time to the club. Although it 
finished the fall season with a 10-3 
record with victories over Harvard, 
Princeton, and Brown, the club may 
still find international standards dif-
ficult to meet. 

In Ireland the team will stay most-
ly with players in Derry, Kelso's 
home town. In its search for a spon.: 
sor the.club wrote to 150 U.S. com-
panies doing business in Ireland. 
Labatt's Beer has helped by sponsor-
ing the weekly Rugby N ight at the 
Anchor Bar, but the club members 
will have to pay all their expenses 
which cannot be covered by fund-
raising. 

"The wonderful thing about rugby 
football is that it's the only sport 
played by all Irishmen, regardless of 
their religion," said Kelso. T he team 
will travel through both northern and 
southern Ireland. On the last day of 
the tour, after playing a Dublin club, 
the Yale footballers will go to 
Lansdowne Road to watch a team of 
Irishmen play the English national 
team. 

"We're going to a troubled 
country," said Kelso. "We learned a 
lot about the relationship between 
blacks and whites in Zimbabwe, and 
we'll learn a lot about the relationship 
among people of different religious 
persuasions in Ireland. But mostly 
we'll learn a lot about rugby."


**Title: The ROTC tradeoff**
**Author: Jack Bishop**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

"What ROTC and the American government 
do to the Vietnamese and to the black people 
of this country are not academic questions. 
We demand the ROTC be tctally abolished 
at Yale." 

These harsh words appeared 14 years 
ago in an SDS (Students for a Dem-
ocratic Society) policy statement only 
two months before the Yale faculty 
decided to strip ROTC (Reserve O f-
ficer Training Corps) of academic 
standing. Throughout the Ivy League 
faculties were voting to del}y ROTC 
programs the academic credit they had 
enjoyed for decades. During the tur-
bulent year of 1969, Yale's ROTC 
unit, the oldest in the nation, was 
essentially killed. 

As anti-war 
feelings 
subsided 
ROTC slowly made its way back onto 
Ivy League campuses. At the Universi-
ty of Pennsylvania, Cornell and MIT, 
where ROTC never left, both Army 
and Navy ROTC are offered. At Har-
vard over 70 students, the most in a 
decade, now participate in an ROTC 
program through MIT. Princeton of-
fers 
Army ROTC 
as an extra-
curricular activity. But ROTC has not 
returned to Yale since it left in the ear-
ly 
1970s. 

A 
few 
students train 
elsewhere, but essentially Yale has 
divorced itself from the military. 

One of the few Yale students · who 
train elsewhere is TO junior Rob 
Morrow. Morrow completed his first 
two years of ROTC training over the 
two summers prior to attending Yale. 
For two more years, Morrow traveled 
once a week to Bridgeport and once a 
month to Storrs, making- a car a neces-
sity to complete his training . 

But aside from the matter of in-
convenience to students, the issue of 
ROTC at Yale raises interesting ques-
tions about the nature of a liberal arts 
institution and Yale's role in society. 

There is also the question of financial 
aid. ROTC students receive a monthly 
stipend of $100, and many also receive 
full tuition scholarships. With sources 
of financial aid drying up and govern-
ment loans becoming harder to obtain, 
ROTC is now a logical choice for 
many students across the country. Will 
Yale have to sacrifice some of its inde-
pendence in order to secure financial 
aid money which enables lower and 
middle income students to attend? 

While many people argue that Yale 
should once again have a unit, Yale's 
complicated past involvement with 
ROTC makes its return a question of 
principles and priorities as well as cash. 

A volatile history 

In 1916 the Army chose Yale as the site 
of the first ROTC unit in the nation. 
With an impend ing -war and the need 
for trained officers steadily increasing, 
the ROTC was designed to commis-
sion young men into the military while 
allowing them first to attend college. 
Througn ROTC the services hoped to 
attract well-educated officers, the so-
called "civilian soldiers" who would 
have knowledge in the humanities as 
well as expertise in military strategy. 

By 1926 the Navy had opened an 
ROTC unit on campus, establishing 
Yale as one of the foremost suppliers of 
civilian soldiers. 

During the late 1960s relations be-
tween Yale and ROTC became in-
creasingly strained. The problem of 
giving Yale credit for ROTC courses 
which had plagued the program since 
its inception finally was resolved in the 
1969 
faculty 
vote which stripped 
ROTC of its academic standing. The 
year before, the faculty had lowered 
the number of courses needed to 
graduate from 40 to 36. With this 
lightened workload, they thought that 
students interested in ROTC could 
train on their own time. By a 4-1 
margin the faculty voted to change 
ROTC's status to an extracurricular 
activity without credit. They also 
denied the military officers who taught 
these courses the professorial rank 
they previously had enjoyed. 

Secretary John Wilkinson, Dean of 
Undergraduate Affairs in 1969, was a 
member of the Course of Study 
Committee which recommended that 
the faculty take away ROTC's credit. 
Wilkinson says ROTC chose to leave 
of its own free will. He says that the 
faculty had no control over the courses 
being taught by the ROTC and 
therefore decided to deny them credit. 
"ROTC courses simply weren't up to 
the level we expect from Yale courses," 
explained Wilkinson. But Wilkinson 
believes the credit issue had less to do 
with the departure of ROTC than did 
the change in status of the entire pro-
gram. He thinks that the ROTC left 
campus because the services "didn't 
want to be treated as anything that 
strikes of second class status." Wilkin-
son added, "It was rather sad to see 
them go. They were first-rate guys." 

Although the faculty and the Uni-
versity administration maintained that 
their action wa~ motivated solely by 
academic concerns, the heightened 
ami-military sentiments which pervad-
ed most college campuses certainly in-
fluenced Yale's decision as well. In-
deed, Yale's problem with ROTC was 
comparatively mild. At Harvard, hun-
dreds of students in the SDS occupied 
one of the main 
administrative 
buildings on the Yard, University Hall, 
protesting Harvard's 
position 
on 
ROTC. The takeover ended early one 
morning when 
police 
raided 
the 
building with tear gas. Thousands of 
Harvard students responded by boy-
cotting classes for a week and pressur-
ing the University to act. Backed into a 
corner, the faculty voted 385-25 to take 
away academic credit from ROTC. 

Although the circumstances at Har-. 
vard differed from the less violent 
situation at Yale, the faculty actions 
were very similar. 

At Yale, Harvard and elsewhere, 
ROTC succumbed to both academic 
and political pressures. "It took the 
combination of the academic credit 
issue with the anti-war issue to bring 
this to a faculty vote," said Kingman 
Brewster, former Yale president. "If 
there hadn't been credit given they 
wouldn't have barred ROTC. If there 
hadn't been a war a majority of the 
faculty's support would have been 
unlikely." Brewster notes that while the 
faculty stripped ROTC's academic 
standing, it nevertheless turned down 
a resolution that would have barred it 
from campus altogether. However, as 
Brewster notes, the political climate 
surely brought the question of credit 
for ROTC to a head. 

Supporters of ROTC argue that the 
1969 decision 
was 
prompted by 
political, not academic motives. John 
Zornig, an Associate Professor in the 
Electrical Engineering Department 
and a 1966 Yale-ROTC graduate, 
believes that the faculty "made up 
reasons" to rid itself of ROTC. An ac-
tive reservist in the Army who is heavi-
ly involved with research for the 
Defense Department, 
Zornig has 
helped students obtain ROTC training 
at Bridgeport and Storrs for several 
years. "I felt embarrassment at the ir-
rationality of the· faculty's arguments," 
said Zornig. He believes the faculty felt 
that Yale had nothing to gain from 
ROTC. And since it was only the focal 
point of unpleasant political activity, 
the faculty killed ROTC in the easiest 
way possible. According to Zornig, 
"You won't have the at· 
titude that everyone In 
uniform is a monster." 

Rob Morrow 
who was a graduate student here dur-
ing the 1969 controversy, "The tenor of 
the time came from Kingman Brewster 
and he didn't want ROTC on campus 
for the same reason he wouldn't want 
anything he felt was evil on campus." 

Brewster denies this. He maintains 
that he has never had any moral 
qualms about the military or ROTC. 
He recalls the Ingalls Rink meeting of 
May, 
1969 in 
which over 2500 
members of the Yale community par-
ticipated in an open debate about the 
status of ROTC at Yale. The meeting 
ended with a 1286-1286 deadlock on 
the questions of abolishing ROTC at 
Yale. "In '69 I conducted a review of 
ROTC 
in the Rink," Brewster 
remembered. "I thought it was time we 
respected those who wanted to serve 
their country. Obviously that got lost 
in the noise." 

Brewster has been a vocal supporter 
of some kind of compulsory national 
service. He caused a stir this summer 
with an editorial he wrote for the Boston 
Globe calling for "universal public 
useful service." Many people thought 
Brewster was advocating a return to 
the draft, although he insists his pro-
posal was for something different. "It 
would have to be truly universal, and it 
wouldn't have to be military," he ex-
plained. Although Brewster certainly is 
not anti-military, he admits that he 
does not believe that ROTC merits 
academic credit. "I think people are 
free to surrender their freedom but I 
don't think they should get academic 
credit for it." 

design, Andy Vasey 



**A question of caah**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A question of caah 
Whatever the combination of aca-
demic and political reasons which led 
to the split between Yale and the 
ROTC, the fact remains that students 
interested in Yale do not have the op-
tion of turning to ROTC for financial 
support. 

In these strained economic times for 
both students and the University, 
many proponents of ROTC's return 
argue that ROTC could help ease the 
shortage of financial aid money. As 
one officer in the New Haven Naval 
Recruitment Center remarked, "If you 
go to MIT they'll give you $42,000 
plus $100 spending money a month. 
Who could turn it down?" Students at 
Harvard and Princeton can have their 
entire educations paid for and can 
receive a monthly stipend. The Air 
Force ROTC paid a year's tuition for 
one Harvard sophomore, 
Robert 
Brown, y~t he is under no obligation to 
serve or pay back the military. Such 
cases demonstrate the military's will-
ingness to pay good money to attract 
first-rate 
officers. 

As a Princeton 
freshman who is involved with the 
military there remarked, "Princeton 
students go for it because of the 
money. If they were serious about the 
military, there are a lot better pro-
grams than ROTC." 

Matt Countryman, a Berkeley soph-
omore and active member of CAMD 
(Campaign Against Militarism and the 
Draft) dismisses 
these financial 
arguments for having ROTC on cam-
pus. He questions why any student 
should feel compelled to choose ROTC 
simply for financial reasons. "There is 
no reason why individuals should have 
to turn to the military in order to pay 
for their education," argued Coun-
tryman. He thinks that it is Yale's 
responsibility to search out alternatives 
to the problem of financial aid. "It is 
unproductive for the government to 
pay students to train to kill people and 
to be part of a military system that at-
tempts to solve tensions, yet only in-
cre;ues them," said Countryman. 

Secretary Wilkinson says the 
University is willing to explore the 
return of ROTC, but only as an ex-
tracurricular activity. He warns that 
any return must observe the guidelines 
established by the faculty about credit 
and the status of military officers. "If 
the services had a genuine desire to 
come on campus, we could work out 
an agreement," contended Wilkinson. 
ROTC's inflexibility, not Yale's, is 
blocking any such return to campus, 
he says. Although some argue that 
Yale should solicit ROTC's return to 
ease the financial aid crunch, Wilkin-
son believes that "it is very attractive, 
but one doesn't exchange principles for 
cash." 

Smoke-screens? 
Although the financial issue is perhaps 
the most immediate issue, the question 
of ROTC can raise a philosophical 
debate as well. Professor Zornig argues 
that the exclusion of ROTC from cam-
pus is unfair, particularly since Yale is 
dedicated to the toleration of a diversi-
ty of opinions. "Yale should be a safe 
haven for differing points of view," said 
Zornig. "Eyeryone should be 
welcome;" Zornig 
notes 
that the 
University provides space for many 
liberal organizations through Dwight 
Hall. H e believes that Yale should at 
least welcome the more academically 
rigorous Naval ROTC, which he is 
confident Yale could easily support. 

While arguments abound in support 
of ROTC's return to Yale, many peo-
ple in the Yale community have serious 
moral 
reservations 
about 
allowing 
ROTC back. Reverend John Van-
norsdall, the University Chaplain, is 
one of these people. He warns that 
Yale must guard against intrusions in-
to a student's pursuit of a liberal arts 
education. "Yale must not make a com-
mitment to occupational preparation. 
We must protect the value of the liberal 
arts education at all costs," argued 
Vannorsdall. H e believes students in 
ROTC have made a commitment to a 
career in the military, which he 
believes intrudes upon the liberal 
education. 

Rob Morrow believes that academic 
arguments such as these are simply 
"smoke screens." He contends that the 
credit issue could be resolved by 
upgrading ROTC courses in military 
law, military history and navigation. 
And Morrow argues that the criticism 
of ROTC as preprofessional is unfair. 
10 The New Journal/February 25, 1983 
"Yale must not make a 
commitment to occupa· 
tlonal preparation." 
John Vannorsda/1 
In his opinion ROTC is more in keep-
ing with the liberal arts than MB&B 
and C omputer Science. 
"Military 
Scienn· is simply the study of human 
interacuon." he said. 

Presently there are 
very 
few 
military-oriented courses at Yale. Two 
Political Science courses, "Intelligence 
and Covert Operations" a nd "Eval-
uaung Nuclear Strategy," as well as a 
College Seminar entitled "The 
Anatomy of War" are Yale's only 
courses which stress knowledge of 
military affairs. 

Commitments to the country 
Tht• question of ROTC's return has 
led a number of people to consider 
what role Yale should play in society. 
E~onomics Assistant Professor Jen-
nifer Roback, one of Connecticut's 
leading Libertarians, argued last year 
in a Political Union debate against the 
return of ROTC to Yale. She believes 
that it is important for Yale to main-
tain its autonomy, so that it can take 
polit1cal stands when it needs to. "Ac-
cepting money from the government is 
a dangerous thing," said Roback. "And 
from the military it is even more dan-
gerous." Roback believes that by allow-


**The Art School on trial**
**Author: Lelia Wardwell**
**Page number(s): 12**

The Art School on trial 
Lelia Wardwell 
-
--
"In critiques students were encouraged to back stab and back bite each other and we weren 'f allowed 
to collaborate." 

Yale did not rest peacefully over winter 
vacation. In New York City a group of 
ex-teachers, 
students and alumni 
staged an exhibition of protest entitled, 
"On Trial: Yale School of Art." Some 
members of the group were under-
graduate art 
majors. 
Some were 
graduate students in painting or 
sculpture. A few graduated as early as 
the 1960s, and others left only last 
year. The show was held on Wooster 
Street in Soho and ran from December 
29 to January 8. 

Twenty-two Wooster Gallery is a 
long room with white walls and var-
nished wooden floors. It is a typical 
Soho gallery. The show was unusual 
because it featured artwork of many 
styles and forms, by over 50 different 
artists. In the rear of the room was a 
painting of a "Y," in white against a 
royal blue background. Covering part 
of the picture and curving out on the 
wall was a large red question mark. 
The painting was entitled, "You Went 
to Yale?" In the center of the room 
stood a large sculpture composed of 11 
metal spikes, rising out of a bed of 
12 The New JournaVFebruary 25, 1983 
dead leaves. Posters from the Organ-
izational Drive at Yale showing sup-
port for Local 34 were exhibited on the 
front and rear walls of the gallery. The 
bond between these objects was dearly 
more political than artistic. 

The show was put together by "The 
Committee for Art," a group of about 
20 Yale-associated artists who call 
themselves aesthetic dissidents. The 
purpose of the exhibit was to speak out 
against the administration of the Yale 
School of Art, which they call "a con-
trolling elite that redirects student 
creative energy toward its own pur-
poses." The show was to them "an op-
timistic endeavor" which would "stim-
ulate the return of youthful energy and 
artistic daring." They stated that the 
School's "unbending Euro-centric ap-
proach to art and art history" was 
limiting and oppressive. Samia Hal-
aby, ex-teacher and an active leader of 
the Committee, believed that she was 
denied re-appointment last year 
because her art, influenced by her 
Palestinian background, was too inno-
vative and untraditional . for the ad-
mmtstration. Alumni on the Commit-
tee criticized the Art School's largely 
western-European approach. They 
said in many cases the approach had 
isolated them from current artistic 
trends and left them ill-prepared to 
start a career on their own. 

Small size 
What exactly are the aspects of the Art 
School which spawned this bitter and 
energetic protest? Many of the Com-
mittee's complaints may stem from the 
relatively small size of the Art School's 
administration and student popula-
tion. There are 26 teachers on the staff, 
approximately 100 graduate students 
and 60 undergraduate majors. Many 
equally 
prestigious university-con-
nected art schools are much larger than 
Yale's. Tyler, a prominent art school at 
Temple University, has about 70 full 
and part-time taculty members and 
has over 700 graduate and under-
graduate students. The School of Art 
at New York University employs 75 
teachers full time, 130 part time and 
has over 2,000 students enrolled.



**Yale Art School: A Critical Look**
**Author: Ldi4 Wardwell**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The comparatively higher faculty/ 
student ratio at Yale permits small 
classes, individual attention and cons-
tant interaction between students and 
artists. T enured professors know all of 
their students, graduate and under-
graduate. This intimate environment 
would seem to be a terrific advantage, 
because it provides direct and consis· 
tent interaction with distinguished ar-
tists. 


Members on the Committee for Art, 
however, often found it oppressive and 
claustrophobic. Imna Arroyo, who 
graduated from the Pratt Institute and 
from the Yale School of Art, felt that 
the interaction at Yale was based on a 
preference system. "The favoritism 
was very clear," she said, "and the con-
sequence was a kind of value system-
a preference for certain forms of ex-
pression, while other forms were not 
respected." 


Another consequence of the Art 
School's small size is a feeling of isola-
tion. Alumni on the Committee for Art 
agreed that teachers did not bring in 
current artistic trends from the out-
side. "At Pratt in New York," Arroyo 
said, "current happenings are available 
to you. At Yale, there is a sense of 
isolation, because you become such a 
part of the Art School." 


Students who were not involved 
with the exhibit in New York express a 
different attitude. Some are aware of 
the isolation, but find solutions by 
seeking greater exposure elsewhere. 
They do not expect the Art School to 
bring outside happenings to its stu-
dents. "You can always go to New 
York, said Ruth Santer, an art major 
who graduated last year. Santer also 
dealt with the problem of isolation by 
attending the Art School's summer 
program in Norfolk. There she learned 
about new artists which many of her 
teachers never mentioned. 


Others go further, suggesting that 
art students are responsible for getting 
what they expect out of art school . "It's 
up to you whether you come out ful-
filled as an artist," said Barnaby Fitz-
~rald, a second ye.ar graduate student 
1? p~inting. "It is not solely the respon· 
s•blluy of the school." Fitzgerald, who 
~~~eves greater exposure to recent ar-
tistic trends is the duty of the student 
who seeks it, does not feel isolated at 
Yale. He said, "We're not spoon-fed 
here." 


Individual and class critiques, made 
possible by the small student and facul-
ty population, are a major part of 
Yale's undergraduate and graduate art 
programs. The Art School catalogue 
states, "we attempt to provide an 
educational context within which ad-
vanced students . . . can explore the 
horizons of their own talents in the 
midst of an intense critical dialogue 
... generated by their peers and by a 
faculty made up of experienced artists 
of acknowledged accomplishment." 


This method refines skills and trains 
the eye of the art student. Every week, 
several students display their work, 
allowing other students and teachers to 
make evaluations. 


Some alumni question the value of 
these "crits." Members of the Commit-
tee described them as the worst exper-
iences of their time at Yale. One car-
toon in the show was an illustration of 
one of these sessions: three fat teachers 
are sitting down and laughing, while a 
secretary takes notes. The student who 
is presenting his work kneels submis-
sively before them, while the frightened 
next-in-line dashes to the door. Bird 
Brenner, '82, descnbed a friend who 
started skipping classes regularly 
because she was terrified of these crits. 
"In critiques, students were en-
couraged to back stab and back bite 
each other, and we weren't allowed to 
collaborate," Brenner stated in the ex-
hibition catalogue. "If you didn't shoot 
down other students, you were later 
shot down yourself." 


Other students see value in these ses-
sions, despite their immediate charring 
effects. Santer agreed that students 
were often put down. "You could get 
ripped to shreds," she remarked. The 
older teachers at Yale are "career 
academics," she added, and they 
prepare students for an artistic career 
by forcing them to "explain and in-
tellectualize" their work through the 
crits. These teachers "treat art more 
like a science by using a traditional 
system of basic training and firm foun-
dations." While Fitzgerald complained 
that he usually found the sessions too 
short, he did recognize their impor-
tance. "You're confronted with people 
who are professionals- you discover 
what they think is genuine." 


Creativity and discipline


Many students not involved in the ex-
hibit considered such close evaluation 
a valuable privilege, but others found 
this direct confrontation threatening to 
their personal style, creativity and 
morale. But how does a school attempt 
to teach forms of artistic expression in 
a structured, disciplined way without 
stifling individual creativity? The 
School's catalogue states "the graduate 
students' primary educational exper-
ience at Yale is centered in their own 
studio activity" and is enhanced by 
"rigorous and more traditionally struc-
tured courses such as drawing or the 
relativity of color." Alumni on the 
Committee found this emphasis on 
discipline and technique oppressive. 
nique oppressive. 


One woman submitted a letter to the 
exhibit describing her experience in a 
class where she had spent three weeks 
learning how to draw an ellipse. The 
letter was completely covered with 
perfectly shaped, pencilled ellipses. Ar-
royo said she usually "avoided teachers 
who sacrificed individual creativity for 
technique," adding that the artist 
should "know technique, but should 
not let it interfere with expression." 


Members of the Committee criticize 
Yale's program because they believe 
firmly in their individual styles. Others 
see their creativity in different ways 
and do not feel threatened by rigorous, 
traditional instruction. "Yale gives you 
artistic validation," Santer explained. 
"People's 
creativity doesn't 
always 
come out best in school- they have to 
subordinate themselves to the system" 
while they are learning. She also added 
that it was nice to have "firm boun-
daries" while in school, because "the art 
world at large is somewhat formless." 


For Fitzgerald, creativity means "the 
incentive to produce," and he agreed 
that criticism of a student's work could 
stall this incentive. The Committee 
members referred to creativity as a 
form of personal. individual expres-
sion, but Fitzgerald said, "This is the 
part I care about least. I don't care 
about my style or manner." 


Euro-centrlsm


The School of Art is not explicitly 
Euro-centric 
in 
its 
approach 
to 
teaching art and art history, but An-
drew Forge, former dean of the Art 
School, admits, "There is no attempt to 
teach African art, for example. This 
approach is not imposed," he said, "but 
it is just what the School is about. T~e 
studio practices in the European tradi-
tion." The School, founded in 1869, is 
the oldest university-connected art 
school in the country. After more than 
100 years of European 
and New 
England traditions, this approach m_ay 
be difficult to change, especially wath 
such a small administration. 


Current students do not often speak 
out against this aspect of the School, 
although they are aware of it. Some a!e 
dissatisfied with it, but they realize hJ·


The bond between those 
objects was clearly more 
political than artistic. 
tie can be done about it during the two 
years they are here. Most people ex-
pect all of Yale's departments to be 
western-influenced. 


"It is natural for any school of the 
western world to be Euro-centric," Fitz-
gerald said. "It is tremendously preten-
tious 
and 
condescending (for 
a 
Western school] to attempt to under-
stand the cultures that produce African 
and Oriental art." Christine G ist, a se-
cond year student in sculpture, said 
she assumed Yale would be Euro-
centric, but added that this "could be 
problematic for people with different 
backgrounds." 


Imna Arroyo is Puerto Rican. While 
at Yale, she was particularly sensitive 
to the aesthetic preferences of the facul-
ty because of her different background. 
She said that many teachers "had a 
hard time accepting where my work 
was coming from." She believes that an 
artist perceives space and makes a 
composition based on a personal sense 
of aesthetics. "You have to recognize 
that there is a multiple set of aesthetics, 
not just one," she explained. "One's 
cultural background is characterized 
by certain 
preferences ... When 
you're on the island, you have a lush, 
green background, 
and houses, 
clothing, appear in primary colors. But 
an urban, Northern background is 
grey, and those colors pop out- they 
get vibrant." Arroyo felt that many 
teachers used an emotional basis for 
criticizing her work, and because of 
their own ways of classifying art, could 
not understand the significance of her 
background. 


Samia Halaby's painting for the ex-
hibit was large, vibrant and colorful. It 
dearly did not draw from any previous 
Western European tradition. On the 
same wall, only a few feet away, was 
an etching by a graduate alumna, en-
titled "5th Avenue." The perspective 
was mathematical, the lines were 
perfectly straight and the colors were 
shades of grey and white. Although the 
School of Art slept fitfully during this 
trial, it had not failed to leave its own 
mark on those who challenged it. 

**Title: Another New Haven**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 16-17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The tour begins on Saturday morn-
ing, whcp the streets are almost empty. 
Liz is careful that we stay unnoticed in 
the neighborhoods. l am disappointed 
that we will not meet and talk to people 
along the way, but Liz is definite. 
"There's a lot of hostility toward Yale 
among the New H aven poor," she 
says, and she respects that hostility. 
"Yale is a rich institution with walls 
and gates, and it remains closed to the 
community. Scholars have scrutinized 
the place and left. The people feel like 
guinea pigs. People write huge num-
bers of books, but they don't do any-
thing." Liz does not want to repeat that 
offense. 

I don't often leave the blocks between 
Chapel Street and the Divinity School, 
Payne-Whitney and Macy's, because 
it's not safe. But this Saturday morning 
I am standing on the Oak Street Con-
nector and heading further out on The 
Alternative Tour of New Haven. I'll 
visit the deprl'ssed areas of the city 
-the Hill, 
Dixwell_ Avenue, rair 
Haven. This tour is not a formalized 
lament and protest of poverty. Liz 
Shaw, a second-year student at Yale 
D ivinity ~chovl, has orgamzea a tour 
to show students the New Haven that 
exists around Yale- to take them 
through streets they don't usually see. 
It brings them into the midst of 
poverty. Liz wants to educate students 
about New Haven and prompt them to 
involve themselves in city-aid projects. 
"I hope it will be depressing and inspir-
ing," she says. Her introduction makes 
my stomach tighten; I wonder what I'll 
find and how I'll respond. 


Sodom Hill
In the quiet morning we drive west on 
College Street. "It used to be called 
Sodom Hill," Liz says, and we smile at 
the nickname; the Hill is still notor· 
ious. "It's got terribly high crime, high 
unemployment, and bad drug prob· 
lems," 
Liz says. 
We 
first 
pass 
something that looks like a concrete 
prison. It is Richard C. Lee High 
School, a product of the urban renewal 
of the 1950s and 60s. There the school 
day is as short as legally permitted 
because of budget and staffing prob-
lems and because discipline cannot be 
maintained. 

We park on Cedar Street outside 
Columbus House, an emergency shel· 
ter for the homeless. Liz estimates that 
each night, 250 to 400 people in New 
Haven have no place to sleep. "They 
spend the day at the Green or the 
railroad station, and many come to the 
Hill at night." Columbus House pro· 
vides a hot meal and a bed for some of 
the homeless. "They need volunteers 
here now," Liz says. "You work in 
four-hour shifts, and they'll give you a 
place to sleep." 

Liz is slowly pressing a clenched fist
into the palm of her other hand as she 
speaks. She does this when she talks 
about helping the poor. "We have to 
involve ourselves as inhabitants rather 
than whiz through as students," Liz 
says. In a year, she will have both a 
Master of Arts in Religion from Yale 
Divinity School and a Masters in 
Social Work from the University of 
Connecticut. She runs the Alternative 
Tour as a program of the Center for 
Human Rights and Economic Justice 
at Yale Divinity School, which she co-
coordinates. The Center provides in-
formation- books, periodicals, leaf-
lets, movies- about local, national and 
international human rights issues. 

Housing on the Hill is among the 
worst of New H aven. Many people are 
homeless or in unhealthy conditions. 
The stately homes throughout the 
neighborhood have lost their grace. 
Now they might house three or four 
families. Landlords allow houses to 
deteriorate; most do not live in their 
buildings. Yards are unkempt and lit-
tered; the paint is dull, chipped and 
thin. Lattice and shutters are broken. 
The problem, Liz says, is "economic 
drain:" once people make money, they 
leave. Virtually no one on the H ill has 
funds to maintain or refurbish the old 
houses. 

Yale owns a lot of real estate on the 
Hill; "In the 1930s it was a slum 
landlord," Liz says. People resent Yale 
because it does not pay taxes and 
because it has a history of buying land 
and doing nothing with it for a long 
time. "The medical center stands 
where St. John's Cathedral used to be," 
Liz explains. "Yale bought it, tore it 
down, and built nothing for years. 
Some people are still angry about that. 
One woman on the Hill has an expres-
sion for Yale: she calls it an 'octopus' 
because it reaches out and grabs land 
all around it." 

Fourteen percent of the housing is 
vacant. Next to the run-down 20th 
Century Garage a house stands board-
ed up. Its porch columns are askew, 
and the stoop has been kicked in and 
made a dump for bottles and bags. T he 
vacant houses are inevitably the site for 
vagrancy and arson. C ity kids and 
landlords seeking insurance money are 
mainly responsible for the fires. 

Across the street stands the shell of a 
Victorian-style house. But high up on 
the front wall, an elegant, oval window 
remains intact, as if it were a special 
symbol of neighborhood · pride. Next 
door is a row of uniform, stocky new 
houses. A woman is shaking a red mat 
out one of the doors. A young blond 
boy rides his minibike around and 
around the block. Federally-subsidized 
housing- Section 8, it is called- is be-
ing constructed throughout the Hill. 
They are two-story, tan-colored com-
plexes. They are inexpensive, and 
waiting lists are long. 


A victimized neighborhood
As we drive along Congress Avenue, I 
see a group of six or seven black men 
lined up in front of a store. They stare 
into the car. They are not talking or 
doing anything in particular, just 
standing, just leaning against the 
walls. I see group after group like this 
the entire length of the street. 

The streets of the Hill are the 
ground for an acute drug problem. 
Last April 1 the police arrested 45 peo-
ple in a 
raid that cleared it up 
somewhat. Lights were then installed 
over the main roads, but the effect was 
mainly to push the drug-dealing and 
related crime into side streets and other 
neighborhoods. "People on the Hill are 
frightened, and the neighborhood is 
the victim," Liz says. 


"But the people living here are less 
afraid than outsiders,'' Liz says. 
"Sometimes our fears come from what 
we don't know." She tells us about an 
elderly, Irish Catholic woman who 
grew up on the Hill and who now is 
unemployed. "She's a gutsy lady. She's 
a person who likes people, and she's 
proud of the Hill. She loves showing 
you the good side. She told me, 'We 
have to pick up and care.'" I ask Liz 
how this woman can still have pride in 
this degenerated neighborhood: "Well, 
there's something about being some-
where all your life. Going to the same 
stores you wept to as a kid. There's a 
character to the n~ighborhood that still 
exists, despite the cha nges." 

Seeing the bad and the hopeful in 
the neighborhood has inspired Liz. "I 
have a tendency to fall in love with ug-
ly cities," she laughs. She spent much 
time involved with the Presbyterian 
C hurch as she grew up in Baltimore. 
"When you're a minister's kid, you've 
got to be active in the church," she 
says. Through the church she first 
·became interested and involved in ur-
ban social work. "I see the gospel as a 
call to living a lifestyle in solidarity 
with people struggling to meet daily 
needs," she says. 

But Liz does not want to be or-
dained. "I am angry ~ith the church," 
she says, "angry at what I see as inac-
tion. I won't deny the service of 
pastoral ministry. But I feel the church 
isn't addressing peoples' needs as it 
should be. You have to empower the 
poor to help themselves, and churches 
aren't doing that enough . And it's very 
human to turn our backs because it's 
painful to see. But as Christians, and 
as human beings, we are called to do 
something, because the dignity of 
every individual is involved. We have 
to look, even when it hurts to look." 

And so the tour brings people face to 
face with poverty. 


Bright spots
Bright spots stand out in this decrepit 
neighborhood. The concrete of Lee 
High School is monotonous and deso-
late, but driving past it, we see all of a 
sudden a 
brilliantly-colored mural 
covering one long wall. It tells the story 
of a mass of people, mostly black men 
and women. The mural starts with a 
row of broken-down city buildings 
marked "CONDEMNED." The win-
dows ar~ shattered, and black smoke


**A New Haven Harlem**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A New Haven Harlem
The first block of Dixwell has more
rubble, more burned and decaying
buildings than any street on the Hill.
We pass through Elm Haven, a neighborhood of public housing built in the
1940s and 50s. Low-rise and high-rise
brick buildings cover about six blocks.
On many, windows stand open or broken, and I know that a good number of
these apartments are vacant. Liz says


**Do you photograph it and forget it?**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Do you photograph it and forget it? Lots of folks 
do. But it doesn't make sense to let undeveloped 
film sit around. Once you do your part, let us do 
ours. So why not bring in your rolls of un-
developed film today, and we'll give you back 
your memories on quality Kodak paper .. .for a 
Good Look. 

STUDENTS-NOW YOU CAN 
GET EVEN YOUR DISK FILM 
DEVELOPED BETWEEN 
CLASSES! 
Incredibly convenient, but it's true 
for all your photo finishing needs! * * * 
PHOTO 
PRINTS 
While You Wait! 
624-2599 
QUALITY • SPEED • CONVENIENCE 
930 Chapel Street 
(corner of Temple) 
Downtown New Haven 
22 The New Journal/February 25, 1983 


**A Tour of New Haven's Neighborhoods**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

that ten to 15 percent are uninhabit-
able; they have no plumbing or elec-
tricity. 

We drive along a block of one-story 
apartments. The tiny front yards are 
bald dirt, scattered with children's 
toys. Young black men and women 
stand in green-edged doorways or stare 
out of green-paned windows. The Dix-
well area is the original black com-
munity in New Haven. Many came 
from the South. The neighborhood has 
not become mixed like the Hill, which 
incorporates Irish, Italians, Hispanics 
and blacks; Dixwell is 90 percent 
black. About 80 percent of Elm Haven 
is occupied by welfare mothers. 

Empty lots break the monotonous 
line of brick buildings. In one, paper 
bags and cans roll with the wind. 
Scraps are plastered and frozen to the 
ground. Driving out Dixwell Avenue 
we see empty houses and new houses, 
both boarded up against vagrants. 
Some are scrawled over with graffiti. A 
large black woman stands on a porch, 
calling to her children down the street. 
The house behind her is just a frame. I 
cannot imagine that she lives there. 
Perhaps she lives next door, in an old, 
but warm-looking house, painted part 
yellow, part blue, part gray. 

Further down the street, the shiny 
blue and white Olin Research Factory 
stands enclosed by a tall wire fence. In 
the back a re two steel factory build-
ings. Across the street the door of a 
neat, red-brick facade reads, "U.S. 
Repeating Arms, One Winchester 
Street;" it is the old Winchester rifle 
factory. 

Olin and U.S. Repeating 
Arms are major employers in New 
Haven; the Science Park project, coor-
dinating Yale, the city and Olin, is at-
tempting to revitalize industry in the 
Dixwcll area. It should improve Yale's 
relations with the poor around it. 

Fair Haven 
Fair Haven's social problems are less 
severe than those in the two neigh-
borhoods we've left. Set off by the river 
and the highway, it has resisted over-
crowding because other neighborhoods 
cannot encroach. The Fair Haven 
community is mainly Italian, Irish and 
H ispanic. Liz says, "The Hispanics 
seem to be doing better than the 
blacks- perhaps because their skin is 
lighter, perhaps because they've been 
in New Haven a shorter time and are 
Jess cynical." Some store fronts along 

the main street are being renovated. 
But many "For Rent" signs are up 
alongside. 

The industrial area of Fair Haven 
next to the harbor is more run-down 
than the town center. Useless train 
tracks that met freight ships years ago 
trail down the streets. Lines of old 
warehouses, broken, boarded-up 
buildings, have bright signs. Evidently 
business goes on in this ghost-town. 
Down the street, the wind whistles 
through a gingerbread-style factory, 
Brewery Sq.uare. A plaque above the 
entrance archway reads "1896." Above; 
a new green and yellow sign advertizes 
the refurbishing of the building. 

Walking by the river, I look at a 
bulky paper bag by my feet; inside are 
the pieces of a wine bottle. Two young 
boys holding their fathers' hands pass 
me, chattering in Spanish. More 
Spanish voices come to my ears from 
the playground across the 
street·: 
teenage boys are playing basketball. 
The skyline behind them is an uneven 
iine of cranes, oil tanks, chimney-
stacks, an I-95 overpass and a few 
trees. The smell of petroleum is foul. I 
head back to the car. Two Hispanic 
men drive by and leer at me. A girl 
walks past a nd smiles shyly. 

Soon we're heading towards East 
Rock on Livingston Street. We drive 
by some of the loveliest homes in Con-
necticut-only a third of a mile from 
Elm Haven. The contrast is upsetting, 
but the tour has not called me to decry 
wealth, only to work as one with the 
poor, to strengthen the poor. 

It all comes together at the top of 
Ea!;t Rock. The city is tiny below. I 
cannot see the broken gtass and 
charred brick. 
I 
cannot discern 
·dangerous 
from 
safe, 
poor from 
wealthy. It occurs to me that this is 
what I should see- a city as one com-
munity. With this in mind, I return to 
the streets below. 

Katherine Scobey, a junior in Davenport, is a 
reguW.r contributor to TN.J. 
The Alternative Tour is given by appointment: 
contact Liz Shaw on weekday·afternoons at the 
Center for Human Rights and Economic 
Justice, 363 St. Ronan St. 436-2346. 


• fine wines by the 
glass or bottle 
• beelis from around 
the world 
• specialty drink menu 
• Sunday Brunch 
• fabulous salad and 
health food bar 
44 Whitney Ave. New Haven 773-3399


Audio Replay 
BUYS, SELLS & TRADES 
quality stereo equipment 
Great components from 
all the famous names-
at terrific prices! 
FAST, RELIABLE 
STEREO SERVICE! 
Factory-Authorized 
Warranty Service 
for many brands. 
Quality Guaranteed! 
252 PARK ST. 
-NEW HAVEN ... 
787-1558 ~,.";5 
The New Journal/February 25, 1983 


**Sports**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 24**

DASTOOB 
11You have to 
wonder what sort 
of pervert thought 
it up." 
•Jt was pretty incredible. It may be one of my 
fondest memories of Yale; our big game was 
against Pierson last year. They had AI 
Daiman (who was at that time captain of 
Yale~ wattrpolo team and was a great polo 
player) and we had Mark Schoofs. We had 
lost one and they hadn't lost any. We were 
going into it all out. It was a tough game; 
we couldn't afford to substitute. They had us 
by three goals with two minutes left in the 
game ... " 

A dirty "tube" schedule taped to the 
door assures me my pilgrimage is at 
an end. Somewhere beyond those two 
inches of Oak is a man they call Curt 
Frueh-pronounced "Kirt Free." The 
name has a Dick Tracy comic-book 
ring. It belongs to the tuber who now 
captains the Berkeley team that defla-
ted Pierson in an all-time thriller final 
last year. 

Captain Curt is not as large as I had 
expected- at most 165 pounds. As he 
relates the tale of Berkeley's triumph, 
his speech is slow and calculating. His 
large aquiline nose spews forth smoke 
"Water Is the great equalizer ... " 

in two steady, powerful jets. I place 
him somewhere between Humphrey 
Bogart and Sylvester Stallone. But 
then the lighting isn't so good. 

Frueh must fill the tube left by last 
year's legendary captain Joan Rabbits 
(a woman whose habit of "face lifting" 
opponents won her recognition as 
THE CLAW.) Many think he's done 
it. Berkeley, undefeated in over a year, 
is odds-on favorite to clinch the title 
again this year. Ten wins, no losses, no 
draws and no prisoners; it's an awe-
some record. 

But what is even more awesome is 
that it belongs to Berkeley. This is a 
college which has traditionally been in 
the cellar of virtuaJiy every intramural 
sport. How is it that Berkeley has come 
to dominate the inner tube circuit? In-
tramural director, Ed Mockus could 
only guess at an explanation, "Maybe 
these are just the sort of people who are 
going to do well at this sport." 

Berkeley coach Mike Sullivan (also 
captain-elect of Yale's men's water polo 
team) explains his side of it, "With 
other colleges being so good at so many 
design, Tom McQuillen 



**Title: Super-tuber Curt Frueh takes aim**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Super-tuber Curt Frueh takes aim· 
other sports, and Berkeley not being 
~ood ... it's as if we're the ugly duck-
hogs of sports. It's something to really 
be proud of that we're good in Inner 
Tube Water Polo. 
People take it 
seriously." 

People haven't always taken ITWP 
so seriously, though, and many stilJ 
hold prejudices against the sport. "I 
thought of it as a complete wimp-out 
sport," admits one varsity crew athlete, 
"parallel to co-ed touch. You know, 
smaJI, fat people desperate to get on 
a'!Y intramural team. Populated by 
pallid-faced, calculator-toting, pre· 
meds looking to round out their 
resumes ... " 

. Not only was the sport's legitimacy 
an ~uestion, but a lot of people thought 
of tt as some perverted aquatic orgy. 
"What an awful game," said Tom Far-
rell, 
a 
philosophy major studying 
ethics. "You have to wonder what sort 
of pervert thought it up." A junior in 
T.O. was less moralistic. "I saw it as a 
chance to live out my mud wrestling 
fantasies." 

And for many uninitiates, the con· 
cept of ITWP still conjures an unusual 
m1x of fascination anci revulsion. 
When Mockus proposed the game in 
1980, it was over cries of protest from 
administrators who felt that any co-ed 
game played in inner tubes was "not a 
YaJ_e. sport." And when I proposed 
wntmg an article on the sport, it was to 
a chorus of jokes about rubber caps, 
getting wet and scoring. My proposal 
~ways appeared at the bottom of story 
hsts under headings like "Inner Tube 
Water Orgies," or "Inner Tube Sex," 
and finally under the none-too-subtle 
header, "Water Sex." 

Frueh is aware of these fanciful 
myths about ITWP, and admits to 
having believed 
in them himself. 
"Yeah, last year it struck me, too. In-
ner tube water polo? WHAT? It 
sounds ridiculous- sounds absolutely 
n"diculous! But it's a real sport with real 
field positioning and conditioning, 
speed and quickness: all those things 
that make for a very tough team sport." 

Not only is ITWP tough, it is per-
haps the most vigorously battled sport 
on the intramural scene. Both Berkeley 
and Branford accuse other colleges of 
photographing key plays in their 
games. There's a well substantiated 
rumor that T.D. secretly video-taped 
an opposing team's game in order to 
pinpoint weak spots. Branford cooly 
cut the old and the weak from its 
streamlined six tube machine. The 
Pierson team has its own set of "de-
signer tubes," and Berkeley's looking at 
getting specially designed swim caps. 
It's not a game where courtesy, mild 
manners or the ~ial graces are going 
to get you very far. 

Though the first ITWP regular 
season was only last year, the origins of 
the game are shrouded in mystery. 
Mockus speculates that the game may 
have originated somewhere in the 
Mid-West, but admits the trail is faint. 
He remembers taking the rules from 
some old journal which has since 
disappeared. And so, the first man or 
woman to connect the scerninl{ly 
disparate concepts of inner tube and 
water polo, like the inventor of the 
wheel, must remam forever anony-
mous. 


**Title:  (Untitled)**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

II. 
Stuffing my clothes in my third floor 
locker in Payne W hitney, I head out to 
play my first game. I look up at the 
rows of stern-faced Yale men who line 
the hallway. They seem to look scorn-
fully down on me and my Speedo. 
NOT a Yale sport, they all seem to say 
in unison. I parry with a defiant 
gesture. 

It's a game of self-exposure. No 
J-P ress cotton comes between the 
world and your acne problem. Even 
your tinted Clearasil washes off in the 
pre-game shower. It's just six men, six 
women, a dozen tubes ofT a Mack 
truck and an unvarnished lust for vic-
tory. 

You have to get there early if you 
want to round up a good tube. You 
want one that doesn't leak, big enough 
to comfortably englobe your rear end. 
If the tube is too big you11 slip too deep 
in the water and increase water resis-
tance; if it's too small, you'll be top 
heavy and easy to capsize. Ideally, you 
want one with a valve that won't leave 
a permanent scar on your side. 

Three men and three women make 
up a team, but many colleges have se-
cond lines to replace failing starters. 
They sit back in tubes about a yard in 
d iameter and propel themselves back-
wards, paddling with alternating arms 
and using either the "eggbeater" kick 
technique or the more traditional "flut-
ter." Either way, you're not going 
anywhere particularly quickly. 

The New Journal/February 25, 1983 25


**Title: Theatre**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Theatre 
A Ben Franklin in blue jeans 
An old green 
bakery truck drives 
up, and Ed Meyer 
steps out with the 
hardware for the 
next show. 
28 The New Journal/ February 25, 1983 
Ed Meyer 
For about 15 dollars a week you can fill 
your room with bubbles, float a layer 
of fog above your desk or shoot 
cobwebs over the boxes in Yale Sta-
tion. A 51-year-old man with a gray 
ponytail named Ed Meyer will rent 
you the equipment. He can also rent 
you spotlights, pipes, clamps, cables, 
gels, hats, doors and chandeliers. For 
any conceivable event- from a H allo-
ween SAC party to a Bar Mitzvah to 
an uncut Shakespeare-Meyer has the 
tinkertoys to pull it off. 

Anyone who has worked in theatre 
at Yale has at least heard of Ed Meyer 
and Stage Lighting Rental Services. 
Everyone who has walked into a col-
lege show has seen his stock. And if 
you're a lighting designer, his old 
green bakery truck is probably as 
familiar as the family car. You can feel 
it coming; you can spot it a block 
away. Finally it drives up, and a soft-
featured man with eyeglasses and a 
clipboard steps out. M eyer looks like 
Ben Frankhn with bluejeans. l-Ie's got 
the kind of slow and rolling voice that 
makes you calm down, and there's a 
precision in his style that somehow 
assures you 
the show will come 
together. 

H e thumbs through the 
yellow carbon invoices and finds your 
order: 50 lighting instruments, a 
power pack and the hardware and 
countless odd-shaped pieces that make 
it all connect. A lot of equipment 
comes out of the green bakery truck 
when M eyer makes his rounds\ but it 
is hardly a sampling of what remains in 
the SLRS warehouse. 

A fun house
The warehouse fits Meyer's character. 
It's an inconspicuous, unassuming 
brick building set back from the road. 
T here are no signs out front , no lights 
or parking lots. Like Meyer, SLRS 
keeps a low profile. But on the inside 
there's a full-scale business in motion. 
The cluttered warehouse doesn't seem 
to make any sense, but to Meyer's 
curious sense of order, everything has 
a place. There are 820 lights hangin~ 
in racks. They make up a third of the


The warehouse alone. Other racks hold fix-
tures and cables. The cement floor is 
covered with a dozen boxes filled with 
important-looking metal gadgets of 
mysterious design. A crated chandelier 
hangs from the ceiling, and a couple of 
strobe lights rest half-hidden in the cor-
ner. It's a theatre person's Fun House. 

Besides Meyer, several other people 
work at SLRS. "J" Seaman manages 
the shop, and Dean Clark makes most 
of the pick-ups and deliveries. Lenove 
Shapiro and Martha Lasko work as 
"Theatrical Equipment Service Tech-
nicians," which is a way of saying 
that they fix the lights. When Clark 
backs up the service truck and flips 
open the doors, everyone helps unload. 
One job is back, bu t another one has to 
go out in five m inutes. And there are 
two more deliveries to make in the 
afternoon. That's the way SLRS 
operates-two hours of calm, then all 
at once the squeeze is on. Quickly, 
Seaman pulls an armload of lights out 
of the truck. 
"Wow, they're warm, they're warm." 
Seaman's breath shoots out like smoke 
into the cold air of the warehouse. 
"Warm parcans!" 
"Well, if they're warm, they don't 
belong here." 
"Everything we do here we mark 
with colored tape." 
"I n eed fifteen 50s." 
"Where are the 50s living?" 
"You're there." 
"Okay, fifteen 25s?" 
"They must have fifty-foot wrenches 
down there." 
"Just step over the things instead of 
on them." 
"We really need to get this place 
organized. It usually isn't like this." 
C lark slaps the door shut. Delivery 
time. 

Ed Meyer rarely get 
to make 
deliveries anymore. H e has to spend 
most of his time keeping track of all the 
paperwork for SLRS. H e works at 
home, a gray clapboard on Gilbert 
Avenue across 
town 
from 
the 
warehouse. 
Like 
warehouse, 
Meyer's · office doesn't waste space. 
There's a lot to look at, a lot to keep a 
tinkerer occupied. Art books, puzzles. 
toys, plants and a computer terminal 
for recording the changing inventory. 
And on the countertop, buried under 
register tape and paper scraps, sits a 
telephone. It rings every time you look 
at it. "I'm more organized than I look," 
says Meyer, "but I'm not as organized 
as I'd like to be." 

From physics to the theatre 
Stage Lighting Rental Service hasn't 
always required so much organization. 
Meyer took over the business during 
his last year at the Yale Drama School 
in 1968. He had originally set out on a 
different career. After graduating from 
Carnegie Tech in Philadelphia (now 
Carnegie Mellon Institute) with a B.S. 
in physics, he spent nine years writing 
electronics manuals and doing theatre 
on the side. Although Meyer had been 
interested in theatre since high school, 
he studied physics because "nobod y 
bothered telling me it was possible to 
get into theatre. Besides, I think there 
would have been a major battle at 
home if I had dropped physics for 
theatre." 

While writing electronics manuals, 
Meyer began putting more and more 
time into the technical end of theatre. 
"It got to the point where I was spend-
ing more time on theatre than on my 
job," says Meyer. After thinking it 
over, he moved from Long Island to 
New Haven and enrolled 
in the 
Technical Design and Lighting pro-
gram at the Yale Drama School. 

Before Meyer came to Yale and 
started his business, there was only a 
small lighting operation run by a hand-
ful of drama school students. The 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Theatre Is a micro-
organism. Once It gets Into 
your body, It doesn't get 
out." 
other special effects for the shop. 
"Some of the stuff we made because at 
the time it wasn't generally available," 
explains Meyer. 

Aside from these specialty machines, 
Meyer has designed a number of fairly 
intricate lighting effects as well. This is 
the end of the business that really gets 
Meyer going. On a scrap of paper he 
makes a sketch as he describes his 
"starburst chase unit," a minor master-
piece of lighting technology. 

Several years ago he began building 
"chase strips," which are rows of lights 
wired to give the appearance of the 
movement of light along a line. Meyer 
has produced several versions of the 
chase strip. In some, lights will ripple 
and then bounce back, or chase a black 
spot down a row of lights, or add and 
subtract their way up and down a 
series of lights. He's even made one 
that can be controlled by a stereo 
system. "If the music is loud, it will go 
very fast," he explains, "and if it's soft, 
it will bounce back and forth lightly." 

The chase strips are usually used with 
his starburst unit. "It has the effect of a 
circle of light, expanding and contrac-
ting. It is like a propeller spinning." 

Like so many of his lighting inven-
tions, Ed Meyer keeps in constant mo-
tion. He is an integral part of a theatre 
world that never stops. "Theatre is a 
microorganism that, once it gets into 
your body, doesn't get out," he says. 

Meyer stands up and moves around 
the room. He says he finds it hard to sit 
still for very long. "I think I get tired in 
a different way now, being in the of-
fice," he says, "If I had someone who 
was capable and I could trust, I would 
much rather be out at the warehouse 
making the deliveries myself." 

But Meyer has no time auymore to 
putter around the shop building star-
burst chase sets and fog makers. Stage 
L ighting Rental Service, which only 
last month bought out its only local 
competitor, will need more organiza-
tion than ever. "I guess," he says, "the 
kind of thing I've been doing all the 
time is not the sort of thing you expect 
someone .my age to be doing." 

• 
Laura Pappano, a junior in Ezra Stiles, is a 
regular contributor to TN].


**Title: The Co-op Book Department Helps You FIND THE BOOK YOU NEED**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 32**

With these Special Customer Services: 
7 DAY SEARCH SERVICE 
Many popular general titles that are not in 
stock can be obtained in 7 to 10 days or less. 
No fees or charges. Ask at the Book 
Information Desk. 

SPECIAL ORDERS 
Direct to the publisher for books otherwise 
unobtainable. Allow 3-6 weeks; prepayment 
required; postage charge added. Ask at the 
Special Order Desk. 

OUT-OF-PRINT SEARCH SERVICE 
If a copy is located, the price is quoted 
first-there is no obligation to buy. Ask at 
Book Information or the Special Order Desk. 

FOREIGN BOOKS 
For titles in French, German and Spanish 
that are not in stock, ask at the Europa Desk. 
