Publication date: November 23, 1969
Volume: three
Issue number: five

**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Herman Hong, Paul Goldberger
- Business Manager: Stephen Thomas
- Art Director: Nicki Kalish
- Copy Editors: Richard Caples, Stuart Klawans
- Chief Photographer: Peter M. C. Choy
- Advertising Manager: Robert Kirkman
- Assistant Editors: Charles Draper, Bryan Di Salvatore, George Kannar, Edward Landler, David Meter
- Circulation Managers: John Callaway, Thomas Davison
- Associate Business Manager: William Palmer
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, David Freeman, Mopsy Strange Kennedy, Lawrence Lasker, Jonathan Lear, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuflo, Walter Wagoner
- Staff: Jay Adkins, Charles Chapman, Richard Conniff, Jack Friedman, Joanne Lawless, Cathie Lutter, Gus Oliver, Pat O'Rourke, Manuel Perez, Barbara Rich, James Rosenzweig, Lynne Rutkin, Rosi Snipper, Anne Wagner, David Wilson, Michael Ziomco


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- A reporter's recollections of the Lindsay campaign. - Steven Weisman
- Yale Med: how long on top of the Hill? - Jim Ross
- A hippie runs for the Cambridge City Council. - Richard Margolin
- The Stones are rolling (and rocking) again. - Patrick Lydon


**Title: Tear gas and moustaches**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 2**

Saturday felt, in so many ways, like a 
requieum for the peace movement. It was 
big, it was glorious, it was fun, it was cool. 
You had to have a good time. But we'd 
all been through it before, and suddenly, 
at the height of Saturday's success, you 
could feel it all beginning to wear out. 
Maybe this time it was too big, too 
glorious. Or maybe it was just too old. It 
was the same broken record, again and 
again, five years later.


Even Norman Mailer couldn't think of 
anything new to say. Riding in from the 
airport the night before, he talked idly of 
how violence would play right into Nixon's 
hands. He wasn't there to write another 
Armies of the Night; this time he was 
only along to march, perhaps as much out 
of momentum as anything else.


Friday night the scenario played itself 
further. I watched the cops confront the 
kids at DuPont Circle-tear gas and "Fuck 
the pigs" and sirens and moustaches-and 
it ended in a draw, with nobody con-
vincing anybody of anything. I got more 
than a few whiffs of tear gas, so maybe I 
was a little partial to the demonstrators. 
But it was still empty, and still predictable, 
and had all happened before.


Then dawned Saturday, crisp, cold and 
beautiful. It was-well, yes, it was a per-
fect day for the march. And the march 
complied, and was perfect.


No, make that spectacular, for it was. 
It was a beautiful thing to straggle up the 
flagpole around the Washington Monu-
ment and see a quarter of a million people 
singing below. It was inspiring and ex-
citing to hear Reverend Coffin-whose 
short, humble invocation was a master-
piece of graceful strength-and Dick 
Gregory and Arlo Gutherie and Pete 
Seeger. When they spoke, the day flashed 
full with meaning. But the others-so many 
of them, so well intentioned, so political. 
How few had the honesty of Leonard 
Bernstein, who greeted the crowd simply 
with a wave of his hand and a happy, "I'm 
glad to be here!" Instead they talked on 
and on, with rhetoric better than anything 
else said in politics, but political rhetoric 
just the same.


Last Saturday was the peace move-
ment's first major effort since the October 
Moratorium, since the movement had 
made it big. It had been shooting for the 
big time since the days of Gene McCarthy 
-no, really since its very beginning. Now 
it has made it, and wonderful though 
Saturday's march was, it wasn't the same. 
Success bas taken its toll-in people who 
realized that the peace movement can 
mean political success, and jumped on its 
bandwagon for that reason, or in people 
who have been along for years, and are 
getting tired, for they have had to say 
the same things to the same people for a 
longtime.


In the end, though, Saturday wasn't the 
same because we'd all bad enough. After 
five years we have come to expect days 
like Saturday. We had nothing new to say 
because we'd been through it all so many 
times before. What was really unique 
about Saturday's march was that by now 
it had become so much a part of our 
routine. 


continued on page 14


**Title: Letter from Cambridge**

It is that time of year again when all of us-
Weatherman and fat cat, tailgater and 
acid freak-John Lennon tells us, should 
"come together right now" in unity of 
spirit. Sure we had our little misunder-
standing last week in Washington, but 
Saturday is the day of The Game, and even 
if it doesn't dawn clear and bright like 
it's supposed to, we are all Harvard men, 
we are all Yale men, to paraphrase some-
body. So the Crimson take on the Bulldogs 
and everybody cheers for their team.


But things are a little different this year; 
they have to be. Not even one of us is 
undefeated, and gone are Hill and Dowling 
and Gatto, and even "Frank Merriwell" 
Champi got sick of football and quit. But 
that's not all. Looking back on it, last 
year's game reminds one of the last drunk 
before the Great Crash or the final blazing 
frenzy before our Byronic hero succumbs 
to tuberculosis.


Okay. Joe Namath represents the Spock 
Generation and the Mets are the Charlie 
Browns of the world, so who's this guy who 
dies ofT.B., John Yovicsin? No, but you 
might say he's Harvard--or at least Nathan 
Pusey. Things are going to get worse be-
fore they get better, so in time of strife it 
might be comforting to play the record of 
last year's forty-two seconds or flip it over 
to be inspired by the Harvard Band. It is 
unlikely that another such triumphant 
moment-on whatever field of battle-is 
soon in coming.


For it is not only Harvard's football 
team that is in trouble, but the institution 
itself, and as its alumni stream into New 
Haven to cheer it on, they should perhaps 
stop for a moment and consider its 
achievements in some rather more impor-
tant respects. It is a truism in football that 
you don't win games on your reputation-
Yale discovered that last year-but it seems 
that Harvard learned nothing from its own 
team. It might be interesting at this point 
to make a few comparisons between Satur-
day's opponents in something other than 
total offense.


The most obvious difference is that a 
violent and disruptive confrontation took 
place here that bas no parallel in New 
Haven. Some might say this was due to 
differences among the two student bodies, 
but ultimately the burden of responsibility 
rests with those in power, namely the 
president of the university. It might be 
argued that this is merely a question of 
who is more adept at the art of cooptation, 
but events, it would seem clear, speak for 
themselves. It is no coincidence that King-
man Brewster has spared Yale from the 
dangers of polarization as Nathan Pusey 
could not at Harvard. Change seems to 
come slowly in Cambridge, and problems 
seem to remain covered over. A few 
examples:


The curriculum remains static. Despite 
the widespread changes at places such as 
Yale and Brown, Harvard retains the letter 
grading system and at the end of every 
semester ranks every undergraduate into 
one of five groups. Concentration and 
General Education requirements remain 
strict.


Course offerings can be sparse. Last year 
Harvard offered no introductory American 


**Title: The reporter who came in from the cold: Recollections of the Lindsay campaign.**
**Author: Steven Weisman**
**Page number(s): 3**

Years ago, when decentralization was a 
synonym for states' rights in the South, and 
when borough presidents in New York 
did more than cut ribbons and run for 
re-election, John T. (Pat) Clancy met with 
reporters in his office the day after his 
election as President of the Borough of 
Queens.


The newsmen asked for Clancy's vision 
of his new job, now that he bad been 
elected, and at the very least for some kind 
of outline of his plans.


''The first thing I'm going to do," said 
Clancy, "is fix the potholes in the streets."


Come on, the reporters said. Trivial 
matters aside, what was he really going to 
do as borough president?


"I'm serious," Clancy said. "You can 
talk all you want about the issues. But 
when a guy in my district drives out of 
the driveway and on to a bunch of gaping 
potholes every morning on the way to 
work, and his car lurches and shakes, that 
guy curses the name of the man who's 
supposed to fix the streets, and that's me. 
Each day it happens, that guy curses the 
name-my name. That's plenty of rein-
forcement. And that's why I'm going to 
fix those potholes."


I wasn't there, but I'm sure this story 
is true. Clancy's point was conveyed 
vividly to me during the mayoral cam-
paign, when I was riding with John Marchi 
in his blue Pontiac stationwagon-"my 
limousine,•• he wou1d say-racing through 
the traffic one weekday evening on the 
way to one of the endless engagements he 
made this fall in his bid for the mayoralty.


Having appeared at a raucous annual 
dinner-dance of the Bronx Liquor Dealers' 
Association, Marchi was now speeding 
to a Republican gathering in Queens.


Behind time, the wagon weaved in and 
out of traffic and then, not far from the 
Triborough Bridge, thumped jarringly 
over a pothole. The car's frame shook and 
two of the Senator's aides literally hit the 
ceiling.


"You all right? Are you all right?" 
Marchi asked.


"Ok, I'm ole Just a little shook up," 
came the reply.


"You know," Marchi said to me, 
smiling, "you know, I guess sometimes it 
is just those little things .... "


A week before the election, the last time 
I saw Mayor Lindsay campaign, he was 
speaking to a Jewish synagogue in Fresh 
Meadows, Queens. The Rabbi began his 
introduction with an anecdote.


A few days before, the Rabbi said, be 
was driving to the synagogue when be 
noticed that several lamps in a nearby 
park had been vandalized and broken. He 
contacted the mayor's office that day, be 
recalled, and the following morning the 
lamps had been repaired.


"Mayor Lindsay bas made some mis-
takes," said the Rabbi, "but he's admitted 
them, and he seems now to be on the 
road to correcting at least some of them."


Then, noting that in a Jewish service, 
anyone who gives a sermon has to be a 
rabbi, the spiritual leader of the Fresh 
Meadows Jewish Center introduced the 
Mayor of New York City-"Rabbi 
Lindsay."


1969, of course, proved to be a very 
trying year for Rabbi Lindsay, who last 
winter was the subject of so much scorn 
and vilification, it was hard to believe 
that be wou1dn't be tarred, feathered and 
run out of town before the election, let 
alone suffer the greatest defeat any in-
cumbent ever cou1d have in New York.


Maybe the turning point came when 
the Mets woo, as some have suggested. 
Lindsay is bored by baseball-it's much too 
passive a sport for him-and the night 
before the final game of the World Series, 
which several million of his constituents 
on the street would have given an arm 
and a leg to see, Lindsay was handed his 
schedu1e for the next day. "Christ," the 
mayor said angrily, "do I have to go out 
to the goddarno ballpark again tomorrow?"


But there he was, nonetheless, grinning 
stiffly as champagne flowed down his 
broad shou1ders and over his modishly 
tailored suit. Someone came up to him to 
have him meet Ralph Kiner, the Mets' 
radio announcer.


"Kiner ... Kiner ... ," Lindsay said, 
snapping his fingers, groping for the 
identity of the name. "Ob, yes-I know 
Rabbi Kiner. Where is he?"


On the bulletin board back at Lindsay 
headquarters, campaign workers in mini-
skirts and Bill Blass ties with "Lindsay 
Lindsay Lindsay" written all over them 
moved colored pins across a map of 
Queens County. The pins were colored 
red (for pro-Lindsay), blue Oeaoing to 
Lindsay), green Oeaoing away) and white 
(anti).


Thus, it was the green Jews that Lindsay 
needed to win over. He already had the 
loyalty of blacks, who were generally 
red, except when they owned property-
then they were blue. Most Jews in Man-. 
hattan were blue. In the "outer boroughs" 
the Jews were green, except when they 
had low incomes and lived near blacks. 
Then they were white, as were most 
Italians and Irish.


Thus, the Mayor attended a lifetime of 
Sabbath Services and carried, in the 
glove compartment of his black limousine, 
a yarmu1ke monogrammed with the let-
ters "JVL." Four years ago, a person 
who merely caught a glimpse of can-
didate Lindsay was a probable voter. "He's 
gorgeous," women would say. This ye.ar, 
they looked and said: "He looks so tired. 
He should get some rest."


Lindsay did look tired-his face was 
gaunt. I saw him frequently when he 
looked ashen and skeletal. The mayor 
never seemed to sleep. After final late-
night speeches, he went home for several 
meetings with aides. Retiring at close to 
2:00A.M., he was awake by 6:45A.M. 
preparing for another day that would keep 
him churning past midnight.


By contrast, there were many days 
when Mario Angelo Procaccino made no 
public appearances at all. This, I think, 
tended to irk some reporters, who were 
frequently told only at the last minute to 
rush out to Brooklyn or the Bronx with 
the Controller for, say, a hurried look at 
a desecrated synagogue. Very often, the 
campaign organization neglected to 
provide transportation, and when they 
assembled enough newsmen to watch 
Mario strut up and down a street, the 
candidate said nothing of substance. You 
cou1d always get a couple of photographs 
of his bussing an Italian matron or slap-
oping truck drivers on the back, but cou1d 
such stuff last for a long, long campaign?


I'm told that Procaecino infuriated the 
TV stations when he accepted the New 
York Tinus debate after ignoring invita-
tions from all the networks. He said he 
did it because be wanted Lindsay's state-
ments to appear "in black and white," 
which to this day makes no sense at all. He 
also didn't want Lindsay to "emote" 
before the cameras, Mario said. This,



**Title: The 1969 New York Mayoral Race**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
too, was at least ironic for a man who 
wept openly at his first campaign press 
conference. 


As far as I could see, the press, for the 
most part, began actually trying to like 
Mario Procaccino. They were ready to 
believe that he was, as be said after the 
primary, a good progressive Democrat. 
But the candidate never seemed to give 
these people a chance. His position paper 
on Parks and Recreation was plagiarized. 
He lied. And, on the ABC-TV debate, 
he waved a piece of paper and said: "I 
have here a list of names ... " 


"Dammit," said a reporter I was stand-
ing next to at the time. "I hate Lindsay. 
I can't stand him. But be just got my vote." 


As the campaign progressed, the press's 
Mario Procaccino jokes seemed to get 
nastier. At first it was amusing that 
Procaccino, while campaigning in China-
town, declared that Lindsay didn't have 
a "Chinaman's chance" to win the elec-
tion, or that he told a group of Negroes 
that "my heart is as black as yours," or 
that be vowed, if elected, to return the 
city to "an inept administration." Eventu-
ally, they started saying that Mario was 
so confident of winning the election, he 
had already ordered the linoleum for the 
Gracie Mansion living room. 


What had all this-the green Jews, the 
Mets, the hysterical press conferences, 
the rallies-to do with the issues of where 
New York was going, and how each can-
didate might take it there? Very little, 
for of course the campaign, like all other 
campaigns, was one of personalities and 
potholes, not issues. 


For Lindsay, having inspected shiny 
new snow equipment in Queens, and 
having repaired the pavement in Brooklyn 
and the Bronx, succeeded, by the cam-
paign's end, in also conveying a personality 
of calm, efficient and humane liberalism. 
He had overcome his identification with 
the rich and poor and was able to eke 
out enough support in the middle class 
to carry him through Election Day. Ulti-
mately, I think, these voters decided 
that the job-"the second toughest job in 
America"-was just too big for a puffy 
little Bronx version of the Great Gilder-
sleeve who seemed to be forever trundling 
up and down the streets of Sheepshead 
Bay and Far Rockaway jabbing his finger 
at cameras and microphones, shouting, 
"Who do yah trust, folks? Do yah trust 
John Lindsay? (No!) Do yah trust Mario 
Procaccino? (Yes!)" 


It's not, of course, that the voters, in 
responding to a sophisticated media cam-
paign, rejected the "Old Politic.s," what-
ever that is. Instead, the voters embraced 
a well-run version of the former, over a 
disastrously-run version of the latter. 


This year's campaign bad enough con-
tradictions to make it as unpredictable, 
Max Lemer would say, as a horse race on 
a muddy track. There were no political 
experts to listen to, and no instincts to 
go by. But to anyone with even a passing 
interest in politics, the campaign, until 
the bitter end-when reporters seemed tCI 
be punchy with the grotesquerie of it aU-
was a circus of fascinating activity. 


The reporter's view of all this is, not 
surprisingly, an ironic one. On the one 
hand, he is the confidante, the man who 
travels in the corridors of power-even in 
New York's gothic Municipal Building, 
where they get pretty narrow-the insider. 
the one whose shoulder every Procaccino 
aide seemed to cry on when the going 
got rough. What can we do, one top 
Procaccino adviser asked a reporter, to 
somehow give Mario the stature, to make 
people believe he has some ability? The 


reporter suggested that they arrange to 
have the candidate testify in Washing-
ton, D.C., before a Congressional com-
mittee, on a sophisticated and perfectly 
abstruse subject like finance. After all, the 
candidate was the Controller. So the 
Procaccino staff tried to get a committee 
to listen to him, but the only subject 
anyone in Washington could agree to was 
"Pornography and the U.S. Mail." 


On the other hand, the newsman is 
mostly an outsider, a voyeur. The other 
day, for example, about twenty newsmen 
from all media stood shivering on the 
porch of Gracie Mansion as Mayor 
Lindsay met in the warm inside with the 
defeated John Marchi. 


The scheduled time for picture-taking 
and interviews had long passed, without 
an appearance from the principles, and 
now the sun bad gone down behind the 
sterile-looking luxury apartment buildings 
on East End A venue. It was bitter cold, 
but we had to wait outside, because in 
New York City there is only a tiny press 
room in the basement on the other side 
of the mayor's house, much too small for 
aU of us, and, right now, much too out of 
the way. 


A reporter stared out at the bleak and 
gray scene of the East River, the man-
sion's backyard lawn and the children's 
fragile tree-house nestled in the lone and 
leafless maple in the center of the yard. 
The reporter stamped his foot to keep the 
circulation going. "Goddamn mayor," 
he muttered. "You think they could afford 
a goddamn press-room in the 'greatest 
city in the world.' I see they already took 
the phones out of the basement. and you 
have to use the pay phones now. The 
campaign is over." 


Lindsay·s press secretary, wearing a 
polka-dot tie and wire-rim glasses, bounced 
out and said they would be ready in fifteen 
minutes. "Come on, we're freezing out 
here," shouted the reporter. He turned to 
me and muttered, "I never wanted to 
vote for that bastard anyway." 


**Title: Yale Med: how long on top of the Hill?**
**Author: Jim Ross**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

"Yale's medical research goes 
on in laboratories that sit in a 
neighborhood plagued with 
several health problems." 


"The administration's attitude 
had the same effect on the 
students and faculty as Richard 
Nixon's statements have had 
on the anti-war movement." 


On Saturday, November 1, at ll:JOA. M., 
Barry Rand, a third-year Yale Medical 
student, rose to address more than one 
thousand members of the American 
Association of Medical Colleges at their 
annual convention in Cincinnati. He told 
them: "Good medicine is not being 
practiced at Yale-because it is the needs of 
Yale as an institution which are placed 
above the needs of the people it should 
serve." 


As Rand was speaking, Yale President 
Kingman Brewster, Jr. was on his way 
from the Cincinnati airport to the same 
convention, where he was scheduled to 
speak at noon. Brewster arrived a few min .. 
utes early-but too late to hear Rand. He 
sat down in the front row of the auditorium 
in time to bear the speaker who followed 
Rand. Just before he was to speak, 
Brewster learned for the first time that 
Barry Rand-who was sitting two seats 
away from him-had also addressed the 
convention. Then he stepped to the podium 
and quipped, "Not only do we have our 
challenges at home but we have to bring 
them with us ... I think Mr. Rand should 
know that Halloween is over." 


But no one laughed. 


Brewster proceeded to speak for the next 
twenty minutes about university-commun-
ity relations. Four "notions" as to why 
Yale could not assume a major role in the 
community underlined his remarks: 


"We do not have the competence to take 
the responsibility for community service 
enterprises on a large scale, [since] in gen-
eral universities are not good managers; 


"If we were to take on this responsibility 
we would perform our principal task less 
well, [that of] pushing the frontiers of 
general scientific inquiry and sharing the 
results [with] the next generation ... In 
the search for truth we cannot undercut or 
dilute or distract or distort what we are 
best at; 


"No matter how useful it is for the 
training of students or for the problems it 
offers for study and research, the manage-
ment of a community service activity 
involves obligations which are at least 
different from, and may on occasion be 
adverse to, the interests of the academy; 


"In the case of private universities at 
least, there is a basic misfit between com-
munity needs and the sources of our 
principal support ... Political pressure 
from the ghetto neighborhoods in New 
Haven upon my institution, however, is 
likely to fall on politically deaf ears in 
Hartford, which is not in the habit of sup-
porting Yale. The same neigh~rhood 
pressure will also fall on financtally deaf 
ears among my out-of-town alumni, who 
are not in the habit of supporting New 
Haven." 


Brewster added to his four notions the 
idea that "society, too, will be better served 
if we continue to limit our proprietary 
responsibility to our principal task of dis-
covery, conservation and transmission 
of knowledge." He encouraged the local, 
State and federal agencies to "pull up their 
socks" and deal with community problems 
so that the universities can "go back to 
work." 


Brewster's speech was well received by 
the AAMC. Rand did not receive the same 
reaction. Rand had broken up the placid 
cadence of praise for medical-community 
relations which seemed pleasing to the


Jim Ross, a member of the Yale Daily 
News, is a sophomore in Ez;ra Stiles 
College. 

deans and administrators who made up the 
audience. The men who had been com-
fortably propped on an elbow were startled 
to the edge of their chairs. Rand had not 
intended, of course, to pacify the distin-
guished gentlemen when he said that 
"there is a new generation of health science 
students ... tired of talk that does not 
match action, tired of talk of peace and 
acts of war, talk of service, acts of control, 
talk of concerns, acts of abuse ... we are 
tired of talk, tired of non-action, tired of 
reasons why not." 


Rand went to Cincinnati as a representa-
tive of the Yale University Community 
Crisis Committee, an organization of 
health service students, faculty, and em-
ployees of the Yale Medical Center con-
cerned with Yale's relation to the city 
of New Haven. 


There is a growing concern about this in 
the medical school-and for good reason. 
The School of Medicine and the Yale-New 
Haven Hospital are the two institutions at 
Yale that relate most directly to the com-
munity. Unlike other graduate schools, the 
medical school cannot operate with books 
alone. It needs people. And the Hill neigh-
borhood, the ghetto that begins at the 
Medical Center's doorstep, provides most 
of them. Yale's medical facilities make it 
the primary resource for health care in the 
city. But for all too long the patients it 
serves have been viewed as simply adjuncts 
to the teaching and research duties of the 
medical school, not as people to be cared 
for on their own terms. In the words of 
Margaret Leslie, Hill resident and Execu-
tive Director of the Citizen's Committee 
for the Development of Education, "Yale 
Jives sumptuously in the midst of poverty, 
offering crumbs that fall from its table." 


What Yale has in the midst of poverty 
is a complex that encompasses schools of 
nursing and public health, the Yale Psychi-
atric Institute, the Yale Child Study Center 
and the Connecticut Mental Health Cen-
ter.lts budget is more than $60 million a 
year. At any one time the number of 
personnel-students, faculty employees and 
patients-totals more than six thousand. 


Nearly seventy-five percent of the 
medical school's operations are financed 
through federal research grants-one rea-
son, perhaps, that research and not 
community health care is at present the 
primary activity. Another reason is that, as 
President Brewster stated, research does 
bring many real and important benefits to 
Yale as an institution. Much of the nation's 
leading medical research is done here; 
Yale scientists do, as Brewester said in Cin-
cinnati, "push the frontiers of genuine 
scientific inquiry in the search for truth." 


What is ironic is that they are unable to 
push a much closer frontier-the one right 
outside their laboratory windows. For 
Yale's research goes on in the middle of a 
neighborhood plagued with severe health 
problems. 


When federal funds do become available 
for community service projects, the grants 
must be processed and approved by Yale, 
making it all the more difficult for money 
to filter down to the community. Still, some 
funds are not channeled totally into the 
research laboratory. In July of 1966, Dr. 
Max Pepper and Dr. Leonard Fichten-
1;1aum received a federal sta.ffing grant to 
implement and experiment with a relative-
ly new and unsophisticated field:-com- . 
oity psychiatry. Some called thetr expen-
iment a success and others, a failure, but all


agreed that it caused cleavages in the 
Medical Center that remain to this day. 


Community medicine as Pepper and 
Fichtenbaum were about to try it is essen-
tially preventive medicine. It emphasizes 
the importance of dealing with the envi-
ronment of the individual. The theory 
behind this type of medicine is that only 
by dealing with the source-the conditions 
in the patient's community-will doctors be 
able to reduce the incidence, length and 
severity of psychiatric problems. 


Pepper and Fichtenbaum organized a 
unit within the Connecticut Mental Health 
Center- a part of the Yale Medical Center 
funded by the state-to service residents of 
the Hill and nearby West Haven. 


With ten staff members, including three 
residents, an expansive program, little 
funding and 72,000 potential patients, 
Pepper and Fichtenbaum entered the 
neighborhoods. The staff discovered a need 
for programs for alcoholism, drug abuse, 
mental retardation, juvenile delinquency, 
educational and vocational handicaps, 
neglect of illegitimate children, disorders 
of the aged, adult crime, family life and a 
sense of loss of community identity. 


They decided to attack the problems 
immediately and hoped that training 
would evolve as the staff listened andre-
sponded to the community. The unit 
could establish contacts and solidify a base 
for operations. Patients were not placed 
on waiting lists and had to be seen within 
one week of initial contact. The staff also 
reached out into the community with 
speaking engagements, seminars and home 
visits. The pace was hectic. 


In the experimental region of about 
72,000 people the unit tried to develop a 
program of total psychiatric care. This 
meant consulting with community agen-
cies on social disorganization and public 
education. It meant treating as many 
patients as possible and at the same time 
involving patients in administrative 
decisions. The Hill-West Haven unit had 
to work with the community rather than 
for the community. In addition, the unit 
was designed to maintain the highest 
quality of research and training in the 
traditional therapeutic services. The unit 
supplied emergency services, in-patient 
service and an out-patient clinic, educa-
tional and consultation services and a staff 
of field workers. 


Within the community, tangible results 
were soon evident. The unit was interact-
ing successfully with the neighborhood. 
A Hill Interagency Council (HIC) was 
created to coordinate the functions of 
community agencies-social, educational 
and religious. The Hill Health Council 
developed from HIC, and the Council 
later established the Hill Health Center. 


By the summer of 1967, the priorities of 
the unit had become the priorities of the 
community. Then the unit's role as a part 
of the community was tested dramatically. 
That summer the New Haven inner-city 
exploded in the heat of August into a major 
disturbance-or, in the words of the local 
press, into a race riot. Pepper and his staff 
sensed growing hysteria in the HiU as a 
result of bomb threats and fear of police 
action. The second floor of the CMHC was 
taken over as a barracks for state troopers 
(who were later moved), further upsetting 
the community. 


At the height of the disturbances on 
August 18, Max Pepper was serving as 
Acting Director of the CMHC, for both 
the regular director, Dr. Gerald K.Jerman, 
and the newly-a pointed dean of the School 
of Medicine, Dr. Fredrick C. Redlich, 
were out of town on vacation. Pepper saw 
his chance to plunge the CMHC deeply 
intp community affairs. He called an 
emergency staff meeting at 3 A.M., with 
Dr. Fichtenbaum and Dean Florence S. 
Wald of the School of Nursing among 
those present. The group decided to take 
advantage of its good prestige within the 
Hill and responded to the situation by 
setting up a twenty-four-hour service unit 
and a fact-finding team to re-establish 
communication within the community. 


Pepper and his staff asked Mayor Richard 
Lee to meet with them to develop plans for 
restoring order. Lee refused. 


Then, due to the increasing fears of 
further trouble in the Hill, community 
representatives approached Pepper and 
asked to bus residents out of the area. 
Pepper responded with a CMHC-spon-
sored busing program to emergency 
housing outside the Hill, such as faculty 
homes, using the CMHC building as a 
temporary stopover. The CMHC's involve-
ment in New Haven's unrest was ac-
celerating. 


City officials were enraged at the busing 
program, and charged the CMHC with 
injecting terrorism into the community. 
Dean Redlich and Dr. K.Jerman returned 
from their vacations to condemn the 
CMHC's actions. K.Jerman asked for and 
received review power over Pepper's 
decisions and immediately ceased the 
busing program. By the time of the admin-
istrators' return, however, the disturbances 
bad subsided. It was too late to erase 
whatever impact Pepper's actions had had 
on the community. All Redlich could do 
was accuse Pepper of having been too 
partisan and too involved-and claim Pep-
per had exceeded the limits of his area 
of competence in psychiatry. 


Pepper viewed the crisis as an opportu-
nity to break down barriers and inspire 
trust. The Yale medical school bad, for the 
first time, taken meaningful steps in the 
area of community involvement. The com-
munity identified with the CMHC and 
trusted Pepper and his staff. But such com-
munity action was not acceptable to 
the administrative establishment of the 
Medical Center. Soon Max Pepper left 
Yale to become a director of community 
medicine in St. Louis. 


The Hill remembers Pepper. Ernie 
Osborne, Acting Director of Yale's 
Council on Community Affairs and then 
Director of Redevelopment for the Hill 
Interagency Council, says "Everything you 
see in health services in New Haven is to a 
great degree the result of Max Pepper's 
work. We will never truly realize what he 
has done." 


Two years later, the CMHC remains the 
most community-oriented facility of the 
medical school. But after Pepper's depar-
ture, it bas not been able to exchange ideas 
with its neighbors nearly as effectively. The 
research-service conflict still exists in the 
CMHC; its priorities are no longer as close 
to those of the community. 


The present administration knows the 
gulf that exists between it and the commu-
nity. It attempted to close the gap this past 
year, when in April CMHC Director 
Klerman appointed Fred Harris, former 
President of the Hill Parents' Association 
and a recognized community leader, to the 
trial position of Special Assistant to the 
Director of the CMHC. K.Jerman made the 
appointment so that Harris might "sensi-
tize us to how we were being perceived by 
the black community" and help the staff to



**The Hill Crisis at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
understand the special needs of the area's 
residents. But the result of KJerman's 
efforts was another crisis. 

During the six months from April to 
September, Harris persistently argued the 
community's point of view as he plunged 
head first into the services-research argu-
ment. He fought for better care and con-
stantly reminded the staff, director and 
the medical school dean of his people's 
problems. Harris listed ten complaints: 
1. The staff is not responsive to black 
and Puerto Rican people in the in-patient 
units. 2. There are not enough black 
people accepted for treatment at the 
Mental Health Center. 3. Too many black 
and Puerto Rican people are sent to the 
Connecticut Valley State Hospital [a 
facility poorly equipped for mental health 
care]. 4. CMHC does not deal with the 
major problems presented by the poor, 
blacks and Puerto Ricans. 5. There is no 
Spanish-speaking staff. 6. The community 
staff is not large enough. 7. There is poor 
training in urban problems for profes-
sionals. 8. Research projects involving 
patients are undertaken without informing 
them. 9. There are not enough fully trained 
people seeing the poor, black and Puerto 
Rican patients. 10. The Community has 
no official voice in setting the priorities of 
the CMHC. Harris and the community 
felt they could not trust the professionals 
at the CMHC. Their needs were no longer 
being met. 

On September 2, Dean Redlich met with 
H arris and community residents to discuss 
some of H arris's objections. Dr. Morton 
Reiser, who had taken over as director of 
the CMHC one day earlier, was also pre-
sent. H arris's trial period as community 
consultant was nearing its end, and Hill 
residents were anxious to know whether he 
would be reappointed. 

As the discussion drew to a close, Harris 
and the Hill residents wanted Redlich to 
sign a statement including some of the 
changes he had verbally proposed at the 
meeting. Redlich refused to put his words 
into writing and began to leave. Then 
Harris, in anger, shook Redlich-and the 
shake set off shock waves that formed the 
core of the new controversy of the CMHC. 
Redlich saw Harris's action as a serious 
disruption. He described the events in a 
memo in the following way: "At that point 
Mr. Harris lunged at the Dean [Redlich], 
grabbed him by the throat and used vitu-
perative and threatening language. He was 
controlled within a brief moment by other 
community representatives." 

Mary Charlson, a medical student, saw 
things differently. "Harris just shook him 
a little bit," she says. "The Dean began the 
exchange of 'vituperative language.' " 

Shortly after the meeting Redlich ad-
dressed a letter to the Hill Health Board 
deploring the tactics used and reaffirming 
his unwillingness to act under threat and 
coercion. A September 29 statement by 
Dean Redlich outlines the events that 
followed the controversial meeting, and 
adds a vital point: "On September 16, 
1969, Dr. Reiser informed Mr. Harris in a 
private interview that he was unwilling, 
because of the behavior of Mr. Harris in 
the meeting of September 2, to offer him a 
new appointment as Special Assistant to 
the Director." 

Reiser then met with a newly organized 
commun ity group called Seven-Together 
(which represented seven inner-city neigh-
borhoods) on September 17 and agreed as 
an act of good faith to accept a person 
nominated by them to fill the position of 
community adviser. Reiser took care to 
express his desire not to have Harris re-
nominated. 

Seven-Together did, however, nom-
inate Fred Harris. Reiser honored his 
commitment and supported Harris's 
reappointment. 

Dean Redlich, however, continued to 
disapprove of the appointment, and in a 
September 29 memo stated: "In keeping 
with the personnel practices of Yale 
University and the state, officials from 
both institutions indicated they would not 
reinstate Mr. Harris in their employ. Both 
institutions based their decision on the fact 
that he had used coercive behavior against 
an officer of the university. In addition, 
these institutions are not willing to delegate 
the ultimate decision of employment to an 
outside group, especially if the employee 
is not acceptable to the employer." Redlich 
then suggested that Harris could serve as a 
community-paid "advocate" in the future. 

Redlich's intransigence helped the 
faltering Seven-Together to organize 
behind a common purpose. They de-
manded a position for Harris .within the 
CMHC structure, and rejected Redlich's 
compromise, for they lacked the funds 
themselves to pay Harris's salary as a com-
munity "advocate." 

Seven-Together was not the only organi-
zation that Redlich's decision sprung into 
action. In late September tbe' University 
Community Crisis Committee was born, 
and began its campaign for Harris with a 
rally in front of Harkness Medical Dor-
mitory at which speakers from the faculty, 
student body and community asked the 
university to honor its commitment to the 
community. Dr. Morris Wessel of the 
medical school faculty told the gathering: 
"What is really at stake is the ability-or 
the inability-of this university to meet its 
verbalized commitments in an honorable 
manner." 

A petition circulated by the Crisis com-
mittee urged the CMHC to rehire Harris. 
On September 30, UCCC representatives 
met with Provost Charles Taylor Jr., Dean 
Redlich, Dr. Reiser and medical school 
department chairmen. They read the 
petition to Provost Taylor and a student 
spokesman told the administrators that 
the university was "taking from the com-
munity and not putting back into it. This 
makes our education as students here 
difficult." Redlich and Taylor answered 
by affirming the University's stand which 
prevents employing a man who used 
coercive action against an official of the 
university. Taylor added: "Naturally the 
university should make its own decision 
about the employment of any individual." 

On October 7, President Brewster 
presented essentially the same answer to 
the UCCC in a private meeting. About ten 
students and community people picketed 
outside Woodbridge Hall, carrying signs 
that said "yALE USES THE COMMUNITY" 
and "yALE DON"T KEEP ITS WORD." 

The next day, the Yale Corporation 
met at Woodbridge Hall. The UCCC tried 
to arrange a meeting with Corporation 
members but received no answer to its 
inquiries. As the Corporation met inside, 
the UCCC picketed Woodbridge HaU 
again. 

When the Corporation broke for l~ch, . 
William Horowitz a member who lives m 
New H aven, walk~ out of Woodbridge 
Hall and ran into his old friend Dr. Morris 
Wessel, who was among the picketers. 
"HeUo, Morris, nice to see you again," 
said Horowitz. 

"Hello, Bill," said Wessel. 

"What are you doing standing out 
here?" Horowitz asked. 

"I'm picketing the Corporation," replied 
Dr. Wessel. "Why don't you join us? Then 
you'll be on the right side of the issue." 

Horowitz laughed and walked away.


The administration's attitude had the same 
effect upon the dissenting students and 
faculty as Richard Nixon's statements have 
had on the anti-war movement. It only 
served to strengthen the opposition. 

But the anger in the medical school is 
not tied to this one issue. Opposition, as 
the Max Pepper case showed, began l~ng 
before the Redlich-H arris confrontation, 
and gives every indication of continuing 
long after, as Barry Rand proved in 
Cincinnati. 

In his speech Rand ex pres~~~ student 
sentiment of the UCCC. He satd: I came 
to Yale seeking exceJience in medical 
education, seeking training which would 
teach me to serve those people who des-
perately need health care. Yet how can 
I learn good medicine where good med-
icine is not being practiced? 

"President Brewster, why is it that Yale's 
response to two of the major healt~ . 
problems in New H aven-drug a~dtc~IOD 
and alcoholism-is largely one of mstltu-
tional indifference? Already I have had to 
send alcoholics back to the streets b.e~~use 
the Yale Medical Center has no facilttt~ to 
treat them. Already I have had to commtt 
a nineteen-year-old mother with t"':o . 
young children to the state me.ntalmstitu· 
tion ... when she sought help m our 
Emergency Room to overcome be~ drug 
addiction. With Yale's new expenstve 
federally-financed methadone ~arch 
program, why was there no place m Ne~ 
Haven to assist her? Why have communrty 
demands for detoxification of beCs in the 
Yale-administered Community M_e~tal 
Health Center been denied? Why ts tt tJ;lat 
Yale, the major provider of health ~~rvtces 
in New Haven, is unwilling to partJctpate 
significantly in the C?~unity·in~tiated 
fight against lead pOtso.nmg? P~e~rdent 
Brewster, isn't preventive medtcme a . 
priority at Yale? ... It is appa~ent t~at m-
ferior community health servtce eXIsts at 
the Yale-New Haven Medical Center." 

Medical school students at Yale rarely 
have time for activism. Their days are 
filled with classes, labs and hours of ??s· 
pi tal duty to the point of making pohttcal 
involvement almost a luxury. Indeed, the 
community issue now at the fore is the only 
time in recent memory that a sizeable core 
of medical school students have been 
concerned enough about a cause to find 
time to fight for it. 

Many faculty members are ~y~pathe_trc 
- but others are apathetic, unwilhng to r~k 
their jobs or pleased with their opportu~­
ties for research and teaching and choosrng 
not to rock the boat. "'Ibe only r~n 
some faculty members would constde.r , 
doing anything at all for~~ commumty, 
one medical student says, ts because ~ey 
know they have to walk through the Htll 
to get to their cars at night." 

One faculty member whose concern for 
the Hill goes somewhat deeper~ Dr. 
Lowell Levin, Professor of Pubhc Healt? 
in the School of Epidimeology and P ubhc 
Health. A sincere and vocal opponent 
of medical school policies, Levin says, 
continued on page 14 


**A Day-Glo Campaign**
**Author: Richard Margolin**
**Page number(s): 9**

Take a guy hip enough to run a rock concert hall, add some 
psychedelic posters, run him for the City Council and you've 
got ... a losing candidate. 

Ordinarily, political defeats are times of 
bitterness and tears. But when Steve 
Nelson lost his bid for the Cambridge City 
Council, he went to see the Jefferson Air-
plane in concert. Since victory had looked 
dubious, he bad his Pre-Defeat Victory 
Party the night before the election. But 
that's the kind of campaign it had been 
all along. 

Nelson's victory would have been little 
short of a miracle, since it would have 
marked the first election to public office 
of a representative (or more precisely, a 
non-representative) of the Day-Glo Gen-
eration, the American Subculture of 
Youth. True, some hippies did try to take 
over a rural Ca1ifornia town, and Tim 
Leary is running erratically for governor 
of that state, but neither of these efforts 
have successfully focused the enthusiasm 
and ideas of the Woodstock world on a 
concrete and relatively attainable goal. No 
one who bas passed the acid test of 
Haigbt-Ashbury consciousness and who 
moves with youth has yet really tried to 
break into the straight world of politics 
and apply the new thoughts to political 
problems. 

I had a hard time believing Nelson at 
first. You expect from experience that 
every politician will play the old political 
games of on the record/ off the record 
and "don't say I said so, but .... " Nelson 
doesn't do that, though I suppose it's 
partly because he isn't an inveterate po-
litico (this was his first election foray) and 
just doesn't know about these games in 
the first place. But that's just a superficial 
reason. Deep down, he doesn't play 
political games because they are totally 
irrelevant to what he is trying to do. When 
a candidate's whole personality seems to 
say, " Drop all your political pretensions, 
and let's just rap," you have to take 
notice. 

When I first walked into his office (which 
doubled as an apartment) and screamed 
over Janis Joplin on the radio that I 
wanted to see the candidate, a girl said 
that he was out getting a ticket to the 
Jefferson Airplane concert-preparing, as 
it were, for the election night celebration. 

Well, in many ways Steve Nelson could 
almost be a likely person to become a 
candidate for a city council anywhere, let 
alone in Cambridge, Massachusetts. 
Originally the product of the Great Middle 
Class, he was not spared the years of 
schooling which are an integral part of 
the creation of the modern American 
space cowboy. In his case, it was a B.S. in 
math at Cornell and a law degree and 
a degree in Public Administration at 
Harvard. 

With that much education it was fitting 
that Nelson's first job was as a sandal-
maker in Cambridge. During college, he 
bad become deeply interested in rock 
music, and not long ago he was approached 
by the owner of the Boston Tea Party, 
Boston's new rock concert hall, and asked 
to be its manager. 

More recently, he helped found Boston's 
first underground rock station, WBCN. 
With Nelson's help, a station that bad 
been flatteringly beaming out Mantovani 
to its dyspeptic Yankee listeners suddenly 
found itself the lifeline of Boston's grow-
ing hip community. He recalls, "The first 
time we went on the air with a rock 
format, we planned something to blow 
everyone's mind. We were going to do an 
Orson Welles trip with people rushing 
around grabbing microphones and simu-
lating a takeover. And then we would 
have done a rock version of the War of 
the Worlds. But the station owners were so 
totally freaked by this idea that we had to 
settle for The Alternate Plan. When we 
began, it was 10:30 on a Sunday night, 
and they had been playing Mantovani or 
something. Suddenly, Frank Zappa and 
the Mothers of Invention screamed 'Are 
you bung up? Are you bung up?' at the 
audience, and then we went into Cream 
at full volume. The telephones were ring-
ing all night from irate listeners, and in 
the morning, companies who bad used 
our station for Muzak found themselves 
blasting their corridors with that throb-
bing rock beat. It was quite a scene." 

Then Nelson decided that what was 
good for WBCN listeners would be even 
better for the rest of Cambridge-so the 
campaign for the City Council took off. 
Financed with $1800 from Nelson's own 
pocket, there were no claims that the 
candidate would save the city from evil 
or establish law 'n' order.lnstead, a bill-
board with the words .. All Together 
Now," dotted Cambridge, and then came 
a two-minute film showing Nelson walking 
in the country and Nelson on Cambridge's 
main street, with the Beatles' "Come 
Together" as background music. And 
then there were the posters. Some were 
designed by Nelson and others were de-
signed by the famous Mouse/Kelly team, 
who were among the originators of 
psychedelic art. 

Nelson, when it came down to it, didn't 
care what people thought about what 
was happening, but the people who tried 
to explain his campaign to the rest of the 
world were in a difficut position. The 
political radicals tried to write him off as 
a hippie-or worse, a "hippie capitalist" 
-just having a good time. To them, just 
like to conservatives, he wasn't grim 
enough. I asked Nelson if he thought his 
campaign was serious enough in view of 
this criticism, and be said, "Calvinism 
has made this country far too serious. Why 
can't enjoyment be valid in itself? Why 
should people always feel guilty about 
having a good time? The country puts so 
much emphasis on being productive, 
regardless of the consequences. That's 
wrong. If people would co-operate and 
just groove together creatively, the pro-
duction would be a natural result, and 
everyone would be so much happier .... 

''I'm acting on an entirely different 
level from the SDS. I'm trying to work 
out a total life style that goes outside the 
whole spectrum of conservative-liberal-
radicallabels. People who live in cities 
realize every day just bow insane mass 
society is. More and more people are 
understanding that we've got to slow the 
whole thing down. I mean, where are we 
going with all of technology anyway? 
Doesn't that matter a whole lot?" 

As for liberals, they were equally leery 
of the campaign. Nelson says that "I've 
found that liberals just want specific 
answers to the same old issues; rent con-
trol-which I support-and things like that. 
But I'm not too concerned with issues. 
I don't mind admitting that I don't know 
a whole lot about some of the issues, and 
I haven't made up my mind about others. 
If I were elected, I'd want to spend a lot 
of time just learning how this city really 
runs. I don't think it's right to take a stand 
on issues that I don't know enough about 
just to appease certain groups of voters. 
So I say that I don't have all the answers, 
but I just present the ideas I do have and 
show the general bag I'm in, and let the 
voters' imaginations take it from there." 

Steve Nelson didn't win his election. 
He got about 500 votes compared to 2400 
for the first place candidate. Cambridge 
may have Harvard, but down yonder by 
the Charles it's got its share of factories, 
too. But still, that's not bad. Where will 
he go from here? "I think I'U just spend 
some time thinking. People ask me what 
I do for a living, and I always have a hard 
time explaining. I just do a lot of things 
that tie together in some weird way. I 
have my rock club in Amherst, and I'll 
probably just go on doing more of the 
same." 

Nelson does have one new plan. He 
recently offered himself as a candidate for 
the Harvard Corporation. So far, bow-
ever, Nathan Pusey hasn't come running 
over to endorse him. 

There were those who charged that Steve 
Nelson's unique uncampaign was really 
a carefully put-together marketing job of 
reverse psychology. But he is vehement 
in denying this criticism. "I can't agree 
with the radicals that selling something 
that is good makes it bad. The Peace and 
Freedom Party people were angry at me 
for using the straight media too much. 
All I had done was prepare a press re-
lease when I filed suit asking for rent 
control in Cambridge. And the news-
papers reprinted it in full. The Peace and 
Freedom people were just angry that they 
didn't get any coverage. Advertisers are 
out there every day using the best tech-
niques to seU trash, and they succeed! So 
why is it wrong to use good methods to 
sell something that is good? I think it 
would be a bad mistake not to use the 
media as effectively as possible. After all, 
we can't move back from the technological 
age, so we might as well adapt to it. I 
think companies will begin to seU peace 
along with their product. Is that bad? The 
other day I saw an ad for a bread com-
pany that said 'Make Sandwiches, Not 
War', and I thought it was groovy."~ 
Richard Margolin, a sophomore in Har-
vard College, has worked on Tim Leary's 
campaign for Governor of California 
and Herman Badillo's campaign for 
Mayor of N~ York as well as Steve 
Nelso,(s Cambridge campaign.



**Title: The Stones are Rolling (and Rocking) Again**
**Author: Patrick Lydon**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ill The New Journal! November 23, 1969 
The Stones are Rolling 
.(and Rocking) Again 
by Patrick Lydon 
The Rolling Stones, who are currently on 
a national tour, will be performing 
at Madison Square Garden on No-
vember 27 and 28. The 35,000 seats for 
the performance were sold within three 
days. The following is an account of an 
appearance the Stones made before 
a record crowd last summer at Hyde 
Park in london. The author, Patrick 
Lydon, is a freshman in Morse College 
and has written for the New York Times 
and the Boston Globe. 

It was a beautiful day, it was a giant 
crowd, it was a great rock'n'roll band. 
The Rolling Stones's free concert last 
July was one of those very big events, 
those events which surprise everyone, 
where a situation arises which almost 
determines itself. Participants both do 
what is natural and feel that they are a 
part of something very much larger 
than themselves, something that they 
feel a personal affinity with and a 
loyalty to. In the end, it was Mick 
Jagger. 

Five thousand people came on Friday 
night and slept over so they would be 
right down in front of the huge stage. 
By 10:30 in the morning, there were 
50,000 people in the Cockpit in Hyde 
Park, a natural bowl facing the stage. 
When the Third Ear Band opened the 
show at 1:00, the crowd estimates were 
around 200,000. 

The crowd was infinitely exotic-
American tourists who read about the 
concert in the morning papers; secre-
taries sun-bathing in bikinis; hippies, 
smiling quietly, dressed in kaleidoscope 
color costumes; hippie girls in billowing 
angel robes, bits of Victorian lace and 
glittering Indian silver. Everywhere 
were the schoolboys in their weekend 
moddy gear and scruffy hair.lt was hard 
to tell who was hip and who was not 
because everyone looked weird. Maybe 
they were all hip that day. 

The Hell's Angels came from all over 
England for the show. They always find 
their way to a crowd, and they dig rock 
'n'roll. But when they arrived, the 
producers hired them as stewards, as 
policemen for the day. There were no 
more than a handful of london police 
there. The Angels came because they 
dug the Stones and because, "Mick 
Jagger, he's a rebel, too." But once they 
took their duties the object was "to 
prove that the Hell's Angels aren't just a 
bunch of fugs." They were proud that 
they didn't start tights. All afternoon 
they were helpful, rushing to rescue the 
girls that fainted and taking them to the 
first aid station and generally keeping 
order. Wild Child in his black leather 
jacket-painted on the back and studded 
on the front, under his Nazi helmet with 
swastikas painted on, behind his shades 
-he was in control of his troops. An 
organizer told him there was a crush on 
the left side of the stage. "Crush, what 
crush?" and he was off to uncrush what-
ever was there. He enjoyed being 
today's hero, but he understood he was 
there to protect the Stones. Hell's 
Angels replacing cops, rescuing faint-
ing girls, protecting expensive cameras 
- being proud of it. That makes a big 
day. 

Behind the stage the assorted stars 
waited with the friends of the Stones, 
eating cold ham and salad. Every face 
was somehow familiar. Ginger Baker 
was there with his wife and babies, The 
Incredible String Band, Donovan, Julie 
Felix, Marcia Hunt. John lennon meant 
to be there but had had a car accident 
only day~ before. Photographers 
roamed everywhere. 

It was a long afternoon. The crowds 
came early and the Stones weren't to be 
on until 5:20. But everyone was happy 
just to be there. The crowd rarely made 
any disturbance, digging most every-
thing that came by. The Third e., Band 
was followed by King Crimson. Screw 
came on next and then old rhythm 'n' 
blues man Alexis Korner. None of the 
bands did particularly well, but it was 
rockin' and funkin', and that is what 
counted. 

Family followed Alexis Korner, and 
they were good-very good. Roger 
Chapman, the lead singer, was at peak 
force, dancing wildly, smashing tam-
bourines. !n the crowd, a thin African 
boy rose up, jeans hanging from his 
waist, bare from there up but for 
an orange scarf around his head. He 
danced trancelike, body and arms jerk-
ing gently without form, without 
the dogmatic rhythm of American pop 
dancing yet with an implicit sense of the 
music. Someone below him blew soap 
bubbles, and he danced among them. 
Without ever moving his feet he was 
complete fluidity. He could have gone 
on forever. 

Farther back, another dancer stood 
up. A taller, stronger boy with shoulder 
length hair, he gracefully, relentless-
ly pounded the rhythm with his head, 
stretching his arms, twisting at the 
waist, writhing desperately, convulsed 
by the muscular effort and dripping 
with sweat in the hot sun. Another boy 
rose near him, and a red-dressed girl 
joined the African. It was the music, 
the sun 

While Pete Brown and the Battered 
Ornaments played the final set, the 
Stones arrived back stage in an armored 
truck. The Hell's Angels quickly gath-
ered around the back door of the truck 
to protect the band- but they slipped out 
the side before anyone could see them. 
For awhile, they stayed out of sight in a 
promotion trailer, but Jagger soon came 
to the door. Standing separated from 
everyone surging toward him, he was 
prettier than ever, smiling with a gentle 
contempt. Cameras shot from every 
d irection while the Mick licked his lips 
and puckered his huge grotesque 
mouth, showing it off for all the sex it is. 
He stood and blew kisses to the chickies, 
his lips hanging in their sullen pout. His 
hair seemed longer, parted in the 
middle, hanging softly on his shoulders. 
When he wanted to listen and talk, he 
did. "We're doing this today just be-
cause we wanna, man. We thought of it 
six weeks ago, and then after Blind 
F.ith did it we knew we just had to do it 
- it's such a gasss." (Jumpin-Jack Flash, 
such a gasss.) Someone asked about 
Brian Jones who split with the group a 
month earlier and who died only days 
before. "We really didn't know what to 
do, but I'm sure he's here just as much 
as we are." When he didn't feel like 
talking, he pretended not to hear. He 
seemed subdued, but he smiled, though 
always in spite, always tauntingly, 
daringly. He was high, it was his day 
for him to do his thing. By now four 
hundred thousand people were waiting 
for him, and he knew it. 

The moment the Battered Ornaments 
got off, excitement built quickly. The 
stage crew hurried to get the equipment 
arranged, the film crew in front of the 
stage made final preparations, the 
crowd stood to take its final stretch. The 
stage was beautiful, raised ten feet off 
the ground, covered with palm trees 
and jungle plants. Jagger had wanted 
parrots in the trees, but they weren't to 
be found in london. The announcer 
came on. He said that Mick wanted 
everyone to have a good time, but he 
wanted to read something in memory of 
Brian first. He wanted everyone to be 
quiet and listen-maybe they could just 
think about what has happened. 

And then he is on- the expected one 
has come. He is dressed all in white, 
white patent leather shoes, tight white 
linen trousers that are modestly flai red 
and a dazzling white tunic, ruffled at the 
collar and cuffs, with white frills down 
the front, tightly waisted with a hang-
ing skirt. He wears a black band with 
gold spangles around his neck. He 
comes alone to the mike and screams 
alright. "Alright, ... cool it for a min-
ute, because I really would like to say 
something about Brian. I don't know 
how to do this thing, but I'm gonna try 
... I'm just gonna say something that 
was written by Shelley." He pauses for 
a moment and there is a commotion 
beside the stage. He turns and screams, 
"look, just shut up and listen for a 
minute, OK?" It is a rebuke, not a re-
quest. 

Peace, peace! he is not dead, he doth not sleep-
He hath awakened from the dream of life-
'Tis we, who lost in stormy visions, keep 
With phantoms an unprofitable strife, 
And in mad trances, strike with our spirits' knife 
Invulnerable nothings.-We decay 
like corpses in a charnel; fear and grief 
Convulse us, and consume us day by day, 
And cold hopes swarm like worms w ithin our living 
clay. 

The One remains, the many change and pass; 
Heavens' light forever shines, Earth's shadows fly; 
Ufe, like a dome of many-coloured glass 
Stains the white radiance of Eternity, 
Until Death tramples it to fragments.-Oie, 
If thout wouldst be with that which thou dost seek! 
Follow where all is fled. 

He swaggers from the mike, drops 
his book next to the drums and waits 
for the band to get ready, radiating 
disgust and rejection. When they are 
ready, he comes to the mike and 
screams "alright" again-in provocation. 
He whines "OK." If he is alright, they 
had better be alright, too. He makes no 
effort to communicate-he defies the 
crowd, he scorns them, finally control-


ling them. When they are alright, he 
stalks back facing Watts, sets the band 
into a medium paced rock, gets his 
feeling, and he is off. He turns, leaps 
into the air and lands dancing, shaking, 
always moving. As he jumps, the stage 
crew lets out several thousand butter-
flies that flutter about him and all over 
the stage. He never lowers his head but 
stares and smiles-always letting people 
know that he is doing this for himself-
always letting them know that they 
cannot do it. Maybe he enjoys it because 
he can be the only one. 

He is a dancer beyond compare. He 
leaps and jumps; he sneers as he sings; 
he goes down low on his haunches like 
a small animal and sways. He prances 
from side to side, sets his hand on his 
hip and sells himself. He smooths his 
hair like a street-corner bitch, knowing 
he can be all woman and ever more a 
man. When he wants just to sing, he 
stands on the brink of the stage, slowly 
pumping his leg and swinging his arm, 
loosening up. He is all physical, yet 
there is nothing athletic about him. 

Some rock dancers do acrobatics-
Jagger is far smoother, far more subtle. 
He swings his arm because he feels it 
swinging. 

The rest of the band is obscured by 
his radiance; they just play on. Keith 
Richards, the lead guitar player, looks 
ill, doing his work without any expres-
sion. Wyman, the bass player, is blank 
too, as always. Jagger makes eyes at 
him, smiles and teases him. Wyman 
cracks an uncaring smile and looks 
away. Charlie Watts, the bone-faced 
drummer, smiles the same catlike grin 
that he always has. He drums with 
authority yet calm, nearly hidden by 
palm trees. Mick Taylor, the recent 
replacement for Brian Jones, looks too 
young, too excited. He isn't used to 
being a Rolling Stone, and he smiles too 
often. But he is learning. 

Jagger moves through the songs, 
screaming between them. "Alright . . . 
Alright ... Are you havin' a good 
time?" He yells as if the park would be 
wiped out if they weren't. It is a good 
time, and he moves on. They do hits and 
old favorites, "Jumpin-Jack Flash," 
"Mercy, Mercy," "Stray Cat Blues," 
"Down Home Girl." But it is all Jagger. 
The band is sluggish. They are the 
familiar thumping, pumping Stones-
maybe more guitar playing from 
Richards and Taylor-but they aren't 
swinging; the music won't come out. 
Jagger is limitless, and no band is going 
to bring him down, but they aren't 
taking him any higher. He whines at 
them, "let's get the tempo together-
c'mon, some tempo." In some spots the 
group really stumbles, transitions are 
weak, and Mick has to look back to see 
where they are. But he doesn't really 
need them. 

He really doesn't need anything. He 
takes off his tunic to show a pale-green 
T-shirt with no sleeves at all, his long 
thin muscular arms drooping, his 
medals dangling. His arms are striped 
with thick veins. He swaggers, some-
times going back and standing facing 
Watts, just tapping his foot, knowing 
he controls the show with his backside. 
Unlike a singer/ dancer like Janis 
Jopin, one never feels he is dancing 
because he has to get his inner energy 
and fury out in the air. He is pas-
sionate yet cold. He doesn't need 
to express his soul. He is there be-
cause he loves having 400,000 peo-
ple see him twitch; he loves to twitch 
just because he doe.s it so well- he 
almost giggles with pleasure that 
he can be so sexy. At the end of sev-
eral songs he walks quietly, slowly 
twirling his fingers around each other 
for all to see. Nothing is so beautiful 
to him than to twirl his futile fingers. 
He does it because no one else could 
dare. No one else could ma.ke it so 
mean and sinister. No, he needs 
nothing. 

And he can show that he is the best 
blues singer in England when he moans 
"love in Vain," an old Robert Johnson 
number. He finishes that, "Oh, yeaahh, 
I hate yuh!", with nasty satisfaction. 
"We're gonna do some stuff off of 
our new album," he whines," .. which 
is gonna be released in about . .. ten 
years' time." 

The new Jagger songs have all his 
defiance. "Gimme a little Drink" starts 
" I'm the man on the mountai~ome on up. 
I'm a ploughman in the valley with a faceful of 
mud. 
I'm in a hurry, and I know my car was stuck." 

There is intense frustration in many 
of his lyrics-real despair blues frustra-
tion, and that is part of his suI len ness, 
too. The stanzas he chose from Shelley 
were the most dark and pessimistic 
in the whole poem. He left out those 
that spoke of future joy. Maybe it is the 
ultimate despair of that poem that his 
hate grows in. His mood is a strange 
combination of bitterness, much hate, 
frustration and defiance, yet he is the 
sweet star, too, and he loves every bit 
of his sour soul. Everything in him says 
he is the prettiest, the sexiest, and the 
meanest he could be. But he is rotting 
inside. He must have accepted that 
"we are all decaying like corpses in a 
charnel" and taken it to heart. He can 
hate everyone and himself and take 
pleasure in his disgust. He cherishes 
all the evil that he is. 

The longest new song is "The Mid-
night Rambler"-he's a gambler and a 
creep and defeated, but he is holy, too. 
Singing, he kneels and crouches down, 
peering out. "I am the midnight raper, 
striking in anger." He bursts up, slash-
ing the stage with his heavy belt. He 
is wild," . . . the midnight strangler, I 
did it in Boston." He threatens and 
cowers together, he is the jungle cat 
that strikes in furious fear- it is in his 
eyes and mouth and smooth arms. 

Finally they get into "Satisfaction", 
and the crowd is wild. People start 
dancing to save themselves; hundreds 
rise to their shaking feet, and then 
everyone is standing and shouting and 
clapping. Jagger dances with utter 
joy: the crowd is so bad-he is laughing 
at them all. He is prissy for a moment, 
... 


**The Rolling Stones at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
,., 
131 The New Journal I November 23, 1969 
and he brandishes the microphone 
· stand over his head. He flings his 
tambourine into the crowd. He uses the 
close of the song perfectly to taunt, 
I can't get no, 
You can't get no, 
I want some, 
I need some, 
I'm gonna get tome, 
You need some, 
You can't get none, 
We're gonna get some. 
He is together with the crowd, and 
the world will serve him. He would 
carry his people and destroy London if 
he wanted to. "I can't get no ... I'm 
gonna get some ... satisfaction." His 
promise that the band would "get it 
together before we go" was working 
·itself true. From "Satisfaction" they 
drove into "Street Fighting Man." The 
violence is rising; he sings tough and 
dances hard. 

But he changes direction again and 
brings on his final surprise. Ginger 
Johnson and the African drummers 
come on stage. There are five extra 
drummers and a dancer-dressed only 
with dried grass over his neck, a head-
dress, and white paint designs all over 
his body. The African prances with his 
spear, dancing about Jagger. Jagger 
responds, smiling with delight. They 
dance separately, but they are mutually 
inspired. They do a short samba, Jagger 
rippling and dipping with awesome 
speed. 

They close with "Sympathy for the 
Oevil"-pure Jagger, pure Stones. It 
opens with drums, Watts staying com-
Riex but insistent, the Africans bounc-
ing and pulsing. The audience claps 
and beats tambourines. The song con-
tains all the inexorable bitterness and 
paradox of Jagger's soul. It is straight 
and long. 

Please allow me to introduce myself, 
I'm a man of wealth and taste. 
He throbs and stretches the words in 
his mouth. He is all forward and thrust. 
The drummers smile and laugh and 
work hard. 

I've been around for many a long year, 
Stole many a man's soul and faith. 
I was around when Jetus cried, had hi a moment 
of doubt and pain. 
Made damn sure that Pilate washed hit hands and 
sealed hit fate. 
This mystery is that big. He shrieks. The 
risen Christ, good and evil, evil. 

I shouted out 'Who killed the Kennedys' 
When after all it waa you and me, 
Just as every cop ia a criminal, 
And all the sinners saints. 
He will not stop. The drums beat it into 
us, Jagger's eyes cannot be escaped, 
his dance condemns. 

So if you meet me have some courtesy, 
Have some tympathy and aome taste. 
Show all your well-learned policiet 
Or l'lllay your soul to watte. 
The sweet sta r. The drums go on and 
on, and he presses, "Tell me baby, 
what's my name," again and again. The 
African joins him in his dance. They 
watch each other, and Jagger ap-
proaches him slowly. They stretch out 
their arms to touch, but Jagger retreats. 
He comes on again, the Africans driving 
for a confrontation. As they come close, 
the African beckons. Jagger takes his 
shoulders, but just before they embrace, 
he shudders, turns and slides away. The 
African is rebuked. He falls on his 
back with his feet in the air. Jagger 
stands above him conquerer, torturer-
the witch that has escaped the doctor. 
He finds his tunic, roams across the 
stage blowing kisses and silent good-
byes. He sits, his work almost done. 
"Yeah, we had a good time," still in 
time with the drums. "We had a good 
time ... Hope you had a good time ... 
well, we gotta go now, really gotta go 
now." The crowd roars no in response. 
Girls struggle at the front of the stage, 
trying to climb up and touch him. He 
smiles on. When one girl begins to 
make it on the stage, the crew throws 
her back down. Jagger tells them to get 
out. He quietly rises and dances lightly. 
"Guess we gotta go now ... We got 
to go, Lucifer." 

He wanders slowly from the mike, 
blowing kisses, turning to take a last 
look. The band keeps riffing for a few 
seconds and then quietly leaves. They 
jump into the armored truck and move 
off. The whole crowd looked around, 
thought of themselves again and waited 
to be able to move. For those who 
could never see, it was just a long after-
noon. Those who loved Brian Jones 
must have felt that he was gone and 
forgotten. For the rest, every butterfly 
wasdead. ~ 


**Tear gas**
**Author: Paul Goldberger**
**Page number(s): 14**

141 The New Journal I November 23, 1969 
Tear gas 
continued from page 2 
And, as we have come to expect march-
ing against the government, over these 
five years we have also come to expect 
governments like those of Lyndon Johnson 
and Richard Nixon. We have become 
conditioned to unresponsiveness in the 
White House. We can no longer imagine 
a government we can trust. We expect 
the kind of government we must march 
against. 

This is the real tragedy. 


**Letter from Cambridge**
**Author: Bill Hamilton**

literature or philosophy courses; this year 
there are only three American history 
courses. In addition, there is neither an 
American studies nor an urban studies 
major. 

Lectures are the staple of nearly all 
courses, some of which don't even have 
sections. The few discussion courses there 
are are vastly oversubscribed and must 
be limited. 

Coeducation is making slow progress. 
There are no co-ed dorms, and parietals--
though rarely enforced-have not been 
eliminated. 

Real participation in the decision-mak-
ing process has not yet been achieved. 
Committees continue to recommend 
changes, yet none have come, while stu-
dent government remains powerless. 

But most of all what is absent is that 
elusive atmosphere of respect and cooP: 
eration. No one seems to want to talk wtth 
each other· the faculty came out last April, 
but now s~ms as if they were motivated 
only by fear. The administration lost any 
respect it might have had when Dean 
Glimp (who has since resigned as Dean of 
Harvard College) lied to moderate stu-
dents, telling them that the U~iversity 
would not take any action agamst the 
University Hall seizure until after a meet-
ing of the student body the next day, :Uter 
he bad already participated in the unJ~t 
decision of bringing in the police. Prestdent 
Pusey is nowhere to be found, and he 
might as well not be connected with Har-
vard at all. 

Yet H arvard keeps going, generated it 
seems more by the memory of times p~ 
than by the hopes of things to come. Thts 
does not mean a wholehearted endorse-
ment of Yale or any other college as an 
educational Valhalla, but it is a warning 
that things here are not as they should be, 
that the shock of last year bas not yet 
extricated the ostrich from the sand. May-
be Frank Cham pi realized this better than 
any of us-Harvard may not have another 
such forty-two seconds for a long while. 


**Haydn returns**

No, there is no Met. But New Haven 
opera lovers could rejoice last week, when 
a new company (as yet unnamed) brought 
a splendid production of Haydn's Infidelity 
Foiled to Ezra Stiles College. 

It was enough to make one forget the 
labor troubles that have kept the Met 
silent all season. The singing, the task of an 
ensemble that included a high school 
senior from Wallingford, a Southern Conn 
coed and a couple of Yale School of 
Music instructors, was superb. The musi-
cal direction under Thomas Colville of 
the music school was excellent. 

But it was the opera itself that stole the 
show. Infidelity Foiled bas a plot that it 
takes an mM 360 to decipher; it is a 
masterpiece of the kind of comic opera 
that makes the theater of the absurd look 
like an annotated Shakespeare. 

The virtue of this production was that 
th~ cast-and its fine director, Michael 
Posnick of the drama school-understood 
the opera completely. They realized its 
basic stillness, and thus avoided pomp and 
seriousness. But more importantly they 
realized that beneath an astonishing plot 
lay splendid music, and never did any 
singer allow his tone of whimsy to over-
whelm the music of Haydn. The result 
was a period piece that at once was lightly 
mocked and lovingly embraced. 

Perhaps this company can become a 
permanent fixture around opera-hungry 
Yale-all it needs now is a name. 


**Saturday night, Penn weekend**

After the game that no one went to; after 
the Saturday-Date Dinner that no one 
thought about; after many pipes of dope, 
a six-pack of Schlitz, and a hot fudge 
sundae; paths crossed and they gathered 
in a Yale room to talk and smoke some 
more. A little .. screw Yale" bullshit, then 
drifting into gun talk, imaginary pot shots 
out the window with cowboy guns, army 
guns, Mafia guns. Open a drawer and real 
guns appear, guns from the last five 
American wars. A little more talk, but 
everyone at Yale talks. Just supposin'? 
Choose your weapon, just supposin'? The 
.357 Colt Python is too powerful, too 
loud, going through walls and walls and 
never stoppin'. 

"This .22 single action Ruger, that's 
better, bow loud d'ya think .. . 1" 

"Jeesus watch that fuckin' beer can 
dance across the room, let me try it, and 
where's the dope? Yes, yes. Ah man, the 
hot lead trot." 

"We're gonna get busted for sure." Yeah 
for sure, so why not do it in style, and the 
blasting continues, more shredded beer 
cans, mugs, glasses. Hash pipes and 
revolvers passing among the four laughmg 
loons shrieking convulsively as their 
bullets pepper The American Scholar. 

''That limp dick needed some fire and 
now he's got it." 

.. Ah man, we're gonna get busted. Go 
down and check the noise but first .. !'The 
alarm clock is stopped cold at 11:00 
p.m., a blue spark death, and the decibal 
recorder leaves, storming back into the 
room .. Shit, they can hear that fuckin' gun 
all ov~r the place, we gotta do somethin'. " 

''Turn up the record player." 

More ammo, more hash, more target~, 
laughter. Beer cans flying, books and pamt-
ings ripped, a destroyed art po~~Jio and 
record collection blue smoke nsmg, stray 
bullets ricochetm'g into walls, ceiling, and 
mattresses. The Student Guide to New 
Haven riddled with six quick shots fanned 
from gunfighter stance by the madman 
with rimless glasses. Noise, smoke, 
laughter, dope and poppingligh~.bulbs. 

"We're still gonna get busted. 

.. Let 'em come, but those cops carry 
.38's and all we have is this .22, ob for that 
shit Iovin' Python. We can hold 'em off, 
don't worry." 

But the bust never comes. The ammum-
tion runs out; the room empties. The 
blue smoke lifts and all that's left are ~oles 
in the wall, book confetti, slugs droppmg 
out of Emerson, twisted beer cans, alarm 
clock parts and a ~ale e_x-n;mg all over the 
rug, and Janis Joplin sprnmn~ t~ a halt. 

Four stoned Yalies, one trippmg, one 
drunk, another in a pres-acid numbed con-
fusion, all laugh and wander out to get 
something to eat, their madness suspended 
for a moment; then it dives deeper and 
flows more confidently. 


**Yale Med**

continued from page 8 
"Brewster misses the point of medical 
education. Years ago the research and 
training could be separated from. the needs 
of the community. The commumty t<>?ay, 
though, is no longer a usable comm~chty. 
The university must be connected wtth the 
people. But the community just doesn't 
trust Yale. The university must lear~ to 
relate to society and invite commumty 
participation." 

Now, of course, the community Jacks_ 
the representation it must have to make tts 
needs felt in the Medical Center. Yale has 
argued that community people ~re alr~ady 
involved in Medical Center affatrs, which 
is true to a point. But the kind of com-
munity participation that takes place n?w 
is not tlie kind Max Pepper, F~ 
H~s, 
Lowell Levin or the UCCC had an rnmd. 
Of the sixteen community representatives 
who now serve on the board of Yale-New 
Haven Hospital all but one, Henry ~arker, 
represent a major business interest m town. 

But there is hope. If anything, the ground-
swell of support for Fred Harris proves 
that the Medical Center has come a long 
way since Max Pepper's first forays into 
community participation. In~e~d , th~ Yale 
Council on Community Affarrs Erme 
Osborne feels that the university is begin-
ning to grow in sensiti_vity and awa~eness. 
Yale must give up a slice of the actiOn, be 
says, and allow the community to develop 
its own form of representation. Lowell 
Levin doesn't think that the goals of Yale 
and the community, in fact, need be in-
compatible at all ... Yale has an opportu-
nity, not an obligation," he sa~s, "to help 
research and service comm~ty needs. 
Service has to be part of education, and 
service can be made to enhance rather than 
debilitate that education. The self-interests 
of Yale and the community are close 
together." 

Fred Harris has since been hired by 
Seven-Together as the community's 
"advocate" to the Connecticut Mental 
Health Center. Yale University, which 
would not pay him, helped obtain private 
funds so that the community group could 
pay his salary. Harris's new job, the result 
of over two months of conflict between 
Yale and the community, places him in a 
role independent of the university. 

But even with Harris present to plead 
the case of the inner-city, university policy 
itself has not changed. Yale still believes, 
as President Brewster insisted in Cincin-
nati that its goals are not the same as those 
of the community in which it sits. 

When Max Pepper came to Yale, the 
Medical Center first began to realize that it 
could not sit at the edge of the Hill and 
turn its face the other way forever. 

Pepper's actions proved the first major 
test of community involvement. They spht 
the medical school into factions that 
favored community participation and 
factions that did not. 

The split did not go away after Pepper 
left; it got deeper. The Fr~ Harris c~. 
made the split deeper agam. And so tt wtl~ 
continue, with tensions rising-for not unhl 
the university embarks on a new course 
toward the community will its wounds 
begin to heal. ._ 


2¢ 
-
gourmet food for 
Poor Lads and Lasses 
... cocktails too 
and now dancing every Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday in the new, 
elegant Rich Lads Lounge with the 
exciting Carol and Company who 
just recently recorded an L.P. 
204 Crown St., New Haven 
Telephone 562-4334 
Free Parking 

the house 
that multiple copies built 
we • re still here 
4¢ For First copy 
2¢ for each additional copy 
charlton press 
288 Dwight Street (For printing) 
127 College Street (For copies) 
telephone (203) 562-1625

Thursday, November 20 
Aldrich's ATTACK (1956) 
Friday, November 21 
Mann's MEN IN WAR (1957) 
Saturday, November 22 
Sturges's THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN (1960) 
Tuesday, November 25 
Warhol's BEAUTY # 2 (1965) and FEUILLADE'S FANTOMAS (1913) 
Wednesday, November 26 
Polonsky's FORCE OF EVIL (1948) 
Thursday, November 27 
Renoir's SWAMP WATER (1941) 
Tuesday, December 2 
Laurel and Hardy BIG BUSINESS AND OTHER SHORTS 
Wednesday, December 3 
Siegel's MADIGAN (1967) 
Thursday, December 4 
Fuller's CHINA GATE and HOUSE OF BAMBOO 
note: one show only at 8:00 p.m. 
Friday, December 5 
Bunuel's THE ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE {1954) 
Saturday, December 6 
Silverstein's CAT BALLOU (1965) 
Tuesday, December 9 
Kurosawa's YOJIMBO 
Wednesday, December 10 
Hawks's ELDORADO (1967) 



**A Story Theatre Production**
**Author: Paul Sills, Arnold Einstein, Larry Arrick**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A Story Theatre Production 
<XX1CeiVed by Paul Sills 
translated and adapted with 
lyrics by Arnold \!\einstein 
directed by Larry Arrick 
111 YAlE IIPIJIIIIY lliATII 
November 27- December 20 
Uesday-Saturday EM!I'li~ 800 Saturday ITiiDlee .2:~ 
~562-9953 
new theatre at comer d )<lri< and chapel streets



art shop 
over 30 years in 
artists' and architects' 
supplies 
picture framing 
our specialty 
1058 Chapel Street 
New Haven. Conn. 
telephone 824-0034 


**Volume II: The Science of Freedom**
**Author: PETER GAY**

Volume II: The Science of Freedom 
by PETER GAY 
This book completes the brilliant interpretation of 
the Enlightenment which Peter Gay-formerly of 
Columbia, now professor of history at Yale and one 
of the leading authorities on eighteenth-century 
intellectual history-began in The Rise of Modern 
Paganism (r967 National Book Award). 
"Superbly written and elegantly reasoned." 
Eliot Fremont-Smith, The New York Times 
"Profoundly important ... Commitment to criticism, and 
its history, is the theme of Peter Gay's erudite, witty, 
beautifully written book." 
J. H. Plumb, Saturday Review


1100~ 
t(ffi[L~ ©©=®[? 
77 Broadway 
New Haven 
Telephone: 772-2200 

