Publication date: November 2010
Volume: 44
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD**
- Publishers: Samantha Ellner, Tim Shriver
- Editors-in-Chief: Haley Cohen, Kate Selker
- Managing Editors: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman
- Production Manager: Jimmy Murphy
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Jane Long, Susannah Shattuck, Andrew Nelson
- Senior Editors: Bob Jeffery, Eleanor Kenyon, Sarah Mich, Sarah Nutman, Maya Seidler
- Copy Editor: Heeseung Kim
- Business Director: Helena Malchione
- Associate Editors: Laura Blake, Julia Fisher, Helen Knight
- Online Editor: Bay Gross
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Points of Departure -  
- Shots in the Dark -  
- The Elm City By Bicycle - Autumn von Plinksy & Ellen Su
- Maps - Haley Cohen
- Baring All - Charlotte Kingston
- The Underdogs We Call Bulldogs - Adele Jackson-Gibson
- The Critic - Jacque Feldman
- Endnote - Sanjena Sathian
- Talking Shops - Juliana Hanle
- Riot Girl - Emily Rappaport
- Numbers Game - Max Ehrenfreud


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author:** 
**Page number(s): 4-6**

Rare Old Time
Yale charged landscape architect 
Channing Harris with designing 
new racks.  Harris, who believes 
a successful feature should only 
be noticeable once removed, 
answered the challenge with a 
columns and cross-bar design.  In 
the Georgian-revival residential 
colleges, he selected rough-cut 
granite for the columns, and in 
the neo-Gothic colleges, concrete 
posts that taper upwards to 
become spires.  His favorite 
“ornament” is in Berkeley College.  
A repeating pattern of bike racks 
fences in the courtyard grass.  The 
racks welcome bicyclists without 
alerting others to anything amiss. 
But even as the racks became 
less visible, the bikes became more 
so.   The design put style above 
substance, and at times seemed 
to achieve neither.  Without 
vertical pieces to prop them up, 
bikes could fall on each other. 
And clumped on the crossbars, 
or left locked to trees or posts (as 
may be more convenient), they 
continued to resist the order that 
elsewhere defines Yale’s tradition. 


The 
most 
delightfully 
improbable attempt to blend 
the bike rack into Old Gothic Yale 
was the pipe at Bass Library. No 
one who might have designed 
the rack for the library’s 2007 
remodel 
claimed 
it 
when 
contacted: the contractor insisted 
that either the architects or the 
landscape architects specified its 
design, while they energetically 
denied having done so (the 
landscape architects on this 
project did not include Harris). 


Whether you come to belong 
to a place depends on how you 
get there.  Sometimes you’re 
greeted with open arms, and 
other times—with a bar to the 
chest.  That’s how, until recently, 
Bass Library greeted bicyclists. 
“It’s absurd,” she said.  “Almost 
in your face.” The silver-haired 
woman stared at a bar four inches 
in diameter and 42 inches from 
the ground.  She had dismounted 
her bee-yellow Motobecane and, 
unwilling to lift the bike above her 
waist, now leaned it against the 
pink stone of the tomb entrance 
to Bass Library.  The bar held a 
tangle of other bikes in the air, 
front tires suspended over the top 
and wrenched at tortuous angles.  
“I guess racks aren’t designed 
by people who use them. But 
that’s true of so many things.”


Yale College dates from 1701, 
and the geared bicycle from 
1885.  Among the Gothic- and 
Georgian-revival 
architecture, 
whether and where bikes belong 
has not always been clear.  In early 
photographs, bikes spread across 
campus , untethered to racks, and 
not likely to be rustled.  But New 
Haven’s mid-20th century urban 
blight brought new threats. Theft 
rose, and so did the need for Yale 
students to secure their bikes. 
Yale at last installed bike racks in 
the 1960s—more than a decade 
after the “trick knee” of Whitey 
Heist ’53 popped out of joint and 
kept him from finishing the famed 
1952 “Beers and Bikes From Yale 
to Vassar,” and more than seventy 
years after F.A. Clark, class of 1891, 
won the two-mile bicycle race for 
Yale over Harvard.  These primitive 
racks were metal bars hung 
between heavy wooden posts. 


The domestication of bicycles 
to the Yale aesthetic became more 
deliberate in the 1990s, when 


Bric-a-Rack
Until this semester, the metal 
rack continued to be cause 
for curiosity and discomfort.
“If you can ride a bicycle, you 
can lift a bicycle over this bar,” 
said Steven Garza ‘12, which he 
demonstrated with confidence. 
But for Elizabeth Walker—“not 
Rider,” she clarified—this did 
not seem true.  The 63-year-
old woman left her yellow bike 
hobbled against the wall, a U-lock 
binding the front tire to the 
frame. While she descended into 
the library to use the internet, 
Yifan Chen ‘12 climbed up the 
stairs to unlock his bike.  His only 
complaint about bike racks at 
Yale was how tall this one was. 
But then, before complaining 
further, he reconsidered, and 
tried to impute an intention to 
the design. “I don’t know, maybe 
because there are so many bikes 
this is how they can best be 
organized,” he said.  He looked 
over as another rider arrived and 
began awkwardly turning the 
heads of several bicycles to create 
room, struggling simultaneously 
to lift his bike over the bar with his 
other hand. “I’m not sure about the 
mechanics of it,” Chen said, “but 
I’m sure there is a reason.”  (The 
steel bar, which seemed to have 
such forbidding permanence, has 
just this semester met its Maker).


Other racks at Yale worked 
better for bikers, but lacked 
Oxford charm. Like ladders set on 
their sides, aluminum racks once 
held bikes outside Harkness Hall. 
Harris, the landscape architect, 
guessed that the maintenance 
staff had installed those racks 
without 
consulting 
campus 
planners.  The incongruity of the 
choice felt oddly comforting; it 
felt human, and not institutional. 
The dysfunction and disunity 
of bike racks on campus has once 
again prompted Yale to redesign 
them .  This past year, Alice 
Raucher, facilities planner for 
Yale, worked with Kimo Griggs, a 
former professor of ornamental 
architecture at Yale, to make a rack 
that could embrace bikes where 
they have struggled to belong. 
President Levin endorsed their 
solution as the new standard.  The 
rack has less feudal rusticity, and 
more corporate polish.  No longer 
a hitching rail, it’s an embellished 
U 
turned 
upside 
down. 
The new racks are elegant 
and functional, but the old 
ones will be missed.  There was


**Title: Talking Shops**
**Author:** Juliana Hanle
**Page number(s): 8-12**

During exam season, I don’t 
see much of the world except 
my computer screen.  But one 
Saturday afternoon I shut my 
laptop, break out of my room, and 
go shopping.  And not just any 
shopping—antique shopping.  
The blustery New Haven 
wind blows me down Chapel 
Street along the edge of the 
Green, past Dunkin’ Donuts, 
past the other Starbucks, past 
Citibank, and past Evolution 
Tattoo Studio to the doorstep 
of one of the best locations for 
antiquing that New Haven has to 
offer: English Market. A colorful 
sidewalk display of dresses just 
outside the door presages the still 
more colorful wares that greet 
the antique shop’s customers 
inside. When I cross its threshold, 
I admire dining tables set with 
beautiful antique china plates and 
wonder how many Thanksgiving 
dinners they’ve served. I browse 
tie clips and imagine them at 
the senior proms of yesteryear. 
Suddenly, from within my purse, 
my phone beeps, and standing 
in 
that 
mysterious, 
musty 
shop motivates me to do the 
unthinkable: for the first time all 
semester, I turn off my phone—
and from within the normally 
businesslike, 
e-mail-answering 
Abigail 
Droge, 
my 
longtime 
doppelganger emerges. ‘Auntie 
Abby,’ as my close friends call her, 
is the part of me who’s always 
secretly 
loved 
arts-and-crafts. 
Now, among shelves of fabrics, 
quilts, ribbons, handkerchiefs, and 
tablecloths—all of which would 
be perfect for the next project up 
her sleeve—Auntie Abby feels as if 
she has died and gone to heaven. 


Store owner Carol Orr is 
sorting through her most recent 
purchases and gearing up for 
the Christmas season.  Arranging 
bright red vintage ornaments 
peeping out from tissue paper, 
she tells Auntie Abby the story of 
the building that houses English 
Market, which Orr purchased 
with her husband in 2004. Unable 
to find a tenant, Orr decided 
to use the space to throw a 
tag sale with a friend in order 
to clear out her basement. Six 
years later, the tag sale’s still on. 


English Market has since 
flourished and now brims with 
antiques of every shape and size. 
Orr, who also maintains a second 
career as a landscape architect, 
explains that running an antique 
store allows her the perfect 
opportunity to indulge a life-long 
passion for shopping without 
having to keep what she buys.  “I 
love stuff,” Orr says, recalling fond 
childhood memories of going 
junk shopping with her mother. 
Orr buys much of the store’s 
merchandise 
on 
her 
weekly 
visits to estate sales and also 
receives antiques that people 
bring in to consign.  As we talk, 
a woman unloads consignment 
items from her car.  “We like 
repurposing things,” Orr says, 
smiling.  The Auntie Abby in me 
watches, impressed, as formerly 
unidentifiable, 
sprawling 
metal objects are immediately 
designated as perfect candidates 
for towel racks in a new display. 


brilliantly 
designed 
displays in the shop showcase Orr’s 
enthusiasm for décor-recycling. 
Padding from one section of the 
store to the next, Auntie Abby is 
thrilled to encounter numerous 
examples of such turnarounds. A 
set of orange sports lockers have 
been converted into cabinets 
for glassware and crockery, a 
bed frame stands on end with 
skeins of beautifully colored yarn 
peeping out from each mattress 
spring, a couch flaunts cushions 
made 
from 
old 
newspapers 
stapled 
together, 
an 
old-
fashioned wooden television set 
has been hollowed out to become 
a display case, and a set of library 
card catalog drawers now holds 
cutlery and other kitchenwares. 


Auntie Abby, for her part, 
imagines uses for vintage aprons, 
antique 
typewriters, 
and 
a 
beautiful old-fashioned Singer 
sewing machine.  Running her 
fingers through silk scarves and 
admiring a pair of saddle shoes, 
she tries to picture the last sock 
hop they attended and wonders 
whether they’d fit her feet.  By the 
light of old lamps, Auntie Abby 
peers at maps, concert posters, 
and artwork, including a painting 
of an old-fashioned dance with 
gowned ladies and tuxedoed 




**Points of Departure**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The bulldog may not have 
a mane or know how to roar, 
but he’s still the most lionized 
animal in the New Haven jungle. 

There are animals stronger in 
number—pigeons, 
seagulls, 
tiny brown birds that hop, and 
squirrels fat from acorns and 
pizza—but as far as notoriety 
goes, 
the 
bulldog 
is 
king. 

Celebrated with fanfare and 
immortalized 
in 
iconography, 
Handsome Dan graces T-shirts, 
shot glasses and mugs: a blue and 
white swirl of protruding cheeks. 

He frowns down from a bright 
yellow poster in the Berkeley 
College Dean’s Office and appears 
in black-and-white photographs 
at Yale’s Mead Visitor Center. 

In real life, there’s Sherman, 
a beautiful dog with a silky 
coat, a muscular, proud torso, 
and large, doleful eyes. Yale’s 
seventeenth 
Handsome 
Dan, 
Sherman came to Yale at eight 
weeks old from an English 
Bulldog breeder in Tennessee. 

He was aptly named after the 
tanks of the Second World War. 

Sherman’s owner and trainer, 
Chris 
Getman, 
has 
coached 
Sherman’s 
predecessors 
since 
1983. Sherman’s strict regimen, 
which consists mostly of walking, 
preserves his fine physique. In 
Getman’s words, he’s built like 
a “linebacker, not a lineman”—
powerful, but compact. Most 
bulldogs are fairly sedentary, but 
Sherman’s fitness is of the utmost 
importance. At charity auctions, 
people bid thousands of dollars 
for the opportunity to walk him. 

Recently, I had the privilege 
of visiting Sherman and his trainer 
at their home on Whitney Avenue. 

At one point Sherman came to 
my side, a rope toy in his wide 
mouth. I struggled to pull the 
toy from the grip of his powerful 
jaw. His muscles stretched taut 
as he tilted his oversized head 
and stared me down in silence 
from behind calm eyes. A dog like 
Sherman does not need to bark. 

The original Handsome Dan 
was purchased for $5 from a local 
blacksmith in 1889. Majestic even 
in death, his fine, taxidermized 
form still graces Payne Whitney 
Gymnasium’s 
Membership 
Services Office, where he is 
encased in his own glass cube 
next to a larger display of trophies. 

I recognize his face from the plush 
bulldogs lining the shelves at the 
Yale Bookstore. From behind the 
glass, he keeps watch, his ears


**Dog's Life**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

When 
Dave 
Duda 
first 
opened the Book Trader Café 
and Bookstore twelve years ago, 
he stood behind the counter 
and announced, “This is it. I’m 
closing the book here. This is 
where I’m going to spend the 
rest of my life.” At the time, 
the store was one of four used 
bookstores in New Haven, each 
vying for Yale business. Today, 
it is the only one that remains.

My 
mother 
owns 
an 
independent bookstore and I’ve 
been browsing through books 
my whole life. And yet I am one 
of many students who resort 
to finding books online. With 
hyperlinks, pics, video clips, and, 
of course, cheaper prices, it is 
increasingly enticing to opt for 
accessible digital resources. But 
the sad truth is, as more and more 
people exchange the printed 
page for the electronic screen, 
more and more independent 
bookstores face financial decline.

But at 12:30 on a Friday, Book 
Trader is packed. A quick glance 
into the glass-paned, greenhouse-
like sitting area reveals no empty 
chairs. The line to the café counter 
at the back of the store is long, 
and the front door doesn’t stay 
shut for more than a minute. 

Through the brick archway to 
the left of the entrance, there is 
little room to navigate between 
the high shelves, as people stand 
flipping through an array of books 
about art, architecture, poetry, 
drama, philosophy, and religion. 

Duda’s career in used books 
began when he walked into a 
used bookstore on a job-hunt 
after college and was hired on 
the spot. At first, the job seemed 
like a waste of time, but in 
retrospect, Duda recognizes that 
it served as his apprenticeship: 
he developed the instincts for 
knowing what to buy and what 
to write on the price sticker. 

Of the thousands of used 
books that sellers offer him 
weekly, Duda has to pick and 
choose which ones he wants to 
buy. “Some people think if you’ve 
got a one hundred year old book 
it’s worth something,” he explains. 
“Most of the time it isn’t.” He 
calls this one of the most basic 
problems facing the printed page 
today. As more and more people 
want to sell their books and 
make a quick dollar, the market 
is flooded with used books, a 
phenomenon which drives down 
the price. Since his beginnings, 
Duda has seen the price of a used 
book fall from $10.95 to $4.95. “I 
wish anybody luck opening a new 
bookstore these days,” he says. 
“There’s so much more media 
competing with the printed page.”

Many 
independent 
bookstores, 
including 
my 
mother’s, have responded to this 
price decrease by supplementing 
their literary stock with toys, 
stationery 
goods, 
and 
other 
knick-knacks. The number of 
books in an average bookstore 
has slowly decreased, and those 
that remain are hidden from 
view by other products. The 
store survives financially, not as 
a bookstore—but as a toy store. 

At Book Trader, sandwiches, 
soups, coffee, and baked goods 
have, as of yet, kept the plush 
animals and artisan cards at bay. 

Duda acknowledges that the café 
portion of Book Trader provides 
much of the store’s revenue. 

When I tell friends that I’m writing 
about Book Trader, they’re more 
likely to bring up the Jane Rare, a 
delicious roast beef sandwich with 
horseradish mayo, or the amazing 
hot chocolate, than the books. 

The café’s success is what allows 
Duda to pay a little more for books 
and sell them for a little less. But 
the edible bounty takes nothing 
away from the literary stock. 

Unlike 
owners 
of 
independent bookstores, Duda 
remains committed to keeping 
it about the books: “We think 
we’ve created something kind of 
special that people appreciate. 

There’s a community of people 
that enjoy this establishment 
and what we’ve done. I don’t 
have too many desires about 
how to make it better.” The café 
brings in a lot of money, but the 
bookstore part of the business 
still draws in locals and out-of-
towners alike, whether they want 
to buy books or, more often, 
spend an afternoon browsing. 

Sadly, a time may come when 
Google Books and the Kindle 
become our primary media for 
reading literature. But there is 
a hope that other independent 
bookstores 
will 
learn 
to 
supplement their literary stock 
with whatever products allow 
them to stay financially afloat. 


**Talking Shops**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

T
he printer on the 
second 
floor 
Tyco beats like the 
heartbeat of a marathoner gone 
aerobic. Founded by Michael Ian-
nuzzi in 1971, the copying and 
printing company is one of the 
few small business that have seen 
the transformation of Broadway. 

Educated Burgher is an-
other. There, a 1984 map of New 
Haven’s businesses still hangs on 
the wall, faded and irrelevant. 

Fewer than half of the businesses 
depicted still exist. There was once 
a movie theater, a wine shop, a re-
cord store, a bar, two more Cut-
ler’s outposts, and a florist—but 
they’ve all gone under, most of 
their properties bought up by Yale. 

Today, Campus Customs, Educated 
Burgher, Blue Jay Cleaners, Toad’s 
Place, Yorkside, and J. Press are 
all that remain from the old guard. 

The revolution began with 
the sidewalks. In the mid-1990s, 
Yale and New Haven partnered 
to make infrastructure improve-
ments — changing traffic patterns 
and storefront signs, renovating 
buildings, burying utility lines, and 
planting elm trees — to combat 
what Iannuzzi classified as the 
sentiment that, as an urban area, 
“we were decaying, but not from 
the standpoint of the business.” 

The New York Times put it more 
bluntly in 1994, stating that the 
area was “plagued by traffic con-
gestion and rampant shabbiness.” 

Yale’s goal was to make it more 
welcoming—to students, busi-
nesses, and those in the community. 

According to Bruce Al-
exander ’65, the Vice President for 
Yale’s office of New Haven and 
State Affairs (NHSA), the trans-
formation he initially imagined ten 
years ago is almost complete—only 
the installation of a handful of fine 
dining spots remain. The change 
has been made possible by Yale’s 
careful management of inter-store 
competition. Yale, which owns 
most of the properties, leases to 
stable corporate businesses such as 
J.Crew, Origins, and Au Bon Pain. 

The University began 
buying up properties from local 
New Haven families who wanted 
to sell, a process accelerated when 
university president Richard Levin 
hired Alexander in 1998. Alexan-
der aggressively recruited new mer-
chants such as Laila Rowe, Urban 
Outfitters, and Thom Browne, and 
brought in Ivy Noodle to serve late-
night dining needs. In a 2001 press 
release, then-University Properties 
financial analyst Andrea Pizziconi 
’01 said that to identify an appropri-
ate 24-hour convenience store “we 
literally walked the streets of New 
York for days,” before deciding on 
Gourmet Heaven. “I don’t think 
the Yale community realizes it,” she 
said. “But Yale is doing some of 
the most innovative and aggressive 
development projects among uni-
versities throughout the country.” 

One of the biggest chang-
es was to introduce national corpo-


rations to Broadway—the first of 
which was Barnes and Noble. Independent businesses owners often 
fear that corporations will be aloof 
and dissociated. In the merchant’s 
association of Broadway, however, 
Iannuzzi said the bookstore is “pro-
gressive and aggressive in being a 
part of the community,” a refresh-
ing reprisal for the smaller business-
es. Despite this diplomatic cour-
tesy, phrases like “elbow their way” 
found their way out of the mouths 
of both Iannuzzi and Barry Cob-
den, manager of Campus Customs, 
when they spoke of larger compa-
nies. Iannuzzi observed that the ar-
rival of stores like J. Crew on a city 
block signaled a change in shopping 
culture — a decade ago, he claimed, 
they would have stayed in the malls. 
“A lot of times you lose if you get 
a corporate coming in,” he con-
cluded. That said, New Haven does 
not have a significant department 
store to draw in traffic, so Barnes 
and Noble now acts as an economic 
anchor. “The nice part about the 
area,” Iannuzzi continued. “Is that 
Yale has sort of wrapped around 
the idea that the environment 
is for the students and the city.” 

The newest addition to the Broad-
way Shopping District, Gant, 
opened this November. Founded 
in New Haven in 1949, the now 
Swiss-owned purveyor of American 
sportswear has 590 stores world-
wide, and likes the idea of “coming 
home,” said Ari Hoffman, CEO of 
Gant U.S.A. in an interview with the 
New Haven Independent in Octo-
ber. “Some people may say, ‘Paris, 
Milan, Italy.’ We say, ‘New Haven.’” 

Gant’s webpage credits founder 
Bernard Gant with introducing the 
classic “button-down shirt” and 
outfitting “the good life and leisure-
ly lifestyles on the American East 
Coast.” Mr. Gant arrived on that 
coast in 1914, a Ukrainian emigrant 
who found employment in New 
York City’s garment district. Yet the 
company uses definitively WASP 
iconography to woo its customers. 

The New Haven Gant store displays 
Take Ivy, a photograph collection 
of Ivy League fashion in the sixties, 
at the register. The Gant catalogue 
narrates in saccharine stereotypes 
the lives Gant men and women liv-
ing in Washington D.C., offering po-
etical summaries of lacrosse games 
and the social lives of politicians. 

A reflection on “The Art of Net-
working” fills the back pages. When 
Gant’s imminent arrival was an-
nounced in October, Abigail Rider, 
Director of University Properties, 
said, “the addition of Gant to the 
retailers on Broadway reaffirms our 
connection with our New England 
traditions.” Gant’s presence suggests 
that these are perhaps traditions of 
aspiration—though only time will 
tell if pricey flannel and football 
jackets will keep the store around. 

After all, University backing does 
guarantee a business’ success. Establishing a commercial business 
remains an exercise in hope and 
crossed fingers. Even when all the 
operative variables are aligned, un-
expected failures occur. Johnson, 


The Poynter Fellowship 
In Journalism Presents 
Yale
Noon 
Burke Auditorium, Kroon Hall
195 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT
Free and open to the Public
Information: 203.432.1345
http://opa.yale.edu/poynter.aspx
Wednesday, 
February 9, 2011
Elisabeth
Rosenthal
International Environment 
Correspondent,
The New York Times
Can Americans 
Live More Sustainably? 
Lessons from Europe



**Title: The Broadway Block**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Long before ABP, Liggett’s Drugs occupied the corner of York and Elm.
Iannuzzi, and Cobden spoke of 
Kerin, an pricy eco-fashion store 
that lasted less than a year at the 
southwest corner of Broadway 
and York in the space that Gant 
now occupies. “I think people just 
thought, well it’s Yale so we can go 
really high-end,” Johnson mused. 
Kerin is not the only business that 
has failed in recent years. Whims-
el’s, a creperie owned by two Yale 
graduates, closed less than two years 
after opening. York Square Cinema 
stopped playing films in 2005 after 
years of struggling with motion 
picture companies to obtain rights 
to blockbuster films. Cosi closed 
in 2008, citing a drop in customers.

The current make-up of the block 
reflects a comprehensive and sys-
tematic plan for the development 
and operation of the Broadway 
district by the two groups that pos-
sess nearly all the real estate. Besides 
Yale, the largest landowner in the 
Broadway district is the Vitigliano 
family. These New Haven real es-
tate magnates own the buildings 
where Campus Customs hawks Yale 
gear, Urban Outfitters sells trendy 
clothing, and the Educated Bur-
gher serves up greasy diner food. 
In December 2003 the holdings of 
the Vitigliano family were placed in 
the care of a real estate investment 
group called the Yale Mall Partner-
ship, which represents the shared 
property of the Vitagliano siblings, 
according to the online records of 
the New Haven town clerk. The 
Vitaglianos have worked alongside 
Yale’s urban renewal initiatives, en-
tering into multiple agreements with 
the University regarding leasing 
practices on the block since 2007. 
From their University Properties of-
fice, Yale arranges extensive Broad-
way promotion, including College 
Night, which draws students from 
local colleges and universities for a 
night of discounts, live music, and 
prizes. According to Cobden, Ian-
nuzzi, and Anne Johnson, the man-
ager of Laila Rowe, the night pro-
vides increased profits for the stores 
that take part. All three credited 
Yale for planning and promoting 
the event--the university, in its role 
as landlord, even arranged for the 
sidewalks to be cleaned before and 
after. That dual act of promotion 
and maintenance is a part of the 
regular routine on Broadway. Drew 
Ruben ’11, owner of Blue State 
Coffee which has five locations in 
Boston, Providence, and New Ha-
ven, said he is not aware of any 
other landlord who does so much 
active marketing for their tenants.


Iannuzzi readily acknowledges that 
“Yale put together the plan to de-
velop the area. They spent a lot of 
money and made the place look 
great.” That said, the extra-special 
treatment comes at a price.  In ex-
change for its services, Yale requires 
adherence to certain standards of 
operation from its occupants. The 
commandments are few: Stores must 
stay open until at least 9 o’clock Sun-
day through Thursday and they must 
keep generous holiday hours. Gour-
met Heaven has to display fresh 
fruit on the sidewalk. When a tenant 
breaks the rules, they pay a fine. Yet 
this strong discipline has strength-
ened 
Broadway’s 
renaissance. 
Before Kerin, a fast-food chain 
claimed the southwest corner on 
York and Broadway, recalled John-
son. As he tells it, Yale “got them 
out of there.”  The restaurant served 
lunch and dinner, sold liquor and 
played music for dancing. They va-
cated the premises about a year after 
the property transferred into Yale’s 
possession, according to Cobden. 
He says the owners became “disen-
chanted with the area,” and then cau-
tiously added that he does not know 
if Yale was involved in the move. It 
certainly wouldn’t be the only time. 
The University has publicly used its 
ownership to ease out stores that 
“didn’t add to the district,” as Matt 
Jacobs ’98, Director of Operations 
for Yale University Properties in 
the early ’00s, put it. For example, 
in 2000, the University refused to 
renew the lease for the convenience 
store Krauszer’s, citing its high pric-
es and poor selection. University 
Properties also cited the failure of 
Bill Kalogeridis, owner of the Cop-
per Kitchen on Chapel Street, to 
comply with safety regulations to 
explain why Yale never offered him 
the security of five-year lease con-
tract instead of month-to-month 
payments. In an interview with the 
Yale Daily News, however, Kalog-
eridis suggested that the University 
wanted to force his business out to 
make room for another boutique. 
Cobden acknowledged that the 
changes Yale has made along the 
way—the corporate presence, the 
rules—did not always feel good. But 
a relativist appreciation for Yale’s in-
volvement prevails. For now, Broad-
way merchants like Cobden are ready 
to believe that Yale’s involvement 
is for the best. “This is not change 
that really hurts,” he explained. 
The merchants are not about to 
bite the hand that feeds them even 
if it does demand some new dis-


Yale requires adherence to certain standards of opera-
tion from its occupants: stores must stay open until at 
least 9 o’clock Sunday through Thursday and they must 
keep generous holiday hours. Gourmet Heaven has to 
display fresh fruit on the sidewalk.


**Title: Riot Girl**
**Author: Emily Rappaport**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

his fall, Katie Miller ’13 left 
the United States Military 
Academy at West Point in 
protest of the military’s Don’t Ask, 
Don’t Tell policy, and transferred to 
Yale. “Even before I was interested in 
transferring, I knew it was LGBTQ 
friendly,” she says of the college. 
After all, in 1986, Yale became 
one of the nation’s first universities 
to add sexual orientation to its 
nondiscrimination clause. The next 
year, an article in Rolling Stone 
dubbed the school the “gay Ivy”—an 
epithet that Miller finds appealing. 
She has not been disappointed 
in her first term here, saying she 
has appreciated the support of the 
University as well as her friends and 
classmates.

Fourteen years ago, however, 
a young woman named Sarah 
Marcus transferred from Yale for 
reasons of sexual orientation. By 
her account, Marcus’ and several 
others were harassed and threatened 
with violence because of their 
sexual identity. Marcus felt the 
administration’s responses to these 
incidents were unsympathetic at 
best, and she left Yale for Oberlin 
College in Ohio after the first term 
of her sophomore year. Marcus’ and 
Miller’s stories run parallel, but in 
opposite directions: both transferred 
away from a school where they felt 
repressed, and both, to some extent, 
became 
spokeswomen 
for 
the 
LGBTQ community on campus. 
What can their stories tell us about a 
movement, about the nature of civil 
rights activism, about the history of 
a school?

Today, Sara Marcus is a freelance 
writer who lives in Brooklyn and 
works as an editor for artforum.
com, the online component of 
Artforum International Magazine. 
She came out during her freshman 
year of high school in Maryland—
“but I never really knew what I was 
coming out as,” she says. “Because 
at that time, bisexuality was like, 
Madonna and Sandra Bernhard—it 
wasn’t a legitimate subject.” 
High school was tough, but 
Marcus believed that college would 
bring bigger, better things. She had 
visited her older brother at Oberlin, 
and what she saw there gave her “this 
vision that going to college meant 
everybody’s a feminist, everybody’s 
cool if you’re queer or whatever, 
people hang out in co-op kitchens 
late at night baking loaves of whole 
grain bread listening to punk rock.” 
It never occurred to her that not all 
liberal arts colleges were as tolerant. 
She had high hopes for Yale until 
she arrived on campus.   “And 
then, of course,” she says, “Yale was 
tremendously different.”

Marcus entered Yale a member of 
the class of 1999. She was assigned 
to Morse College—“it felt really 
freeing not to be trapped by this 
weight of history and classical 
pretension of the other colleges”—
and involved herself in student 
labor activism.  By her sophomore 
year, she’d been arrested twice for 
protesting workers’ rights. Soon, 
however, her interest in activism was 
forced to take a different tack. 
Self-defining as queer, Marcus 
joined the LGBTQ Co-op. At a 
coming-out day rally in October 
1996, Marcus, then a sophomore, 
gave a speech condemning the recent 
passage of the Defense of Marriage 
Act, which declared that states were 
not obliged to recognize same-
sex marriages sanctioned by other 
states. Then, she went away on a 
weekend trip. When she returned to 
school, there was a voicemail on her 
answering machine from a man who 
had heard her speak at the rally. 
“Hi Sara, you little dyke,” he had 
recorded. “I’m calling to say that I 
think it’s a shame that you’re a dyke, 
because personally, I’d like to fuck 
you. But I can’t touch you because 
you’ve been licked so much. So I’ll 
just take my fist and fucking tear you 
apart. Thank you.” 

Horrified, Marcus sent an email 
to the Co-op panlist to ask if anyone 
had experienced anything similar. 
What had happened to Marcus 
paled in comparison to the responses 
she 
remembers 
receiving. 
One 
student, Chrysanthi Leon, then a 
visible campus lesbian (she and her 
girlfriend had been featured in a 
Valentine’s Day issue of The Herald) 
and now an assistant professor of 
sociology and criminal justice at the 
University of Delaware, had also 
received threatening phone calls. She 
and her girlfriend had experienced 
other acts of violence, such as being 
surrounded on Chapel Street by 
men who spat on them, which they 
believed to have surged up from an 
undercurrent of violent homophobia 
on campus. Marcus thought, “I’m 
going to organize around this.” She 
pushed aside her work with labor




**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
18
19
The New Journal
WInter 2010-2011
though she likes to thinking things 
have improved.
Even so, this fall, the story of Delta 
Kappa Epsilon’s (DKE) freshmen 
pledges chanting, “no means yes, yes 
means anal,” on Old Campus made 
national news, and Marcus heard 
disturbing echoes of her time here. 
It was as though, in spite of all the 
efforts she and students have made 
since to raise awareness and promote 
sexual respect, nothing had changed. 
Marcus was only slightly heartened 
when she heard that administrative 
action had been taken because, she 
feels, “that doesn’t change the fact 
that the male culture of being a 
douchebag still persists.”
Miller, by contrast, said she 
feels safe here speaking out about 
her sexuality. “It’s great to be 
able to say, ‘Yeah, I was part of a 
progressive institution,’” she said. 
Soon after she arrived on campus, 
she was receiving e-mails from the 
Women’s Center and the LGBTQ 
Co-op about phone campaigns to 
encourage congressmen to repeal 
Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. And when 
Miller, who became something of 
a media celebrity after coming-out 
and leaving West Point publicly 
last spring, needed to miss class for 
an interview or for other advocacy 
activities, she found her professors 
were supportive.
Marcus thinks that if she had 
experienced what she did in 2010 
instead of 1997, somebody might 
have listened. Seeing the mass of 
signatures on an online petition for 
the administration to take action 
in response to the DKE incident 
made her hope that the Internet has 
made it easier to “harness outrage” 
and publicize traumatic events. 
Indeed, this year, the administration 
responded to the incident within 
a week by setting up a task force, 
chastising DKE, and holding a 
number of campus events. When 
Marcus was at Yale, “there was 
nobody to tell,” but this story, and 
that of Katie Miller, suggest things 
have changed. Still, at the same 
university where a story like Marcus’ 
took so long to come to light, there’s 
no way to be sure.
TNJ
Emily Rappaport is a fresh-
man in Ezra Stiles College.
Spring 1996, New Haven Courthouse - 
Marcus and  her classmates after they were sentenced to 
community service for protesting inside President Levin’s 
ofﬁce. Marcus is third from left in the front row. 
Visit us online at www.thenewjournalatyale.com.
To write, edit, design, draw or photograph for The New Journal, 
email thenewjournal@gmail.com. 


<br>

**Page number(s): 11**

20
21
  SHOTS IN THE DARK
“We took our bikes and ex-
plored areas around New 
Haven that people may not 
usually see. We documented 
our travels and ended up 
finding a lot of interesting 
places to explore.”
By Autumn von Plinsky & Ellen Su
The Elm City By Bicycle



**Title: NUMBERS GAME: an investigation of eating disorders at Yale**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreud**
**Page number(s): 12**

22
23
NUMBERS
GAME: an investigation of eating disorders at Yale
    FEATURE
that when most people hear about 
someone with an eating disorder, 
they want to ask, “Why can’t she just 
go eat a hamburger?” not realizing 
how little these mental illnesses 
have to do with the food itself. It’s 
the same question parents and 
friends want to ask when they first 
confront one of these illnesses—
the  simple, naïve, and desperate 
question: Why can’t you just eat?
For 
God’s 
sake, 
just 
eat!
A
lex is unusual in that she may 
       be exactly what many 
people think of when they think 
of a girl with anorexia. (She has 
also been through periods of 
bulimia, exercise bulimia, and binge 
eating.) In high school, she was a 
valedictorian and a cheerleader. 
“In Texas, we do cheerleading the 
way people do piano lessons,” she 
says. She started in fourth grade. 
Cheer was a class in high school, 
in addition to practice after school. 
She was also on a competitive 
cheerleading 
team 
unaffiliated 
with the school. “I was expected 
to be a certain way,” she says. The 
uniforms for her competitive cheer 
squad had low necklines and were 
cut just above the girls’ thighs.
As I have done with the names 
of the other students in this piece, 
I’ve changed Alex’s name to write 
about her eating disorder, which 
began to develop when she was in 
tenth grade. In eleventh grade, her 
cheer coach told her she couldn’t 
continue at her low weight, but Alex 
didn’t make any effort to change her 
eating patterns. So when she came 
to Yale, the weekly weigh-ins made 
her eating unpredictable. “Numbers 
just make you more paranoid. If you 
gain a pound, you don’t see it as a 
good thing,” she said. “Unless you’ve 
made the decision to get better, 
you’re really pissed at yourself.”
If 
Alex’s 
weight 
increased 
during a week, she would be more 
restrictive in the following week. 
Yet Alex wanted to stay at Yale, so 
when she lost weight, she would 
binge. “It’s the scariest situation,” 
she told me. “You just can’t stop.”
case 
shows 
what 
mandatory weigh-ins can and can’t 
accomplish. Yale can effectively 
force students to accept treatment 
by offering them a choice between 
going to the clinic and going home. 
But since nobody can begin to 
recover from an eating disorder 
until he or she has decided that 
she wants to be healthy, the 
school can’t force anyone to be 
healthy. All the system can really 
do 
is 
prevent 
hospitalizations.
When I wrote Yale psychiatrist 
Dr. Carole Goldberg to ask about 
the 
weigh-ins, 
she 
responded 
simply, “Weigh-ins are necessary 
when someone’s weight is at a 
dangerous/life threatening BMI,”1 
and added that students have the 
choice whether they want to see 
their body weights, in other words 
whether they step on the scale 
forward or backward. Alex noted 
that the choice is never made clear 
to students who are coming in to be 
weighed. She adds that if a person 
with an eating disorder hasn’t 
decided they want to improve, they 
won’t ask for their weight to remain 
hidden, and even if they are given 
the choice, they might still want 
to know. A better policy might be 
to require Student Medicine staff 
to explicitly offer every student 
being weighed the choice of seeing 
her weight or even to disallow 
her 
from 
seeing 
weight.
Alex is still alarmingly thin, and 
food can still be difficult for her. She is 
barely above the school’s minimum 
BMI right now, she confides. “I’ve 
been above and below the line 
so many times, I can’t count.”
I
t 
almost 
impossible 
for 
a 
person 
    who has not experienced 
an eating disorder to understand 
what it is like to suffer from one. Try 
imagining, I’m told, that someone 
follows you around everywhere 
you go, berating you for what 
she sees as your shortcomings. 
This person also talks incessantly 
about food, telling you how many 
calories are in the food around you, 
calculating how many you’ve eaten, 
multiplying calories by servings, 
adding up meals and subtracting 
how long you’ve exercised and 
how many steps you’ve taken. She’s 
exact. She will certainly remind 
you about things like mayonnaise 
on a sandwich or the milk and 
sugar in your coffee (although 
people 
with 
eating 
disorders 
tend to drink their coffee black).
Or imagine that not eating for 
you is like cigarettes for a chain-
smoker; that vomiting puts you in a 
good mood. Imagine that you have 
suppressed your body’s ability to 
feel hunger and satiety, that food is 
no longer food for you. A longtime 
family friend offers you a plate of 
homemade cookies, and when you 
take one you pick it up as you would 
pick up a spider. When you eat it, 
you pledge, “This is the last cookie 
I will ever eat in my life.” When you 
Anorexia left a kind 
of scar on Alex’s 
mind; for just about 
every food she has 
eaten, the disease 
carved a number 
into her memory.
lex 
knows 
how 
many 
calories 
     are in an egg. 
She knows how many calories 
are in a yolk, and how many are 
in the white. “That’s something I 
will know for the rest of my life,” 
she said. “That’s a raw fact. That’s 
like three times three for me.”
The number of calories is only 
one side of the equation, though. 
The number of pounds is the other, 
and for a while, Alex wasn’t the only 
one closely tracking Alex’s body 
weight. Yale requires some students 
with abnormally low body weights 
to present themselves at Student 
Medicine once a week to be 
weighed. Students whose weights 
do not increase are asked to leave 
the school for medical reasons. Alex 
was weighed once a week when she 
was a freshman. At the clinic, she 
would list what she had eaten that 
week on a form, though not always 
truthfully, urinate in a cup so she 
couldn’t water-load to hide weight 
loss, and change into a paper gown 
so she couldn’t hide weights in 
the pockets of her clothes. Then 
she would step onto the scale.
For me, a young adult male of 
average height and weight, it was 
hard to see why the school would 
consider treating Alex’s case with 
such draconian severity. In a society 
obsessed with food, what makes 
these  particular students’ obsession 
with food so dangerous? And I was 
taken aback when Alex, who on the 
whole seems healthy and perfectly 
sane, revealed she could still recite 
caloric contents for so many foods. 
Anorexia left a kind of scar on 
Alex’s mind; for just about every 
food she has eaten, the disease 
carved a number into her memory.
She had mentioned earlier 
81
21g
total carbs
163%
vitamin c



**Title: The Numbers Game**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreud**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
24
25
The New Journal
WInter 2010-2011
wake up in the morning on a day 
when you know you won’t have 
time to work out, you start figuring 
out how you will eat less to make 
up for it. You never weigh yourself, 
because the last time you weighed 
yourself the amount of weight you 
had gained was so terrifying you 
didn’t leave your room for four 
days, nauseated with despair. It’s 
easier not to go to social gatherings 
than to go and refuse food that’s 
offered to you, and it’s easier not 
to talk to anyone than to have 
to answer questions about what 
you’re doing to yourself, so you 
spend a lot of time on your own. 
You hide from your roommates so 
they don’t notice you coming back 
from your second trip to the gym in 
a day. You start measuring bananas 
to make sure they aren’t longer 
than the standard size for bananas 
used in calculating caloric intake.
Measuring 
bananas 
is 
important, 
because 
there 
are 
always numbers in your head. 
Calories, grams, cups, servings, 
steps, miles, bites, pounds. Smaller 
numbers are good and exciting; 
larger numbers are frightening. 
If it seems as though everything 
you know is falling apart, numbers 
are something you can control. 
They reduce all your problems into 
one problem, like a math problem 
with one right answer, and losing 
weight is like solving the problem 
and getting the right answer.


That was the mindset of Aimee 
Liu, a junior at Yale in 1974, when 
eating lunch with Jen, a Political 
Science-African 
Studies 
double 
major, and Lia, an Economics major. 
That day, Liu remembers in her 
2007 bestseller Gaining: The Truth 
About Life After Eating Disorders, Jen 
and Lia, both seniors, were planning 
out their lives after graduation.
“As Lia chewed her tuna 
fish 
sandwich,” 
Liu 
writes, 
“I 
was calculating that one bite 
contained 50 calories, five grams of 
carbohydrates, and four grams of fat. 
The mayonnaise made the waxed 
paper glint in the bright sun. I tried 
to imagine not noticing the oil, not 
thinking about the water weight 
the salt from the Fritos would cause. 
I tried to understand how Lia could 
ignore what she was putting into 
her mouth and focus on her future.”


This was in 1974, although it 
might as well have been written 
in 2010. Liu was in the third class 
of women to graduate from Yale. 
“There were a lot of us walking 
around campus with anorexia, 
and a lot of us, less obviously, with 
bulimia,” she told me. “It appalls 
me now to look back on what I 
squandered when I was at Yale. 
The eating disorder had really 
stunted my brain. I couldn’t read 
properly, I couldn’t think properly, 
because my brain was starved.”


Liu has spent much of the 
intervening decades learning and 
writing about eating disorders. She 
asked me to make sure I mentioned 
the book in this article, since she 
feels that it offers useful advice on 
how to recover or help someone 
recover from an eating disorder. 
Her own recovery took several 
years, and began, as she recalls in 
Gaining, with a love affair. In her 
junior year, she met a graduate 
student studying sculpture. People 
with eating disorders, she told 
me, need “friends, lovers, who are 
not judgmental, who have the 
patience to look past the eating 
disorder and really separate the 
person from the condition, who 
treat food as an expression of love 
and affection and acceptance,” who 
can help someone learn not to 
see food as being right or wrong.


An 
estimated 
percent 
of 
college students suffer from an 
eating disorder (most of whom are 
women—there are about seven 
women with anorexia or bulimia 
nervosa for every man).  Yet there are 
at least two reasons why students 
at a school such as Yale might 
be more likely to develop eating 
disorders, 
especially 
anorexia. 
There’s 
a 
correlation 
between 
anorexia and personality traits 
that could make an anorexic high 
school senior more likely to attend 
a selective college. “Obsessional 
perfectionists are at increased risk 
for anorexia nervosa, so vulnerable 
individuals are often high achievers 
academically,” Dr. Angela Guarda, 
director of the Eating Disorders 
Program at the Johns Hopkins 
Hospital, explained in an e-mail. 
Other researchers noted that the 
stress of leaving home for the 
first time, which brings on eating 
disorders in many predisposed 
freshmen, might be compounded 
by 
the 
intensely 
competitive 
environment at a school such as Yale.


Eating disorders were not yet 
recognized as mental illnesses 
when Liu was at Yale. “There wasn’t 
any treatment,” she said. “I went to 
DUH (Department of University 
Health) and actually tried to get 
some help, and instead, people 
just said, you need to gain a little 
weight. Period. End of story.”


I briefly described Alex’s weigh-
ins for Liu. “The weighing thing 
is really tricky—it’s really really 
tricky, because it’s not the only 
barometer of health, and it’s such 
a humiliating exercise for people 
to go through, especially if they’re 
singling out certain people for 
this treatment,” she said.“It doesn’t 
sound like a great policy to me, 
but on the other hand I don’t have 
an easy solution or an alternative.”


S
ymptoms of anorexia are 
   commonly described in 
medical literature of the 17th, 18th, 
and 19th centuries, but physicians 
then did not distinguish eating 
disorders from other psychological 
conditions. They termed these 
behaviors 
melancholy, 
hysteria, 
or something equally nonspecific 
and chalked them up to the 
mysterious 
and 
unpredictable 
anatomies 
women.


But as historian Rudoph M. Bell 
argues in his book Holy Anorexia, 
an epidemic which can now be 
identified as anorexia nervosa 
struck European convents in the late 
medieval period. The sisters aspired 
to an ideal of holiness as some 
anorexic women of today aspire to 
an ideal of beauty. According to Bell’s 
research, more than half of the 170 
female saints who lived in Europe 
since the year 1200 and for whom 
a reliable historical record exists 
“displayed clear signs of anorexia”. 
St. Catherine of Siena, born in 
that city in 1347, was “the classic 
anorexic,” in Liu’s words. She was 
also an active and influential figure 
during her life, tirelessly caring for 
the sick in convent hospitals and 
helping to persuade Pope Gregory 
XI to return the papacy to Rome 
from Avignon, France, where the 
papal court had lain since 1309. 
Her restrained eating habits were 
also well known, however, and 
many, including her family, thought 
she was possessed or a witch.


No one really understands the 
combination of social, psychological, 
and genetic or chemical factors that 
cause eating disorders. But fasting 
in Catherine’s day suggests those 
mechanisms predate our time. 


 think this campus has a 
terrible problem, and I think 
people need to talk about it,” 
Tonya had said at the end of our 
first meeting. We had been talking 
outside a coffee shop, smartly 
dressed graduate students and 
older, professorial couples with 
foreign accents going by on the 
sidewalk. The noise of construction 
equipment came from across the 
street, where a university building 
was undergoing renovations. It 
was a warm fall day, the leaves just 
beginning to turn. At one point, 
someone Tonya knew to have 
an eating disorder walked past 
us. “This is not the best place to 
be in recovery,” Tonya remarked.


Eating disorders, particularly 
anorexia, can make people viciously 
competitive, driven to look thinner 
than the thinnest of their peers, to 
push unhealthy habits to further 
extremes. At Yale, this aspect of the 
illness has created a kind of invisible 
sisterhood whose members are 
often engaged in unspoken and 
potentially dangerous contests with 
one another. Alex called it “a gym 
cult.” “You’re running on the elliptical 
next to a girl,” she said, “and you’re 
like, ‘Her thighs are smaller, but oh, 
my calves are smaller, so it’s O.K.’ It’s 
a sick, sadistic competition, because 
really, 
you’re 
hurting 
yourself.”


Pomegranate
Nutrition Facts: Serving Size - 282 g, Calories - 234, Calories from Fat - 28, Total Fat - 3g (5%), Saturated Fat 0g (2%), Trans 
Fat (0g), Cholesterol 0mg (0%), Sodium 8mg (0%), Total Carbohydrate 53g (18%), Dietary Fiber 11g (45%), Sugars 39g, Protein 5g, 
Vitamin A (0%), Vitamin C (48%), Calcium (3%), Iron (5%). *Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet


---

**Title: The Gym Cult**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

26
27
Today, Tonya is waiting for 
me just inside the cavernous maw 
of Payne Whitney, Yale’s castle 
of a gymnasium, at the base of 
its nine-storey tower. “So how 
do you envision this working?” 
she asks after we’ve gone inside. 
I didn’t really have a plan. I just 
wanted to follow Tonya to the 
gym and work out with someone 
who 
works 
out 
obsessively.
“I just have to say,” she goes on, 
“cardio is the most solitary thing I do.”


Tonya’s 
symptoms, 
overexercise and daily alternation 
between binges and periods of 
restriction when she was in high 
school, fall into the category 
psychologists call “eating disorder 
not otherwise specified,” or EDNOS. 
She is healthier now than she was 
then, but she still counts calories 
obsessively, and she had recently 
gone to the gym at 10:30 at night 
because she was feeling anxious. 
After working out, she felt better.


“I can never look in the mirror 
and know how I really look, because 
I can’t trust anything about my 
mind,” she had told me. When 
she looks at her abdomen in the 
mirror, “probably 85 percent of the 
time it’s this gross cellulity mass of 
disgustingness. I know that can’t be 
true—physically it just can’t be true.”


She has spent too much time in 
the gym for it to be true, and after 
we’ve taken the elevator to the 
fitness center on the fourth floor, 
I also wonder how she could ever 
think that it could be true. She walks 
past me toward the treadmills—her 
body is muscular and lean. “For 
people I know who have eating 
disorders, it’s not about being thin 
or fit,” Tonya told me. She swam for 
ten years and played field hockey 
in high school, so she was always in 
good shape. She’s never looked thin, 
she told me (“I have a lot of muscle 
mass—thank God, frankly, because 
I would have been dead”) but I can’t 
imagine her ever looking fat either.


She talks rapidly, and I usually 
have to interrupt her if I want to 
ask her a question. “This is what 
it’s like when my eating disorder 
is in the driver’s seat,” she once 
apologized.“Talking so fast and from 
so many angles I want to scream. 
Instead I just work out or deprive 
myself of food.” When Tonya says 
something darkly self-deprecating 
like that, it’s hard to know how to 
respond. On the one hand, her 
jokes can be very funny, and you 
have the feeling she’d like you to 
laugh at them. But you also know 
that she’s joking because it’s a way 
of dealing with what’s happened to 
her, with what she’s done to herself.


I step onto a treadmill beside 
her, and glancing at the numbers on 
her display, set the speed to one or 
two tenths of a mile below hers. I’m 
reasonably fit, but I have no desire to 
race Tonya, since I’m sure she would 
win. Besides, in the back of my mind 
there’s a story she told me about 
a trip to the gym in her residential 
college 
one 
day 
last 
spring.


The gym was busy, and there 
was only one treadmill free. Tonya 
left her wallet and keys on the 
treadmill to reserve it and went 
to the bathroom, but when she 
returned another girl had moved 
her things off the treadmill and was 
running on it. The other girl was also 
struggling with an eating disorder, 
Tonya knew, by that frightening 
instinct many people with eating 
disorders seem to have for picking 
out others with similar problems. 
Tonya and the girl on the treadmill 
began to argue and scream at 
each other. Later, Tonya wrote an 
enraged email to her therapist 
and nutritionist. “I hope she falls 
down five flights of stairs, breaks 
both legs, and gains 50 pounds,” 
she 
remembers 
telling 
them. 
“That’s how I felt,” she tells me. 


I look over at a girl stretching 
on the mats next to us. She is very 
flexible and bony, and I find myself 
wondering about her, though I 
wouldn’t have given her a second 
thought before I began reporting 
this article. I steal glances at her 
elbows, her hair, the tendons in her 
neck, and the knock of her knees, 
looking for anything abnormal. 
That’s not how Tonya would see her, 
I realize, even if Tonya were still as 
sick as she once was. Would Tonya 
instead have admired the bones 
in her calves, the self-denial in her 
drawn cheeks? I can only imagine.


The gym is strangely quiet. It’s 
a big room, and any human noise 
is lost in the whirr of the ventilation 
and the machines. The girl on the 
mat leaves, and a while later, after 
Tonya has gone for a spin on one of 
the stationary bikes, she and I are on 
the treadmills again, cooling down.
“You 
caught 
me 
on 
an 
abnormally good workout day,” 
she says. “I’m not, like, dying.”
“I am, a little bit,” I admit.


The two of us run through 
some sit-ups and push-ups and 
get ready to go. “I have mountains 
of work,” Tonya says. The life 
of a Yale student: reading and 
studying until late tonight, at 
work until 1 tomorrow afternoon, 
and class at 2:30 until evening. 
We walk down rows of people on 
treadmills, ellipticals, stair-steppers, 
stationary 
bikes, 
recumbent 
bikes, and rowing machines. Is 
this an especially healthy subset 
of the Yale population, or one 
that 
peculiarly 
diseased?


“One more thing,” Tonya offers, 
as we descend the stairs down to 
the main floor. She takes the stairs 
down from the fourth floor fitness 
center, but she always takes the 
elevator up. “That’s my concession 
to myself, that I don’t have to do 
everything. Basically, I’m weird.”


I tell Tonya she seems quite 
healthy to me. She does, especially 
given some of the stories I’ve heard 
about people who are very ill.
“I’m working on it. I’m working 
on it, and that’s what counts.”


I
t can be difficult not to feel in 
    awe of someone like Tonya 
her 
inhuman 
routine 
workouts and restricted eating. 
As Kelly put it to me, “Anorexia 
makes you superhuman in ways 
that eventually make you die.”


A year ago last summer, Kelly 
decided to go for a run. She came 
home tired out after about five 
minutes. The next day, she ran for 
fifteen minutes. The day after that, 
she ran for three miles. She ran every 
day after that, adding other exercises 
to her routine and beginning to 
restrict her eating. She was anorexic 
before leaving for Europe for a term 
abroad at the end of the summer.


Much of the time she was sick 
she does not remember. “It feels 
like a different person,” she told me. 
“In a lot of ways I think it was. It is.”


Kelly remembers announcing 
to her friends one day in high 
school that she could never become 
anorexic because she would be 
too hungry. “I was a dorky kid who 
watched the Food Network,” she told 
me. As a teenager, she would throw 
fancy dinner parties at her house for 
her friends on her birthday, cooking 
and baking all day. Her mother 
was the sous-chef and her father, 
with a towel over his arm, was 
the waiter. I asked Kelly about her 
favorite dishes to prepare: squash 
soup, handmade gnocchi with 
homemade pesto and tomatoes 
and red peppers, crème caramels, 
trifles, berry compotes and coulis. “I 
loved macerating berries in alcohol. 
That was one of my favorite things 
to do.” In fact, many people who 
suffer from eating disorders loved 
to cook as children or become 
fascinated by cooking, cookbooks, 
and cooking shows, perhaps as a 
way of vicariously enjoying food.


Now, Kelly is earnest and 
cheerful 
deliberately, 
exaggeratedly sarcastic (“Oh, that’s 
interesting!”). When 
came 
home from Europe in the middle of 
her program there, almost exactly 
a year before I met her, she was 
lifeless. Her physician explained 
to her family that her brain had 
enough 
energy 
for 
breathing 
and walking and not much else.


Kelly was able to return to 
Yale in time for the start of the 
spring term. Compared to many 
students here who have suffered 
from eating disorders for years, 
Kelly thinks she’s fortunate. Her 
recovery is indeed impressive. “This 
was a real disease, and I needed to 
make it better,” she said. “It’s not 
just a condition, but a malfunction, 
and I could correct it.” She did.
“I am a smart person. I 
know that not eating is not 
smart 
idea,” 
laughed.


I met Kelly’s parents the day 
they came to Yale to see her last a 
cappella concert, where they sat a 
few rows in front of me, her mother 
watching the show through her 
digital camera, even though the 
group records all its shows with 
professional equipment. Kelly is an 
alto. She had a cold that afternoon, 
but couldn’t bear to miss her 
Measuring is important, 
because there are always numbers in your head. 
Calories, grams, cups, servings, steps, miles, bites, pounds. 
Small numbers are good and exciting; 


Orange (raw, with peel)
Nutrition Facts: Serving Size - 170 g, 
Calories - 107, Calories from Fat - 4, Total 
Fat - 1g (1%), Saturated Fat 0g (0%), Trans 
Fat (0g), Cholesterol 0mg (0%), Sodium 
3mg (0%), Total Carbohydrate 26g (9%), 
Dietary Fiber 8g (31%), Sugars, Protein 2g, 
Vitamin A (8%), Vitamin C (201%), Calcium 
(12%), Iron (8%). *Percent Daily Values are 
based on a 2,000 calorie diet



**Title:  Shirataki Noodles**
**Page number(s): 15**

28
29
final show. She soloed on the 
closing medley, one hand in the 
air, wagging her finger at the 
audience. Sass is the only word for 
what Kelly has on stage. “Thanks 
so much for coming,” she told the 
audience as the singers continued 
behind her. In a moment the song 
was over, someone gave Kelly a 
bouquet for her last performance, 
lights 
on.


A 
scene 
like 
that—the 
hall’s elaborate oaken ceiling 
disappearing into shadow near 
its high peak, Kelly in the center 
of a series of group embraces 
on stage—belongs in a Yale 
College admissions video. But 
the materials Yale sends out to 
tens of thousands of prospective 
freshmen each year do not include 
the stories of those students 
for whom an eating disorder is 
another central component of the 
liberal-arts college experience.


B
y the time St. Catherine of 
     Siena was seven, she 
was throwing meat under the 
table when her mother tried to 
force her to eat. This may not yet 
have been symptomatic of an 
eating disorder, but Catherine 
was almost certainly anorexic by 
her adolescence, when mother 
wanted her to marry her sister’s 
widower and Catherine rebelled 
by fasting continually. Her family 
sent her to their priest, who told 
Catherine to eat once a day. She 
did eat, but she would always 
vomit afterward. This continued 
throughout her life and even 
after she joined a convent—
others would urge her to eat, and 
when she ate she would purge, 
gagging herself with a twig of 
fennel or a goose feather. (She 
continued to take communion.)


Catherine starved to death at 
33. Anorexia nervosa, that very real 
demon born of the human mind’s 
imperfections, is the deadliest 
psychiatric illness. Women with 
anorexia are twelve times more 
likely to die young than women 
without the disease. By the 
sixteenth 
century, 
asceticism 
was heresy, and the Church was 
burning anorexics at the stake.


 few weeks after I first met 
          Alex, I had been taught 
quite a bit about eating disorders, 
but there was still something I 
wanted to try for myself. I had 
written Kelly an email after 
she had told me about a kind 
of tofu-based noodle with no 
carbohydrates called shirataki 
(“because 
pasta—pasta 
has 
actual sustenance! You can’t have 
that.”). She replied with a link to a 
website offering women recipes 
with very-low-calorie ingredients. 
According to the site’s author, 
Lisa Lillien, the noodles are “an 
AMAZING pasta swap…As long 
as you prepare them right. It’s 
really important to rinse them, 
drain them, and dry them. Sure 
they’re a little high maintenance, 
but they’re totally worth it. I 
mean—HELLO!?—they 
have 
only 20 calories per serving!!!”


I find the noodles at 
a small grocery store around 
the corner from my dormitory 
where Kelly directed me, along 
with a small wheel of low-calorie 
cheese that she suggested in 
her email “(which, P.S., if you 
have only 35 calories YOU ARE 
NOT CHEESE).” While the clerk 
swipes 
noodles, 
cheese, 
and a can of tomato sauce, I 
ask if the shirataki are popular. 
He restocks them every week.


I’ve arranged to use my 
friends’ kitchen this evening. 
Before the apartment’s tenants 
leave 
with 
key, 
my 
notebook, and my very-low-
calorie food, I have to ask one of 
them to look up a word for me. 
Next to the logo of Lillien’s web 
site indicating her endorsement, 
the instructions on the back of 
the packages of the shirataki 
read, “Parboil for 2-3 minutes to 
remove authentic aroma. Dry 
very well.” To parboil just means to 
boil partially, although, according 
to Wikipedia, “Parboiling can 
also be used for removing 
poisonous 
or 
foul-tasting 
substances 
from 
foodstuffs.”


The 
noodles 
packaged in liquid and need to be 
drained first in a colander in the 
sink. They are weirdly white and 
gelatinous, sitting in the colander, 
but otherwise unremarkable. I lift 
a forkful to my nose to see if I can 
pick up the “authentic aroma.”


It’s 
certainly 
there—faint, 
but entirely nauseating, like 
rotting fish, but sweeter. The 
noodles go into a pot of boiling 
water, and the smell fills the 
kitchen for a few moments before 
dissipating. I let them parboil 
longer than the recommended 
two to three minutes to be safe. 
It’s not long enough to cook 
them, though, and it’s now 
apparent to me that the noodles 
must be edible directly out of 
the package and that boiling is 
only necessary to eliminate the 
smell. After straining, rinsing, 
and drying, I throw some of the 
noodles on a plate, ladle tomato 
sauce on top, and sit down.


The sauce is too red, the 
noodles are too white. And there 
is still something sickly sweet, 
papery, and foul about the 
smell—I feel my gag reflex when 
I raise my fork to my mouth. Kelly 
definitely didn’t warn me about 
this. The noodles have no flavor, 
though. Apparently shirataki, like 
some other Asian foods, smells 
much worse than it tastes. Except 
that when you bite the noodles 
as you would pasta, they squish 
but don’t quite come apart. 
You have to slurp them down 
your throat or chew for a longer 
time than feels comfortable.


The second course is 
the “horribly fake alfredo” Kelly 
mentioned in her e-mail, made 
with the cheese that is not cheese. 
The noodles don’t smell as much, 
presumably since they’ve had 
a little more time to dry. But the 
cheese tastes just a little sharper 
than cheese should. It’s a chemical 
flavor. And you’d never know 
how much flavor plain pasta has 
unless you were to try shirataki.


It’s very filling. Since 
I’m not anorexic, I made sure 
to eat a healthy dinner before 
coming 
here, 
but 
should 
have listened more carefully to 
Kelly—the noodles don’t have 
many calories, but they take 
up space in your stomach. It’s 
like drinking too much water. 


 week after her concert, 
          Kelly and I had agreed 
to meet up outside of Froyo 
World (110 calories per K serving, 
I later learned). But there was a 
bit of a chill in the autumn air 
that afternoon, and Kelly was still 
getting over her cold, so instead 
we decided to walk a couple of 
blocks to a bookstore and café 
where we had met before. Kelly 
apologized and suggested the 
two of us have dinner sometime 
when she was feeling better. Not 
wanting frozen yogurt because 
you have a cold shouldn’t be 
anything to apologize for. “If I were 
a normal human being, I would 
just do what I wanted,” she said. 
As long as she can’t without 
second-guessing 
herself, 
hasn’t recovered entirely. “It’s not 
something that just goes away,” 
she told me. Her boyfriend had 
been asking about her eating 
since she’d come down with the 
cold. That week she had also asked 
her Biological Anthropology T.A. to 
be excused from an assignment on 
human diet that involved keeping 
track of everything she ate for 
several days. “I can remember 
being so normal, and then this 
block of crazy, and now I’m here.”


Few 
people 
would 
call 
students at a school such as Yale or 
the environment in which we work 
and live “normal,” but that does not 
mean we all have eating disorders. 
When Kelly says she is not normal, 
she means it differently. Yale 
students are more susceptible 
than the general population to the 
common cold, because we don’t 
sleep enough and spend much 
of our time in close proximity to 
one another. That does not mean 
a person with a disease is healthy, 
that there is nothing that can be 
done to prevent the spread of 
illness, or that people who are sick 
can never get well. That much is true 
of eating disorders as well as colds.


Like Kelly’s, my nose was 
running earlier this fall, too. But I 
have never had an eating disorder, 
and no matter how much I learn 
about obsession and addiction, 
about prevention and treatment or 
about the complicated arithmetic 
that is Kelly’s illness, I will never 
really be able to understand what 
she has experienced. Tomorrow 
morning I can eat something 
nutritious and tasty and enjoy 
it, as I will at lunch and dinner 
and at breakfast the next day. 
For 
some, 
every 
meal 
as 
repulsive 
thisone. 


Pear 
(asian, raw)
Nutrition Facts: Serving 
Size - 122g, Calories - 51, Calo-
ries from Fat - 2, Total Fat - 0g 
(0%), Saturated Fat 0g (0%), 
Trans Fat (0g), Cholesterol 
0mg (0%), Sodium 0mg (0%), 
Total Carbohydrate 13g (4%), 
Dietary Fiber 4g (18%), Sug-
ars 9g, Protein 1g, Vitamin A 
(0%), Vitamin C (8%), Calcium 
(0%), Iron (50%). 
*Percent Daily Values are 



**Maps**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Austin stared straight past the Rolos, Snickers, and Skittles at the New York City subway map taped to the newsstand window. When I called to him, he merely blinked and continued tracing the map’s lines with his eyes. I took his hand and tried to pull him down Third Avenue, but he dug in his heels and screeched. 

Reaching into my pocket, I fished out two quarters and plonked them on the counter. “Here you go, Columbus,” the vendor joked as he slid Austin a flimsy paper map. “Happy exploring.” 

At home, I watched Austin unfold the map on his floor, next to his perfect column of Hot Wheels. Red, green, and orange lines dashed through the map’s ochre boroughs and gray-blue waterways. At the top, in the Bronx, they diffused like a child’s outstretched fingers, curving to their respective termini: Van Cortlandt, Woodlawn, Wakefield, Eastchester, Pelham Bay. 

Austin gazed hardest at upper Manhattan, where the routes straightened out and were joined by the cobalt A-line. Like many autistic children, Austin has always preferred straight to twisting. Straight is predictable. Straight is safe.  

Below 59th Street, south of the mossy rectangle of Central Park, the red, green, orange, and blue routes bisected cross-town yellow, gray, and purple routes in such a jumble Austin had to use his finger to keep himself on track. At Manhattan’s southern tip, the lines extended through the East River, splitting suddenly when they hit Brooklyn’s shore and dispersing inland like capillaries. 

The map quickly revealed Austin’s obsessive study habits. The lines became sticky: he had paved them in syrup as he traced their contours over breakfast. The starchy paper wrinkled and ripped: he often slept with the map under his pillow, as if hoping its contents would osmose into his memory. The bottom eighth of the map was torn away: Austin had inadvertently submerged the Upper Bay in real water during a bath. 

After a few weeks with the map, Austin knew how to travel from Columbia to NYU, the Financial District to Harlem, and DUMBO to the Upper East Side. He could tell you the 6 train’s every stop, where the F crossed the East River, and the exact street where the 1 merges with the 2 and 3. And yet he had never actually traveled by subway. 

Though he has become more flexible, Austin once responded to unexpected situations with the virulence most save for life-threatening emergencies. Abrupt noises led to howls, surprising sights to foot-stomping, and unanticipated contact to head-banging. Exposing


**30**
**31**
**The New Journal**
**WInter 2010-2011**
Austin to the subway, it seemed, 
would not be wise. If it weren’t 
the blaring jazz bands, the jostling 
businessmen, or the homeless 
panhandlers, something was sure 
to set Austin off.

But one day, Austin and 
his babysitter, Bara, had no 
choice. Late for Austin’s therapy 
appointment, they rushed from 
our apartment building to find 
it was pouring and there were 
no available taxis. Braving the 
subway was the only sure way to 
be on time.  

As he tiptoed down the 
slippery steps of 76th Street station, 
Austin held Bara’s index finger 
with his left hand and covered 
an ear with his right, trying 
to muffle the din. When they 
reached the platform, commuters 
stared as he rhythmically shifted 
his weight from foot to foot 
and compulsively clicked his 
tongue.  After a few interminable 
minutes, the 6 train rolled in and 
he released Bara’s hand, bursting 
into a flurry of arm-flapping. 
“Calm 
hands, 
Austin,” 
Bara pled. They sidled into the 
smooth plastic chairs, still warm 
from their previous occupants, 
and he continued flailing. As 
he reached around for a safety 
belt out of habit (in the subway, 
there are none), Austin glimpsed 
something 
familiar: 
a 
huge 
subway map hanging behind his 
seat. He faced forward and rested 
his hands in his lap. Under his 
breath he muttered the stops he 
knew came next: 68th Street, 59th 
Street, 51st Street, Grand Central 
Station.  

“See,” Bara said, more to 
herself than to Austin. “Not so 
bad.”

The train jolted out of the 
station, and a woman holding 
a cat carrier lunged forward, 
steadying herself by pressing a 
wrinkled hand against Austin’s 
knee. Bara braced for an explosion 
--—Austin 
abhorred 
being 
touched, even by our mother—
but it never came. Instead, he 
stared blankly at the woman, 
then calmly turned his gaze back 
toward the map, his sliver-thin 
lips pursed in contentment. 

He knew where he was 
going. 

Austin’s experience on the 
subway fueled his fixation with 
maps. Like a safety blanket, a 
map came to mean comfort. 
Maps made him master of the 
unforeseen. 

After digesting the subway’s 
24 lines and 468 stops, he 
memorized 
the 
meandering 
metropolitan highway system 
that connects New York City to 
our grandmother’s nursing home 
in Rye. By his first visit to Yale, 
he could instruct me to walk 
down Chapel Street past College, 
Temple, Church, Orange, State, 
and Olive to meet my family 
at Pepe’s, a pizzeria over a mile 
from central campus in an area of 
New Haven I had never explored 
and he had seen only on a map. 
After inhaling a mozzarella pie, 
he navigated as my Dad drove 
his SUV through the Elm City’s 
byzantine network of one-way 
streets back to Route 34. 

For the last few years, Austin’s 
obsession has included imaginary 
maps. When I come home from 
school, he insists that we play The 
Game of LIFE with my middle 
brother, Jared. He doesn’t fully 
understand the rules but gleefully 
plops his plastic station wagon 
along the serpentine track. He 
reminds Jared and me to “STOP!” 
at the red spaces signifying major 
life events: JOB SEARCH, GET 
MARRIED, FIND A HOUSE. 

According to the game’s rule 
manual, “players must stop on 
these spots “even if the spin is 
greater than the number needed 
to land on them.” 

I’m not an expert—in my 
own life I’ve yet to reach the first 
of those red squares—but I know 
that real life doesn’t resemble 
either a LIFE game board or 
a subway map. Journeys get 
derailed, paths change, and there 
are no scheduled stops. This is 
particularly true for Austin. 

	
Maybe one day he will 
experience the rites of passage 
LIFE demands of its players. 
Maybe, as he has done in the 
game, he’ll buy a Victorian 
mansion, find a wife, and land a 
job as an airplane mechanic. Or 
maybe he’ll live with one of us—a 
small blue action figure in one of 
our station wagons. We just can’t 
know. There is no map.


**Baring All**
**Author: Charlotte Kingston**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

I started taking my clothes off for money when I was eighteen. In my first year of college at Cambridge, I was trying on some personality traits, throwing off others, always to make an impression. I’d march off to sessions with borrowed bathrobes, cheerfully passing friends and letting them know where I was going. I was proud of this new hobby and all that it entailed: my body, my confidence, my difference. From the earliest days to what is now my fifth year of modeling, my frequent nudity hasn’t ceased to be a talking point for others. 

In England, where I’m from, people call it ‘life modeling,’ but as a graduate student here at Yale, I’ve discovered that, in the U.S., this term doesn’t carry. Instead, I’ve learned either to grapple with the ambiguous ‘art’ or ‘figure’ model used here, or embrace more loaded terminology. It was a real surprise when a fellow Yale student, not getting my drift, exclaimed, “Oh! You do nude modeling.” To me, nude modeling meant pornography. Yet I reminded myself of the words of the brilliant twentieth-century art historian, writer and broadcaster Kenneth Clark, whose book, The Nude: A Study in Ideal Form, I read in my first term at Cambridge. His bold opening makes this claim: “The word ‘nude’...carries, in educated usage, no uncomfortable overtone. The vague image it projects into the mind is not of a huddled and defenceless body, but of a balanced, prosperous and confident body.” 

Clark, however, was concerned with the artistic depiction of human nudity, the alabaster statues and the Raphaels. But when I’m on that pedestal, I may be “nude” to everyone drawing me, but I’m “naked” to myself.

The first time I modled was a nightmare scenario right out of a Freud reader. As a musician, I had brought along my violin (which I can play) and a borrowed cello (which I cannot). The art class met in Cambridge University’s engineering department, which, as an English student, I’d had no cause to visit before. The vast lecture hall was dark except for two ferocious spotlights. What was a lecturer’s desk by day had been turned for this evening class into my platform. It was far higher than I had been expecting, raised for the display of scientific utensils. But, mustering my courage, I unpacked my instruments, and slipped off to a restroom to undress. I returned in a long scarf wrapped around me—an arrangement that unfortunately did not allow me the casual dropping of a robe from my shoulders. I clambered onto the high platform and paused, feeling my knees lock and my pelvis tighten. The lights were bright and the auditorium cavernous and dark. I could see no one. I felt suddenly, shockingly, undressed, hyper-aware of my nipples, my underarms, my vagina. I could hear the artists’ preparations—paper reams unrolled, leads sharpened—even if I could only catch the luminescent outline of their backlit heads. The soles of my feet were alert to the surface of the bench as I picked up the violin at my feet and began to play.

The music helped. It gave me something to focus on and allowed me to lose track of time. Even so, I never forget that I’m naked and, unsurprisingly, it is those most secret parts of my body that I think about most. 

But in my experience the artist’s model, is protected by her naked state and the depersonalization of the drawing process. My modeling does have a sexual charge, but it’s mostly inside my own head. The class members will not often know your first name and will never know your last. That kind of identity is superfluous to them. It is rare for a model to be addressed by a member of the class; you can converse afterward, if you like, but invariably you begin the dialogue. At times I have asked for a break just to speak, to have my voice breach the silence of the studio. I have witnessed the class’ attendant shock. When I am naked in this way, no one expects me to have a voice or a personhood; stripped of those qualities, I feel my sex appeal is radically diminished. 

Usually I don’t talk. Usually, I stay still. It’s harder work than it looks. Staying still is, paradoxically, a physical activity that involves sweating, muscle fatigue, and a raised heartbeat for the majority of the session. We begin with standing poses, maybe three or four, sometimes with a longer one at the end. Don’t point your toes, don’t lift your hands above your heart for two sequential poses, remember to change the weight from one side of the body to the other between poses. Then we switch to a seated pose, and it’s a relief to get onto the floor. I try to remember the poses I’ve seen other models do, or run through paintings of nudes in my head. Often I spend much of each pose working out the next one. Which limbs do I want to preserve or rest, and which can take the strain? And you know if you’ve made a wrong choice immediately, but it’s usually just a touch too late to change. So your muscles twitch involuntarily. Your inner joints feel physically large, made of flesh and metal, capable of piercing pain. You spend time sucking the pain out of one limb and into another, mentally, imagining the tendons relaxing though they don’t move. You try to ground yourself in your buttocks when your wrist is giving out. You try to stop your trembling thigh by imagining a pole thrust into the floor from your heel downward, for stability. 

Life modeling forces me to see my nakedness in a new way. Countless times I have stood or sat, conscious of my own heaviness, my physical mass, and how it seems to root itself to the platform, only to be surprised by the ephemerality of the images scattered across the floor of the studio afterwards. In these images I am small, airy, smudged. I am barely there. Other experiences are more intimate. During one session with a group of high school students, I arranged myself on my side with my knees drawn up to my chest, one slightly higher than the other. I slowly became aware that a girl had positioned herself directly facing my pudendum, now revealed at an angle that I had certainly never seen with my own eyes. Ferociously aware of the underside of my vagina, I was initially embarrassed, then curious to see what kind of drawing she would produce, and then not a little impressed by her audacity. And though the point of view was lewd—at best Egon Schiele, at worst hard-core porn—the image she drew, whilst remaining vulva-like, was powerful, abstract, unusual. In drawing what was, to me, the most private, vulnerable part of myself, she carried it outside of that realm and gave it an aesthetic. The power of transformation belonged to her.  

As the model, you willingly submit to the most intense gaze in human society: the artist’s. It is easy—too easy, really—to imagine the paintbrush, charcoal, inkbrush, or pencil tracing your outlines as a hand upon those curves. I like to watch my artists (at least, those I can see) and watch what they do when they come to my erogenous zones. Some are stoics, others flinchers. I find it amazingly erotic to be the subject of so much attention—worship, even. As the drawers mill around searching for new materials, sometimes they set things down by my feet, and I am met with a string of people rummaging for charcoal, leaving their dirty deposits on the bench as offerings. 

But for the most part, they see right through me—it is apparent in their concentration. For them, I fluctuate between existing as a naked person and a series of shapes, contours, and shadows. It depends on what they are looking for that day and on how I am lit or presented. When the break comes, the atmosphere snaps, and I am no longer the center of attention. Tired of looking at me, their object, the artists step back to look at their easels, and examine their own hands.




**Title: Critical Angle**
**Author: Adele Jackson-Yale Women’s Soccer Team**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he Beautiful Game. The 
game said to bring the whole 
world together. I watched 
this summer’s World Cup in Paris, 
France; I have never seen much 
fervent passion, pride and celebration 
surrounding the game of soccer. 
There, banners and flags waved from 
terraces; thousands sat in front of 
JumboTrons; wine glasses and beer 
mugs clinked after victories. There 
were hurrahs, yipees, and profanities. 
Sometimes, there were riots in the 
streets. Before the kickoff, bets 
were high on Brazil, Spain, and the 
Netherlands. Nevertheless, folks from 
across the world wore the flags, shirts, 
and jerseys of their home country—
and could proudly tell you their own 
team would win. Americans, however, 
were quieter about their allegiance. 
Bold as our country’s reputation may 
be, we aren’t quick to proclaim soccer-
supremacy.  We have yet to win a 
World Cup. The fact of the matter is, 
in the soccer world, America does not 
get much respect even from its own 
citizens.  When it comes to baseball, 
we’ve stepped up to the plate. At 
basketball, we’ve made a slam-dunk. 
For football, we need no Hail Mary. 
Soccer, however, is a whole different 
ballgame.  

Some Europeans say our weakness 
lies in the way we train our players. 
In Europe, kids are sent to rigorous 
soccer training schools in hopes of 
someday scoring in a professional club 
contract. Often, they push education 
aside. There, passion for the game 
is inseparable from a drive to win. 
In America, where 
professional 
soccer 
takes a back seat to 
other 
sports, 
the 
primary stage for the 
sport’s higher levels 
are on college fields. 
There, players often 
prioritize school over 
sports, especially at 
rigorous schools like 
Yale. But the teams’ 
passion for the game 
runs strong regardless 
of the score. 

I 
am 
a 
sophomore on Yale 
Women’s 
Soccer 
team, and I’ve witnessed our season—
the growth and the disappointments. 
Our competitive line-up proved 
difficult, stacked with nationally 
ranked teams: Duke, Boston College, 
Illinois, UConn. It was a tough road 
to travel as we faced many losses. 
While an outsider might use more 
colorful adjectives to sprinkle salt 
on our turf burns, many of these 
games were close (1-0, 2-0). Against 
such great competition we began to 
develop our style of play.  

Our coach, Rudy Meredith, 
provides his wisdom. “Number 1: 
We want to play against the best. 
Number 2: This way we have a 
better understanding of where we 
are. Maybe we scheduled too many 
tough games in a row, but it is the 
best feeling in world when you can 
get such an upset,” he says of facing 
difficult opponents. 

The odds are against us. Since Yale 
holds high academic standards, and it 
doesn’t offer athletic scholarships as 
many of its counterparts do, we’re 
at a disadvantage in recruitment. 
“Stanford has the best model,” Rudy 
explains.  “They have good academics 
and scholarships and they are top 
five in the country. And they went 
to the Final Four last year too. If we 
had scholarships we could be just 
like them.” The academic standard 
for Yale’s prospective recruits is 
only increasing. “It’s tough. You 
are narrowing the pool again to get 
the best athlete. But we are at Yale 
University,” he continues. 

For an Ivy League school, 
beating the odds takes a lot of work, 
determination, and dedication.  In 
2004, Princeton made it to the Final 
Four. And I am sure no one on our 
team can forget 2005 (since there 
is not a week where Coach does 
not bring it up); that year, Yale was 
ranked 13th in the nation with a win 
against Duke under its belt. Eleni 
Benson, the captain at the time, 
graduated with the best GPA on the 
team and went off to play with the 
Greek national team in the women’s 
World Cup. During her Yale Career, 
she helped lead YWS to win the Ivy 
League Championships and enter the 
NCAA tournament. 

I am happy to say that I was a 
part of the shake-up of 2010. In our 
season opener we faced Penn State, 
then 16th in the nation. Shaking with 
anxiety, we had no idea what to expect 
from our preseason preparation—and 
Penn State strolled in unfazed, ready 
to crush an Ivy. But 
when the whistle blew, 
I felt a raw energy in 
the air, and my chest 
burned 
with 
nerves 
and excitement. The 
exhilaration rose when 
we realized we were 
dominating the head-
balls, dribbling through 
defenders, and tackling 
dangerous plays. On 
the bench, we stood 
up chanting “Let’s go 
Blue!” with zeal.  In 
the game’s last half 
hour, 
Becky 
Brown 
’11 slotted one in on a 
breakaway, and all the Bulldogs on 
the sideline jumped up, screaming, 
hugging, and laughing. The game 
ended: 1-0, Yale. We all took scissors 
to the Yale Daily News article the next 
day to post that large picture of the 
team running to embrace Becky on 
our Walls: Elis pulled off the upset of 
Nittany Lions, earning the program’s 
first win against a Big Ten team in 
school history.

From that tremendous high, 
we stumbled through the next few 
games, but every day, we kept Penn 
State in the back of our minds, never 
forgetting what we knew we could 


“There are athletes that choose not to come to Yale because it’s too much  
academically, and they’d rather go somewhere they can coast through their 
four years while focusing on sports. It’s often overlooked, but it’s a rare breed 
that is willing to compete academically with non-athletes,”



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
38
39
The New Journal
WInter 2010-2011
accomplish. We longed for the Ivy 
League ring—the mark of an athletic 
championship win amongst eight 
schools known for their academics. 
“Student-athletes that come here 
don’t make the decision to come to 
Yale lightly,” says teammate Miyuki 
Hino ‘12. “There are athletes that 
choose not to come to Yale because 
it’s too much academically, and they’d 
rather go somewhere they can coast 
through their four years while focusing 
on sports. It’s often overlooked, but it’s 
a rare breed that is willing to compete 
academically with non-athletes,” she 
explains. 


On YWS, we came to Yale 
with a drive for academics and thrive 
on soccer’s fast-paced competition. 
For this reason, Rudy says, “We train 
4-5 times a day like a professional team 
anywhere in the world. Obviously 
they have class everyday but people are 
working hard to achieve their goals. I 
am preparing kids to be productive. 
The Yale name can only take you so 
far if you are not productive.” 
Under the pressure of Division 
I competition, we learn to push 
ourselves 
through 
game-time, 
midterms and papers. We want to win 
against the other Ivies--Brown, Penn, 
Cornell, 
Columbia, 
Dartmouth, 
Harvard. Even Princeton matters. 
When the season moved to 
Ivy-League play, however, we were 
disappointed by loss after loss. On 
occasion we would pull a win, but 
things would never quite work when it 
mattered. Finishing fifth in the league 
did not reflect our hard work or our 
capabilities. Win or lose, we are very 
grateful for everything YWS has given 
us. “After playing for four years, I’ve 
learned that the important things are 
not having the most championships, 
but maintaining a constant love for 
the game surrounded by a family (the 
team),” explains Natalie Romine ‘11. 
Yale Women’s Soccer is about the 
team. For athletes and non-athletes 
alike, the best times in college are 
not those spent in lecture halls or 
the bent over textbooks—our social 
interactions are most important. 
Be it on the field, on the stage or in 
the newsroom, challenges bring us 
together.   On YWS, we bond over high 
competition in soccer and school. Says 
teammate Emma Mullo ‘12, “Playing 
three seasons, I am blessed to say that I 
got exactly what I was looking for—an 
extremely rigorous academic setting 
and immensely competitive athletic 
world. I could not ask for more out of 
my experience.  I love my YWS family 
here. I have learned more from being 
part of this team than anything I could 
have learned in books,” she shares. 
Senior day—for reasons perhaps 
more social than athletic—was the 
pinnacle of our season.  Senior Day 
is the last home game of the season—
it’s always marked by speeches and 
celebration for our oldest players. Our 
game was scheduled after the men’s 
game, but theirs went into overtime, 
and we had to wait. The women’s 
team sat in the locker room as Rudy 
gave the pre-game talk. Suddenly, 
Rudy said “I have a surprise for you 
guys.” We looked at each other and 
shuffled our cleats in anticipation. 
The lights dimmed and a projector lit 
up the white board. Rudy sat down in 
a chair at the front and pulled out a 
saxophone. He shifted his chair a little 
and drew deep breaths. “All right, I’m 
a little nervous,” he told us. “Whew.” 
He lifted his instrument to his lips 
and began to play “My Heart Will Go 
On.” A slideshow started. Pictures of 
the seniors faded in and out as Rudy’s 
music brought us to tears. 


When the slideshow finished, 
Rudy played Stevie Wonder’s “I Wish” 
with CD accompaniment, and we 
all danced.  It was like a live band 
was right there just for us— we just 
hopped, skipped, and boogied with 
not a care in the world. I sweat with 
these girls everyday—it felt good to 
let loose in celebration. We rode the 
high enthusiasm from the dance party 
into the game versus Columbia. We 
celebrated our first goal with a group 
dance on the field. The energy we’d 
had in the Penn game was back. We 
beat Columbia, 2-0. And it wasn’t the 
best part of the day. 
TNJ
Adele Jackson-Gibson is a 
sophomore in Calhoun College.



**Title: The Critic**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**

Profile
B
efore I met David Koskoff 
’61 LAW ’64 and his wife 
Charlotte Koskoff, I sat 
behind them during an undergraduate 
performance of Tom Stoppard’s 
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead 
this October. Mr. Koskoff was the 
one leaning over and explaining a joke 
to his wife, loud enough that I could 
hear, too. I had seen the pair in many 
Yale audiences, but they were no one’s 
parents or professors that I knew. 
Curious, I found them after the play, 
and Mr. Koskoff confirmed proudly 
that he and his wife see between 
one and three undergraduate shows 
every weekend. Eager to share his 
thoughts on these shows, he invited 
me to dinner at their apartment 
on York Street in New Haven.
Though 
the 
Koskoffs’ 
interest is in Yale theater, I’ve never 
appeared on a Yale stage, so when 
I e-mailed, hoping to establish my 
credentials, I dropped the name of 
the play I was directing that opened 
in December. “We are definitely 
looking forward to your  show,” 
Mr. Koskoff wrote back cordially. 
“Though I don’t think we have 
prior familiarity with your work…”


T
he Koskoffs spend only weekends 
     at their York Street apartment, 
where they’ve lived since September 
2009. They spend the rest of the 
week in in Plainville, Conn., where 
Mr. Koskoff recently retired from 
his law firm. Also a writer, he has 
published three nonfiction books. 
One, Joseph P. Kennedy: A Life 
and Times (1974), made the front 
page of the New York Times Book 
Review. He still has the clip. He is 
currently at work on a biography 
An evening of scenes with scenes from the life of David Koskoff ’61 LAW ’64, Yale un-
dergraduate theater’s biggest fan.
When it comes to baseball, we’ve stepped up to the plate. At basketball,
we’ve got a slam-dunk. For football, we need no Hail Mary. 
Soccer, however, is a whole different ballgame.



**Title: The Koskoffs' Yale**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
40
41
The New Journal
WInter 2010-2011
occasionally sits in on movie 
screenings for introductory film 
courses, but comedy shows, 
he complained, are too late at 
night. “We still haven’t made 
the 
Masters’ Teas,” 
said 
his 
wife, “and I want to do that.” 
They tried renting an 
apartment in New York, Mr. 
Koskoff explained, then settled 
instead for this pied-à-terre in New 
Haven precisely because it offers 
everything the big city does—
except here, he crowed, they can 
walk everywhere. The Koskoffs 
used to go to the Edinburgh 
Festival Fringe each year, but 
now that they’re in New Haven, 
“every weekend is the Edinburgh 
Fringe!” Mr. Koskoff and his wife 
can readily recall dozens of plays 
they’ve seen; a favorite, Amadeus, 
“was such a wonderful production 
that they could have lifted it up 
and taken it straight to Broadway.” 
“We’ve 
seen 
such 
wonderful things,” cooed Mrs. 
Koskoff, “Only every fourth show, 
of Tom Dodd, the former U.S. 
Senator 
from 
Connecticut. 
Mrs. Koskoff, also a lawyer, 
teaches at Central Connecticut 
State University, serves on the 
Plainville Board of Education, 
and has run for U.S. Congress 
twice. They have no children, 
and 
shouting 
through 
house, they call each other “love.”


As 
Mr. 
Koskoff 
tells 
the story, he and his wife were 
just “casual theater consumers” 
until a 1989 production of Sweeney 
Todd converted the pair to self-
described “Sondheads,” traveling 
cross-country to see productions 
of Stephen Sondheim’s work in 
Chicago and San Francisco. By 1998, 
they were meeting a devoted group 
of fellow Sondheads for dinner 
before a production of Sondheim’s 
Follies in New Jersey. Today, Mr. 
bemoans 
Sondheim’s 
popularity, saying, “the public has 
snatched him away from us,” but he 
still dates his and his wife’s passion 
for theatergoing to this period. 
Now, according to Mr. 
Koskoff, “living on York Street, at 
the edge of the Yale bubble, is the 
very best place for a theater buff 
to be.” He and his wife prefer the 
intimacy of Yale’s undergraduate 
theater to professional plays at 
the Yale Repertory Theatre or 
the Long Wharf Theatre in New 
Haven. In every student show, he 
says, they find at least one actor’s 
performance 
worthwhile—
sometimes 
breathtaking. 
Mr. Koskoff rattled off a list 
of names of stars to watch.


However, before I arrived 
at their apartment for dinner, I 
knew none of this. I knew only that 
the couple I’d seen were faithful 
followers of Yale’s undergraduate 
theater—a scene often considered 
insular. Undergraduate theatergoers 
 “Living on York 
Street, at the 
edge of the Yale 
bubble, is the 
very best place 
for a theater buff 
to be,” says Mr. 
Koskoff.

tend to be theater people themselves, 
and while some plays generate 
considerable excitement within their 
community, that buzz rarely spreads 
across campus. True audience 
members—people who see plays 
not out of obligation to friends, 
but to be entertained—are rare, too.


 “O
h, you didn’t have to bring 
         flowers!” Mr. Koskoff shouted, 
as he opened the door to his 
apartment that night. But his 
wife would love them, he added. 
“Would you like a glass of bad 
white wine?” It’s truly awful, he 
said, but Mr. Koskoff used to own 
a bar, and when it closed, he was 
stuck with this. “I inherited it,” he 
said, sweeping me into a side 
room he called his study, past 
a spacious living room with a 
crowded bookcase,  a massive 
potted rosemary plant, and coffee 
tables topped with David Sedaris 
books—and then Mr. Koskoff cut 
to the chase. From his massive 
desk chair, wine glass in hand, he 
looked me in the eye and said:
“I largely select shows 
based on people that I know, and 
here’s a question for you. In Dead 
Man’s Cell Phone, you have Allison 
Collins [’11]—who is the best 
Charlotte and David Koskoff in their York 
Street apartment.

among her crop—and Hunter Wolk 
[’12]—and Jeremy Lloyd [’12]—
how is it that someone like you, 
who doesn’t have many credits to 
your name, got such good people?” 
I started to squirm and 
stammer out some answers: they’re 
my friends, it’s a fun play. But 
from the way he talked about Yale 
undergraduate theater, I knew 
Mr. Koskoff wouldn’t be so easily 
convinced of my authority. When 
his wife arrived, his monologue 
turned to the play they saw last 
weekend, in the theater in the 
basement of Morse College.


	
“You 
know,” 
Mr. Koskoff, “I’d never seen 
Will Smith [’12] before last 
weekend 
in 
Julius 
Caesar.” 
	
“No,” 
called 
wife from the kitchen, “we’ve 
seen him in lots of things.”


The Koskoffs see plays 
every weekend with the help of 
the website of the Yale Drama 
Coalition, which offers showtimes 
and tickets for all undergraduate 
performances. “I told two or three 
people about it,” said Koskoff of 
the site, “and then thought, no, 
no, if all the AARP people come, 
they’ll have to close the shows 
except to Yale and Yale family. 
So we don’t talk much about it, 
but we bring people—once in a 
while.” They also show guests a 
DVD of the 2009 production of 
Cabaret directed by Kate Berman 
’11, which Mr. Koskoff said he 
obtained 
Berman’s 
mother. It’s a perennial favorite. 
“Everything about it is wonderful,” 
he said. “And Jason Perlman 
[’11] 
plays 
spymaster.”


	
“It’s like going to Yale 
without the papers,” said Mrs. 
Koskoff, who makes a habit of 
seeing undergraduate singing 
performances as well. Mr. Koskoff 
or fifth show is disappointing.”
“That’s 
not 
true,” 
interrupted Mr. Koskoff. “We’re 
often disappointed.” After all, 
his standards are quite high. 
He frequently e-mails student 
directors about their projects, 
often to complain that the 
plays they’ve chosen are too 
depressing. “For some reason, a 
lot of these Yale undergrads like 
these real downers,” he puzzled. 
“Did you see the play with 
Cooper Lewis [’11] a month ago? 
A virtuoso performance,” he said 
of Lewis—but the play, Home 
Free, about an incestuous brother 
and sister, was another downer.


Recently, 
e-mailed Michael Knowles ’12 
to ask about Phantoms Go 
Down, a play by Ariel Sheperd-
Oppenheim ’10, which Knowles 
directed. “What’s the plot line of 
Phantoms?” Mr. Koskoff wrote 
simply. To Knowles’ response, 
Mr. Koskoff wrote: “I am a great 
admirer of Julie Shain’s [’13] and 
also of Jeremy Lloyd [’12], but 
my wife and I are still depressed 
from  Cornered  and  Home Free, 
and as your show sounds like a 
real downer, I’ll probably pass 
on it.” Mr. Koskoff explained that 
he finds it easy to contact Yale 
students because of our formulaic 
e-mail 
addresses. 
Last 
year, 
he e-mailed Elizabeth Sutton-
Stone ’10, who was directing 
a production of Measure for 
Measure, to demand a reason to 
see yet another Shakespeare play.


Knowles’ play was one 
of the shows Mr. Koskoff turned 
down the night I had dinner 
with him. Instead, he chose War 
in Times of Love, a play directed 
by Danielle Tomson ’12, saying 
he always enjoys actors Peter 
Kaufman ’12 and Timmia Feldman 


**Title: Endnote**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
42
43
The New Journal
WInter 2010-2011
   ENDNOTE
’12, “that little girl with the same 
name as you.” As Mrs. Koskoff 
readied herself for the Yale-
Princeton Glee Club concert, Mr. 
Koskoff and I left to get good seats.

“W
hen I go to Sudler shows, 
                                     it’s like crashing a wonderful 
party,” confided Mr. Koskoff, as 
we walked down York Street. We 
entered Morse College, passing 
three girls in costume, and Mr. 
Koskoff shouted, “Are you in the 
play?” He found two middle-
aged women outside the theater 
and approached them, asking: 
“Got someone in the show?” In 
fact, Mr. Koskoff was delighted 
to learn, one was the mother of 
the director, Danielle Tomson ’12. 
He complimented The History 
Boys, the last play Tomson 
directed, gushing: “It was the 
high point of last year’s theater!” 
I excused myself for a 
moment and returned to find Mr. 
Koskoff rubbing elbows with 
another adult couple—one actor’s 
parents, he had discovered. We were 
still five minutes early, and the doors 
hadn’t opened. “The students always 
get here late,” said Mr. Koskoff, 
“but I always get there right on time, 
so they don’t give my seat away.” 
(Normally, house managers of 
Yale shows don’t close the theater’s 
doors until 10 or 15 minutes 
after the play’s scheduled start.)

As 
Mr. 
Koskoff 
had 
learned from the Yale Drama 
Coalition site, this was the North 
American premiere of a Kosovar 
playwright’s work—and even by 
Yale standards, the play, billed as a 
comedy, was weird. Some scenes 
occurred with the lights completely 
off. An actor dressed as a bride ran 
up an aisle screaming; later, she 
married a snake-man. There was 
nudity, murder, waxing of hair. 
Always, a television flickered in the 
background, showing singers, war 
footage, burning film. It was a typical 
example of the undergraduate 
theater that Mr. Koskoff called 
“too cutting-edge” for his tastes. 
At one point, an actor 
addressed the audience, and 
coming close to where we 
were sitting, she focused on 
Mr. Koskoff. I snuck a glance at 
his face. While another watcher 
might 
have 
looked 
away 
uncomfortably, Mr. Koskoff was 
holding her gaze contentedly—
unfazed. He had seen it all before.

A
s the play ended, Mr. Koskoff 
           turned to me. “I don’t know 
where they get off calling it a 
comedy,” he said. A true critic, 
Mr. Koskoff respects the efforts 
of these undergraduates enough 
to expect professionalism, while 
parents and friends will simply 
smile 
unconditionally 
and 
congratulate the cast. Audience 
members with an understanding 
and appreciation as acute as Mr. 
Koskoff’s are unusual at these 
plays. As he and I stood to go, the 
producer asked the audience to 
recycle our programs, returning 
them to a bin for use the next night. 
In spite of his critique, 
Mr. Koskoff ignored the producer’s 
request. When we left, he was 
still holding his program. I asked 
if he would keep it. “I always 
keep them,” he said, and we 
walked out of the Morse College 
basement, programs in hand.
TNJ
Jacque Feldman is a junior 
in Davenport College and 
a managing editor for The 
New Journal.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Sanjena Sathian**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

--- Page 23 ---

44
Visit us online at
www.thenewjournalatyale.com.

