Publication date: December 1, 1982
Volume: 15
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Matthew Bartholomew
- Business Manager: Barbara Burrell
- Production Manager: Hilary Callahan
- Photography Editor: Jeff Strong
- Associate Editors: Geoff Hayward, Paul Hofheinz, Jim Lowe, Morris Panner, W. Hampton Sides, Lelia Wardwell
- Associate Production Manager: Alex Savich
- Staff: Jan Kamensky, Robert Moore, Marilynn Sager, Christianna Williams


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Letters
- Comment - Should Yale have a white collar union? by Radley Daly and John Wilhelm
- NewsJournal - Brewster's new calling, The reel world, Blasting off
- Major stories - An underworld around us by Geoff Hayward, SPECIAL REPORT: A look at the residential college system
- What does the future hold? by Jim Lowe
- What's the master to do? by Katherine Scobey
- Finding out the fellows by Andi Vayda
- Profile - Anthony Appiah: God's natural aristocrat by Kathleen Cleaver
- Theatre - The late-night acrobats by Laura Pappano
- Research - Discovering nothing by Tony Reese


**Title: Letters**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Comment: Should Yale have a white collar union?**
**Author: Radley Daly and John Wilhelm**
**Page number(s): 6**

Should Yale have a white collar union? 
by Radley Daly 
john Wilhelm, coordiruztor of the organizing 
and John Wilhelm 
campaign .for Local 34, the propos«./ white-col/or 
union, and Radley Daly, Director of Administrative 
Services at Yale clebau the merits of a white-coll,ar 
union for the University.


**Title: NewsJournal**
**Page number(s): 10**

Brewster's new calling 
Yale's for:rner:, presiclent takes his talents to the world of 
professional basketball. 

The reel world 
Actress Jennifer Beals, Calhoun '86, turns from the 
ivory tower to the silver screen. 

Blasting off 
The Blues Astronauts clecicle to make a career of it.


**Title: Major stories: An underworld around us**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 12**

Enclos«.. in our gothic world, we are surrouncled by 
stone figures which make us unwitting victims of their 
/osting commentary. 

SPECIAL REPORT: 
A look at the residential college system


**Title: What does the future hold?**
**Author: Jim Lowe**
**Page number(s): 20**

A committee examines the future of the resiclential 
colleges as part of the 50th anniversary of the system.


**Title: What's the master to do?**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 24**

Grappling with the role of the master in the 
resiclentwl colleges.


**Title: Finding out the fellows**
**Author: Andi Vayda**
**Page number(s): 26**

Stuclents and facu/Jy look at ways to involve the 
felLows in the resiclentwl colleges.


**Title: Profile: Anthony Appiah: God's natural aristocrat**
**Author: Kathleen Cleaver**
**Page number(s): 30**

A descenclent of Asante kings ar.d Bn"tish lords, 
Yale~ 
DUS of Afro-American Studies reflects an elegant 
fusion of African and English culture.


**Title: Theatre: The late-night acrobats**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 34**

The show behind the shows; an allnighter with 
the techies.


**Title: Research: Discovering nothing**
**Author: Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 38**

A Yale researcher stumbles upon a hole thru thousand 
times the size of the Milky Way.



**Letters: Russo revisited**
**Author: Kathryn Hemker**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editor: 
Since Thomas McQuillen betrayed a 
certain preoccupation with medieval 
metaphor in his letter ("Russo out of 
touch," TN], October 15, 1982), I will 
respond to him in terms he can unders-
tand: Mr. McQuillen, lay off the grog! 
As co-author of the Class Day Ad-
dress, I found it difficult to locate the 
passages in the speech which caused 
McQuillen such obvious distress. 
(Perhaps I can attribute my perplexity 
to the fact that McQuillen neglected to 
cite specific passages of the speech in 
his reply.) McQuillen accuses John 
Russo (I was curiously exonerated in 
his analysis.) of "fabricating large cor-
porate dragons" and "economic 
demons" simply because he wanted 
"something to slay." Either McQuillen 
holds that the "demons" are fabricated, 
in which case he must assume corpora-
tions to be inherently moral organiza-
tions; or else he believes that the cor-
porations themselves are fabricated, in 
which case he is a fool. 

McQuillen supposes that "it 
is 
always easier to attack something no 
one can see, something no one knows 
about; no one can argue with you." It 
seems that he has underestimated his 
audience's powers of observation. I can 
see corporations; the last few people I 
asked said that they could, too. But I 
should point out that John and I did 
not "attack" corporations; we merely 
suggested that graduating seniors 
should be cognizant of corporate in-
fluence and should exert pressure, 
whether internally or , externally, on 
such institutions to act with ethical 
responsibility. 

I suspect that McQuillen neglected 
to (re)read our speech when he wrote his 
response, and that he had a few of his 
own dragons to slay. If so, I am 
justified in strongly protesting his 
assertion that "Russo is insincere." 
Sincerity, 
Mr. McQuillen, 
no 
harder to see than the "corporate 
demons" that you insist are figments of 
our imagination. You have only to 
look. 
Kathryn Hemker 
Jonathan Edwards, 1984 
4 The New Journal/December 1, 1982


**Letters: vee and JCSC: student leaders respond**
**Author: Betsy Goldmuntz**

Morris Fanner's article ("Student 
government: critique and reform," 
TNJ, October 15, 1982), raises several 
issues that deserve attention. These in-
clude the formalization of residential 
college councils, the coordination of 
the latter with the Yale College Coun-
cil (YCC) and the coordination of the 
YCC and the Joint Committee of 
Social Chairpersons (JCSC). 

As 
chairperson of the Ezra Stiles College 
Council, I witnessed the benefits of 
allowing 
a 
formal, 
elective 
body 
distribute funds among various college 
activities. This not only encourages 
people to buy SAC cards when they see 
that many activities are funded, but it 
also ensures that the Social Committee 
will be responsible to a consistent, 
elected group of students. 

Having listened to many YCC 
reports and the YCC representatives' 
pleas for student input, I would agree 
that some coordination between the 
college councils and the YCC would 
lend support to that ever-criticized 
organization. Moreover, it is worth 
noting that last year's Ezra Stiles 
Council never even mentioned JCSC 
activities, and that lately many 
students have expressed their desire to 
hold back funds from the JCSC while 
still contributing to the residential col-
lege SAC funds. 

While Fanner's proposal does not 
necessarily provide the best answer to 
these problems, it finally brings the 
question of formalization and coor-
dination of student government to the 
foreground. 
Betsy Goldmuntz 
Former ,Ezra Stiles Council 
Chairperson


**Author: David Downing**

"Money talks," or so Morris Panner 
assumes in his article ("Student Govern-
ment: critique and reform" TNJ, Oct. 
15, 1982). If the Yale College Council 
(YCC) were to be given control of the 
funds currently administered by the 
Joint Council of Social Chairpersons 
(JCSC), both organizations would 
supposedly gain the support and con-
fidence of the student body. Through 
an elaborate reorganization of dollars 
and representatives from the YCC, the 
JCSC and the twelve residential col-
lege councils, a newfound, popular in-
terest in student governance would be 
sparked, and a united student voice 
would emerge. 

What this voice would say is still not 
clear to me. Would it announce each 
week's SAC events, or would it plea for 
student input on matters of academic 
and administrative policy? What I 
suspect might happen is that the new 
Student Senate would not produce a 
clear representative voice at all. In-
stead, it would promote a great deal of 
friction between two distinct groups of 
students (the former SAC people and 
the former YCC crowd) over the fate 
of a communal pool of money. I don't 
think it is possible to form a productive 
student committee which must be both 
a political voice and a social activities 
planner. Discussion about the long-
term implications of a foreign language 
requirement just doesn't mix with the 
planning of a happy hour. 

Panner is absolutely correct in assert-
ing that Yale really has no represen-
tative student government. Yet the 
proposed marriage of the YCC with 
the JCSC (or perhaps more accurately, 
with the JCSC's money) will not 
guarantee the campus wide support 
which the YCC needs in order to be 
able to influence the Yale administra-
tion. It is critical that the YCC become 
recognized 
as a 
spokesman for 
students' interests. One way to gain 
that recognition is by actively seeking 
out student opinion on specific issues 
(via questionnaires, telephone surveys, 
etc.) 
and 
then presenting them 
forcefully to the administration. Cer-
tainly the YCC can not obtain the 
power and influence which it needs 
simply by playing ogre over the coffer 
for students' social activities. 
David Downing 
YCC Representative 1980-81 
Branford 1984


**Comment: Should Yale have a white-collar union?**
**Author:  Radley Daly & John Wilhelm**
**Page number(s): 6**

Should Yale have a white-collar union? 
Two thousand six hundred clerical and 
technical employees may have to decide soon. 
Local 34, the union trying to organize the 
workers, claims that it will petition the Na-
tional Labor Relations Board (NLRB) to 
hold an election soon. 
Organizers 
say they already have the signatures of the 30 
percent of the workers required by the NLRB 
to petition for an election, but they are 
waiting for a "substantial majority" of the 
workers to sign before filing a petition. 
If the clerical and technical employees form 
a union, it could wield enormous power 
because of the central position these workers 
occupy in the University. A white-collar 
union could make substantial changes in 
working conditions and significantly alter the 
status quo at Yale. 

Various groups have tried to organize the 
white-collar workers over the past 15 years 
("In search of a white collar union," TNJ, 
October 24, 1981). They have waged 
vigorous campaigns since the early 1960's, 
although the workers have voted on two occa-
sions against forming a union. 

Since November 1980, Local 35, Federa-
tion of University employees, AFL-CIO, 
Yale's dining hall and maintenance workers 
union, has assisted the clerical and technical 
workers in trying to organize a "sister union" 
to be known as Local 34, while the Universi-
ty has waged its own campaign to discourage 
the workers from forming a union. 

The New Journal asked the rep-
resentatives of the University and the Union 
to outline their positions on this issue for the 
Yale community. Radley Daly '49, Director 
of Administrative Services for Yale, summed 
up the University's argument, and John 
Wilhelm, '67, coordinator of the organizing 
campaign for Local 34, gave the union's 
perspective. 

University: 
"Voluntary 
cooperation and 
mutual respect" 
Radley Daly
It is the deeply held conviction of Yale's 
administration that we must strive to 
manage this institution in such a way 
that our clerical and technical 
employees will enjoy and be challenged 
by their jobs and will feel fairly treated 
and justly compensated. We believe 
that the majority of the Yale staff 
shares our concern that Yale will 
become not a better place, but a worse 
place to work if a third party is paid to 
come on the campus and bring about 
the 
adversarial atmosphere that 
unionization inevitably creates. 

Who are the clerical and technical 
staff members? They are the more 
than 2,500 women and men whose jobs 
are in offices and laboratories, in 
libraries and galleries, and in service 
units such as the Health Center and 
the Telephone Switchboard Room. 
They perform secretarial and book-
keeping tasks; they carry out research 
experiments; they help to buy books 
and to return them to library shelves; 
they print Yale's stationery; they 
schedule classes; they run computers. 
Yale could not carry on without them. 

Those who are employed full time 
(most are) typically work 37 1/2 hours 
per week. Their salaries range from 
$8,275 to well over $20,000. One in 
three has worked on the campus for 
more than five years. They have 
always been especially supportive of 
students and faculty, and during those 
occasional times when Yale has had 
tough sledding, they have pitched in 
with the extra effort needed to keep the 
place going. 

Not only is there variety in their 
jobs, but there is variety in the pur-
poses for which clerical and technical 
staffs serve Yale and in the size of the 
departments in which they work. One 
has only to look at the centerfold of 
any issue of the Weekly Bulletin & Calendar to appreciate the wide range of ac-
tivities at Yale. On any given day 
literally hundreds of different things 
are going on in hundreds of University 
buildings. Some of the larger depart-



**Yale's Clerical and Technical Employees**
**Author: Radley Daly**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ments employ scores of staff members 
whose efforts must be coordinated. At 
the same time, scattered among small 
laboratories and offices are individuals 
whose 
sometimes esoteric projects 
sweep over an incredible variety of in-
tellectual 
and scientific pursuits. 

Diversity, in an atmosphere of free-
dom to pursue the truth, is the essence 
of a great research campus. Yale 
thrives on new programs, special ar-
rangements, unique talents and chance 
discoveries. 

We know that at other universities 
where the staff has succumbed to 
unionization, the netting which holds 
together this conglomeration of ac-
tivities has drawn tight. The critical 
slip-knots in the fabric of the institu-
tion which gives it flexibility to grow, 
change and experiment, have hard-
ened into gnarls. 

Work rules, 
disciplinary proceedings, and time 
clocks have replaced the easy come and 
go. Friendliness has congealed to for-
mality, and mutual interests have 
transmuted to contesting ones. 

The picture just painted is, perhaps, 
overdone. Not every office or labor-
a~ory at Yale is ma.naged with a benign 
hand. And surely, some unions avoid 
the excesses of the notorious. Never-
theless, the whole point of a union is to 
assemble power and to exercise it. In 
contrast, universities simply are not 
put together to match muscle with 
muscle. Professors aren't assembly line 
foremen. Toughness, table-thumping, 
and locked arms are inimical to 
academia. They tear a university 
apart. 

" Some sav that a _s_taff u11ion at Yale 
would be different;-n that it would be 
democratically run; that its leadership 
would be guided solely by the imerests 
of the local members. That is naive. 
The union now seeking to organize 
Yale's staff, like its three predecessors, 
IS bound by its constitution to march to 
t~e tune of the parent "international" 
With which it is affiliated. Of the 
~400,000 or more in dues, fines, initia-
tiOn fees and assessments which Yale 
me~bers would pay each year, ap-
proxtmately $125 000 would be turned 
0 
d. 
' 
ver 
trectly to the International to 
(continued page 8) 

Union: 
"[the workers] 
are less noticed 
and less 
respected than 
the students, the 
faculty and the 
administration." 
John Wilhelm 

The University community is, by its 
nature, concerned with free inquiry, 
with discussion free from pressure and 
propaganda. It is concerned about 
questions of social equity. It is con-
cerned about the importance of all 
members of the community. It is con-
cerned about freedom. It is concerned 
about the right of free association. 

Apparently, however, these sincere-
ly-held concerns and values do not ex-
tend to some members of the Yale 
community. 

Most people in the Yale community 
would be startled to learn that there are 
2,600 clerical and technical employees 
at Yale. 

These employees- overwhelmingly 
women- work in some 256 d ifferent 
job classifications. The work they do is 
critical to the Universi~y's mission. 
Carrying out research, 
handling 
money, processing paperwork, assis-
ting faculty, 
operating computers, 
making the libraries work, providing 
health care, photography, printing-
these and many other vital services rest 
on their shoulders. 

And yet they feel invisible. They are 
less noticed and less respected than the 
students, the faculty, and the ad-
ministration. They are even less no-
ticed than the much smaller group of 
about 1,000 blue-collar service and 
maintenance workers represented by 
Local 35, Federation of University 
Employees, AFL-CIO. 

There are many manifestations of 
the second-class status of clerical and 
technical employees within the Yale 

One, certainly, is- salary. The start-
ing salary in the lowest salary grade is 
$4.24 an hour. The top salary in that 
lowest grade is $5.69 an hour, with no 
system of steady progression from the 
bottom to the top of the salary range. 

Ironically, the comparable lowest 
starting rate at meagerly-endowP.d 
Quinnipiac College, a small school in 
suburban New Haven, is now $4.47, 
23 cents per hour higher than Yale! 

Those employees are members of 
Local 217, 
Hotel & Restaurant 
Et:nRloyees Union, a sister Local to the 
unions at Yale. 

The lowest-paid salary grade for 
Yale service and maintenance workers 
represented by Local 35 starts at $5.47 
an hour and progresses to $6.47 after 
one year's service. Local 35 members 
also get cost-of-living raises every three 
months. 

A senior administrative assistant in 
the clerical and technical group is 
typically found in a highly respon$ible, 
sensitive and demanding job such as 
assisting the Dean of a major Yale 
graduate school. That job is in Salary 
Grade 9, with a starting rate of $6.24 
per hour, or $12,175 per year. The 
maxim um is $9.03 per hour, or 
$17,600 per year, with no assurance 
that an employee will progress to that 
maximum. 

By comparison, a baker represented 
by Local 35 earns $9.38 an hour, or 
$19,150 a year, after one year's ser-
vice. A first cook or a carpenter earns 
$10.07 an hour, or $20,946 a year, 
after one year's service. 

A key national issue today is "com-
parable worth": the long-overdue idea 
that jobs should be paid according to 
the worth of the work performed, and 
not be paid less just because most of 
those involved are women, or more 
just because they are men. Yale would 
make an excellent laboratory for study-
ing that concept, as the comparisons 
above suggest. 

The lack of respect for clerical and 
technical employees at Yale 
is, 
however, much more deep-seated than 
the salary issue, important as that is. 

Example: Present clerical and technical 
employees are not given any pref-
erence when there is a job opening. 
(continued page 9)


**The Unionization of Yale's Staff**
**Page number(s): 8**

University · 
"The range 
of benefits ... 
is extraordinary." 
pay for that body's programs and ad-
ministration. Just as unions exist to 
wield power externally, so are they 
governed by·power internally. 

Suppose Yale's clerical and technical 
staff members do decide to form a 
union. What effect will students see? 
There is no short answer to that, but 
here again, examples drawn from 
other universities suggest what is most 
likely to touch students lives. Almost 
certainly, a union will move to restrict 
student access to campus jobs. Where 
there is now flexibility in the student 
employment picture, a union contract 
will impose boundaries. That has been 
Yale's experience with its blue collar 
union. 

If a Yale union behaves as other 
union s do, its leaders, in order to stay 
in office, will have to bargain on behalf 
of their members for an ever-increas-
ing slice of the dollar pie. If Yale does 
not grow, then someone will have to 
pay in more dollars to make a bigger 
pie, or some group activity will have to 
take a smaller slice .. There always has 
been, and there always will be, a con-
test for the University's resources. 
That contest will become livelier, to 
say the least. 

Another eflect, and perhaps the 
most unwelcome one, may come about 
because of the difficulty unions have 
always had in dealing with the concept 
o f merit. Most unionized workers (and 
all in the union nQw at Yale) who hold 
the same jobs get exactly the same pay 
after an initial probationary period. 
Merit is not reflected in pay checks. 
The least effective worker who meets 
th e minimum standards gets precisely 
the same pay as the strongest con-
tributor. Students who have dealt with 
a government office or a motor vehicles 
bureau will appreciate what happens to 
service when there are no incentives to 
try harder or to work smarter. Unions 
cannot recognize merit. Yale cannot 
ignore it. The entire campus would 
feel the conflict. 

If Yale's administration feels as 
strongly as it does about having a 
union-free staff, what has it done and 
what will it do to respond to the 
legitimate concerns of those employees 
who think they need a union to repre-
sent then1? Three primary issues must 
be addressed. 

J ob security is on everyone's mind. 
H appily Yale has a healthy record in 
this area. Our educational "product" 
continues to enjoy a strong demand 
and there is little chance that we will go 
out of business. We won't close the 
New H aven plant. We won't move to 
Sumter, South Carolina. We have 
been able in the past and we expect in 
the future to manage most staffing 
changes through natural attrition. 

Second, we must constantly see to 
the business of fair compensation-
compensation being the total of salaries 
and benefits. Up until a few.years ago 
Yale had reputation for leading the 
parade on 
benefits while 
lagging 
behind .on pay, not so much for 
employees who had been here for a few 
years, but rather in starting salaries for 
newcomers. We have made major 
strides in altering this picture. In each 
of the last four years the average salary 
increase for continuing clerical and 
technical staff members has exceeded 
10 percent. As a result of a salary scale 
improvement which will go into effect 
on December 1, Yale will have raised 
its starting salaries in 
its largest 
classifications by 60 percent in less 
than four and a half years. These are 
big changes, and as a result we have 
largely achieved our objective of offer-
ing fully competitive salaries in the 
market from which we draw our 
employees. 

With respect to benefits, Yale has 
maintained a leadership position by 
adding new programs, expanding ex-
isting ones, and increasing their dollar 
value. The range of benefits available 
to staff is extraordinary. It includes a 
choice of four health insurance plans 
and two major medical plans at very 
low cost; 22 paid vacation days plus six 
paid recess days, four paid personal 
days and seven paid holidays each 
year; bonus vacation days for long-
service; low-cost life insurance up to 
four times salary; J 2 paid sick days per 
year with the ability to accumulate up 
to 120 unused days for later need; free 
life 
and accident insurance for 
University-related travel; up to $250 
per term in tuition assistance for 
college-level courses; half tuition in 
Yale's Special Studies courses; college 
scholarships of up to $3,500 per year 
for children of long-service employees; 
free long-term disability insurance 
which picks up where social security 
leaves off; an excellent pension plan 
entirely paid for by the University; a 
mortgage assistance program; and a 
large array of plans through which 
employees can save or accumulate 
capital with substantial tax benefits. I 
know of no employer in this area that 
matches Yale in overall benefit pro-
grams. 

Finally, there is fair treatment, the 
area where we must always work the 
hardest. Because people are human, 
make mistakes and m isunderstand one 
another, small problems can become 
big hassles. Sometimes people of ex-
traordinary genius are less sensitive 
than they should be to the needs of 
their fellow workers. One or'the major 
responsibilities of Yale's 
Personnel 
Department is to try to catch "people" 
problems early and to assist in their 
resolution. When solutions are not 
forthcoming, Yale staff members may 
avail themselves of a formal Grievance 
Procedure which really works. The 
Training Department offers a wide 
variety of courses to employees to help 
them become better supervisors, to 
show them how to deal with conflict, to 
help them manage their own careers, 
and to keep them abreast of Yale's 
policies and work rules. There can and 
will be no let-up in these efforts to 
maintain fair treatment. 

It is true in every field of endeavor 
that the better one gets at defining 
one's ideals, the harder their achieve-
ment seems to become. But setting 
goals and then finding ways to meet 
them is the cru cial task of every ad-
ministration. The conviction that Yale 
must be a good place to work is not 
limited. For in the end, all of us, 
whether we study, teach, conduct 
research or mind the store, will be bet-
ter off if our community is one where 
people work together on a voluntary 
basis in an atmosphere of cooperation 
and mutual respect. 

• 
Radley Daly is Director of Administrative 
Services at Yale. H e is a 1949 graduate of 
Yale College.


**The Clerical and Technical Employees' Struggle for Respect**
**Author: John W. Wilhelm**
**Page number(s): 9**

"1be lack of 
respect for the 
clerical and 
technical 
employees at 
Yale is, however, 
much more 
deep-seated than 
the salary issue." 

Regardless of the quality of their work, 
their length of service, their loyalty, or 
their own needs and preferences, the 
University can, and on a daily basis 
does, hire outsiders over present 
employees who have asked for a pro-
motion or transfer. 

Exo.mple: When a job is terminated, 
which happens frequently, especially 
for those employed with grant money, 
the employee gets no preference for 
other available jobs within the U niver-
sity, regardless of qualifications, years 
at Yale, or anything else. Last spring 
about 30 employees were laid off in 
one department of the Medical School 
because of grant expirations, even 
~ho~gh at the very same time openings 
In Similar jobs were being filled with 
new hirees. 

Exo.mple: R ecently, all 10 clerical and 
technical employees in one Yale office 
were called in by their supervisor. 
They were told that in January two of 
the 10 would be laid off. They were 
told that it was not known which two 
would have to go, and that all 10 
should start looking for other jobs. 

The University's non-binding, un-
enforceable policy statements read 
more positively than these examples 
suggest-but these are realities. 

technical employees continues even 
aft~r. they retire. A typical employee 
':hnng at age 65 with 20 years of ser-
VIce gets a Yale pension of about $200 
a ~onth. A $200 Yale pension makes 
retirement a bleak reward for so many 
years of service. 

The effects on the students and the 
rest of the University community of 
this lack of respect are not widely 
understood. 

When such 
a 
large 
number of participants in the -com-
munity, performing so many vital ser-
vices, feel so ignored, the effect on the 
quality of service and the quality of life 
at Yale is profound. 

In response to their second-class 
status, Yale clerical and technical 
employees have been working hard for 
two years to organize themselves into 
Local 34, Federation of University 
Employees, AFL-CIO, a sister union 
to Local 35. 

An Organizing Committee of 400 
rank and file employees is spreading 
the word about the Union throughout 
the campus. More than half of the 
2,600 employees have already joined 
Local 34. More are joining. The 
Union organizing effort is a person-to-
person campaign, with very little 
literature or propaganda. It is based 
on employees talking to employees 
about joining together to win the 
respect they ought to have. 

When a substantial majority of the 
2,600 employees have made the deci-
sion to join Local 34, a petition for a 
secret ballot election wiJI be filed with 
the National Labor Relations Board. 

What is the University's response to 
the conclusion by clerical and technical 
employees that their interests are best 
served by organizing Local 34? Sadly, 
the University has responded no dif-
ferently 
than any profit-making 
American corporation. It has hired 
Connecticut's most notorious anti-
union law firm, Siegel, O'Connor & 
Kainen. It has already started a text-
book union-busting campaign, with 
propaganda mailed to employees, and 
with "captive audience" meetings on 
work-time, designed to pressure the 
employees and divert them from their 
day-to-day concems. 

That campaign will- following the 
standard 
union-ousting 
for-
mula- steadily intensify the pressure 
on th·e employees. 

It would befit this great University 
to rise above the usual propaganda and 
pressure tactics with which corpora-
tions respond to Union organizing ef-
forts by their employees. It would befit 
Yale to listen to the employees' frustra-
tions about their lack of respect at 
Yale, and to respect the employees' 
right to join together to improve their 
lives. 

The University traveled a long, 
rocky, and decidedly unproductive 
road with Local 35 [the blue-collar 
union] before it finally concluded that 
it makes more sense to respect the 
Union than to try to destroy it. The 
blue-collar workers in Local 35 went 
on strike four consecutive times, in 
1968, 1971, 1974 and 1977. 

Although wages, benefits and work-
ing conditions were at issue in those 
strikes, the fundamental question each 
time was whether Yale would accept 
the right of its employees to bargain 
collectively. 

Finally, in the peaceful contract set-
tlements of 1980 and 1982, the Univer-
sity recognized that it is more construc-
tive and productive to approach the 
Union members as equal partners in 
the University community. 

Drawing upon that experience, why 
cannot the University reach the same 
conclusion 
with 
its clerical 
and 
technical employees before embarking 
on the road of discord and contention, 
rather than after? Why cannot this 
great University simply permit its 
to join together in Local 34 if they so 
desire, without fighting, 
without 
pressure, without corporate-style 
psychological warfare against the idea 
of the Union? 

John W . Wilhelm is the coordinaJor of the 
organizing campaign for Local 34, Fet:kra-
tion of University Empwyees, AFL-C/0, 
and is the Business Manager of Local 35. 
He is a 1967 grath.uue of Yale College. 
Tbc oplniooa cxpreacd in thU .ecrion are thOK 
o( the individual writers. TM N., J--' 
wdcoma leuen to the editor, and comment on 
VIlle and New Haven i.uea. Write to '-t32 Yale 
Scatioa, New Haven, CT 06520. All !etten for 
publication mU8t include add.raa and aipwure. 



**Brewster's new calling**
**Author: Paul Hojheinz**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Brewster's new calling 
Kingman Brewster has always 
had a knack for settling dis-
putes. As President of Yale 
in the turbulent '60s and 
Ambassador to Great Britain 
during a period of social tur-
moil, Brewster had ample op-
portunity to hone his skills as 
a mediator. 

Since we last looked in on 
Brewster (TN], January 30, 1982), 
his talent has led him in unexpected 
directions: Brewster is now settling 
multi-million dollar contract disputes 
between big-name basketball 
players-like Moses Malone and Ber-
nard King-and the National Basket-
ball Association (NBA). 
"It's a whole new world to me," 
Brewster explained. "I'm no expert in 
basketball or sports, but I'm learning 
a lot about them, and that's what 
keeps you young." 
Last May, Brewster became 
"Special Master" to rule on points of 
law in disputes between the Basket-
ball Players League and the NBA. 
He passes preliminary judgements on 
what the law says to help the district 
courts handle their swelling case load. 
"It's not like being czar of the NBA," 
Brewster said. "It's simply acting on 
behalf of the court in their legal 
disputes." 
Yale Presidents have dabbled in the 
world of professional sports on other 
occasions. Before A. Bartlett Giamat-
ti succeeded Brewster as President of 
Yale, he wrote several sports articles 
for Harper's magazine. His article, 
"Tom Seaver's Farewell," won an 
award for best sports story of the 
year. 
But Brewster finds his new job 
strange. "I wouldn't have dreamed of 
doing this anymore than I would 
have dreamed of being President of 
Yale or Ambassador to the Court 
of St. James," he said. 
Brewster caused a stir this sum-
mer when he wrote a Boston Globe 
editorial calling for "universal public-
ly useful service." Many people 
10 The New Journal/December 1, 1982 
thought Brewster was advocating a 
return to the draft, although he in-
sists his proposal was for something 
different. "It would have to be truly 
universal, and it wouldn't have to 
military," he said. "My motto is I 
would rather be drafted than nuked 
but since I'm too old to be drafted, 
that doesn't hold up so well, because ._., ... ,L~L.J' 
you're never too old to be nuked." 
Brewster doesn't have to spend 
much time on his NBA work. He has 
handled only four cases since his ap-
pointment as Special Master. He 
spends the rest of his time revising a 
book, tentatively titled TM Persistent 
Agenda, in which he will develop his 
ideas for universal service in several 
chapters. He hopes to present the 
book to a publisher sometime this 
spring. 
• -Paul Hojheinz 
December 1, 1982 


**Blasting off**
**Author: Sally Sloan**
**Page number(s): 11**

The 
Blasting off 
The Blues Astronauts are alive and 
well and living in Brighton. Mter 
some personnel reshuffiing, the 
rhythm and blues/funk band that 
formed at Yale two years ago has 
pulled its act together and taken it on 
the road. 

The Astronauts were no less than a 
tradition during their years at Yale, 
headlining local clubs and elevating 
stale SAC parties to something of an 
event. When the group of six self-
taught musicians graduated last May, 
they were having such a good time 
that they decided to make a career of 
it. 

So instead of dissolving like so 
many college bands do, the Blues 
Astronauts simply went to Boston, 
rented a big house, bought a New-
foundland puppy named Dagoo, and 
began working up and down the 
Eastern Seaboard from Maine to 
New York. They've played every gig 
they could get their hands on -from 
the Walpole Maximum Security 
Prison in Massachusetts to frat par-
ties on the university circuit to the 
biggest dance clubs in Boston and 
Providence. 

The original band at Yale was 
composed of Jodie Myers in Silliman 
and five students from Jonathan Ed-
wards: Michael Albrecht, Paul 
Bloodgood, Boo Elmer, Willie Mac-
Mullen and Dan Perlman. After 
graduation, however, Elmer and 
MacMullen dropped out of the 
group, and the Astronauts added a 
new harmonica player, Andy 
Breslau. 

Last March, the original members 
cut a promotional album, No Sanc-
tuary, at Real Art Ways studio in 
Hartford. The new Astronauts plan 
t? record another album soon, this 
ttme in a New York studio with the 
backing of some new investors. "We 
were pretty unprofessional on the 
Production side last time," said Mike 
Smith, TD '82 the band's manager. 
"This next one' should be better." 
So far the Astronauts have met 
with enthusiasm and critical acclaim, 
including a favorable review in the 
Boston Phoenix this fall. But they are 
finding out that breaking into the 
club circuit is not easy. "We are not 
an established name," said Smith. 
"We haven't opened up for any big 
names yet, but we're getting there." 
Last May they appeared in a blues 
festival which featured such artists as 
J .B. Hutto and the New Hoods, and 
Koko Taylor. 

While pleased with the progress, 
the Astronauts have discovered that 
professional music isn't the most 
lucrative business in the world- at 
least at first. "Clubs don't pay well," 
Smith explained. "The money's tight. 
We all have part-time jobs, from 
record producer to video computer 
salesman to our painting division. 
We're using our brains as much as 
possible." 

The Astronauts soon hope to hit 
some of the top New York clubs 
(Smith calls them "the toughies")-
nightspots like the Mudd Club and 
CBGB's. "We're going to do this until 
it becomes obvious that it's not going 
to work," said Smith. "It's working 
now. We've gone this far-I guess 
we'll be all right." 
• 
-Sally Sloan 


**Jennifer Beals: for God, for country and for Hollywood.**
**Author: Lauren Rabin**

Jennifer Beals: for God, for country 
and for Hollywood. 

The reel wor1d 

She had been at Yale scarcely a week,~ 
yet Jennifer Beals, Calhoun '86, was 

packing her bags. While her 
classmates were settling into their 
first Yale weekend, the 18-year-old 
actress from Chicago was in New 
York signing a contract for the lead 
role in Paramount Pictures' new ven-
ture, Flo.shdance- now filming, and 
scheduled for release in April. 

For Beals, who hopes to return to 
Yale by next semester , making a 
movie is more of a diversion than 
anything else. "At this time it's not a 
career to me," she said, "because I 
know I'm not dedicated to acting for 
the rest of my life." Still, a motion 
picture contract is not exactly 
something she can walk away from. 
She remembers the day one of the 
film producers leaned across his office 
desk with a "Satanic look" in his eyes 
t and reminded her, "We own you 
z now." There was a moment, recalled 
J! Beals, when she felt like Faust coo-
l tracting with the devil. 

In Flo.shdance, Beals plays the part 
.!i of a 19-year-olq welder in Pittsburgh 
who aspires to be a professional 
dancer. The director of the picture is 
Adrian Lyne, who, incidemally, 
worked with another Yale actress, 
Jodie Foster, in the recent film Foxes. 

Although Beals has done little ac-
ting, she has already made a name 
for herself in a slightly different line 
of work. She is covering her Yale ex-
penses with the money she earned 
during her hectic modeling career in 
high school, which included posing 
for fashion magazines and catalogues, 
showing for Chicago designer Perry 
Ellis, and working last summer in 
Paris. "While other kids were doing 
homework," remembered Beals, "I 
was putting on makeup and running 
out to do a job." Her only previous 
film experience was a small part as a 
high school student in My Bodyguard. 
Beals said she already misses her 
newly-made friends and the academic 
atmosphere at Yale. "There are times 
when I wonder what the heck I'm do-
ing out here. You're supposed to be 
in school at this point in your life. 
But I get the best of everything. I can 
experience this and then go back to 
school. Still, it would be nice if we 
were filming in New Haven." 
-Lauren Rabin 


**The underworld around us**
**Author: Geoff Hayward with Tom Feigelson**
**Page number(s): 12**

The underworld around us 
Geoff Hayward 
with Tom Feigelson 
Wesley Needham has known Sterling 
Library longer than anyone. Fifty-two 
years ago he helped build it. In the in-
tervening half century he must have 
passed the check-out desk tens of 
thousands of times. But it wasn't until 
a short while ago that he noticed 
something unusual. 

High above the check-out counter, 
perched over the mural of Alma 
Mater, is a large sculpted vampire bat 
with its fangs bared in a fiendish laugh. 
Presiding over the magnificent en-
trance hall, it occupies the most com-
manding position in Sterling's 
"cathedral of learning." A position 
which in less secular cathedrals would 
be reserved for a guardi~n angel. 

In our gothic world we are sur-
rounded by stone figures which give 
lasting expression to a strange com-
mentary. Sometimes it is just distrac-
ting. Often it is satiric or secretly in-
sulting. But at times it is openly con-
deming, sacrilegious and even per-
verted. The voice comes down from 
A Y ali e and hi~ companion 
the gothic facades with unpunctuated 
insistence, but so subtly that we don't 
consciously hear it. 

On the roof of Trumbull College's 
lower courtyard is the figure of a man 
perched on a stone potty with his pants 
down around his heels. Grinning fool-
ishly, he defecates on the college 
below. "I don't like to pass it when I'm 
taking tours through the west court," 
says Needham. "I don't think it's a nice 
thing for ladies- elderly or otherwise 
-to see. I've complained about it but 
no one seems to want to take it down." 

On Trumbull's Elm and High Street 
corner, 
the humour gets more 
perverse. A relief shows a devil blow-
ing a horn as a dog mounts a drunken 
man- a symbol of sodomy. Another 
bas-relief beneath the defecating man 
shows more devils and strange ritual; a 
group of hooded and costumed people 
gather round laughing at a man in a 
coffin. The man appears to be mastur-
bating. 

The most disturbing element in it all 
is the implied sacreligion. A statue on 
Davenport's' York Street facade shows 
the Lord and the devil conspiring in a 
joke. The devil grins slyly at the Lord 
who hoots with laughter. The statue is 
12 The New Journal/December 1, 1982 
not garrish. And it only becomes offen-
sive when you begin to wonder what it 
was meant to symbolize. 

At the far end of Sterling Archives is 
the circular gothic vault originally used 
to house the Gutenberg Bible. Above 
the gates which protect the room are 
two suitably reverent religious figures. 
But faces of jesters and horned devil-
like creatures line the gates themselves. 

More frightening than the presence 
of the demons is their placement. Why 
devils on a gate which guarded a text of 
so much religious significance? 

In Sterling Library, the humour 
takes an anti-academic twist. Lining 
the exhibition corridor, fourteen 
statuettes give satiric renditions of 
scholars. A student reads as a cloaked 
and hooded skeleton clings to his 
shoulder. A glutonous drunken stu-
dent smokes and gawks at a pin-up 
nude. The last statuette shows a stu-
dent chortling over a book inscribed 
with the words "U.R.A. JOKE." 

Officially, at least, the statuettes 
were supposed to satirize not students 
but different types of study. All the 
same, the student reading "U.R.A. 
JOKE" seems to bear the brunt of his 
own laughter. The cryptic message is 



**A Lasting Laugh**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A vampire hovers over Sterling Library 
more contemptuous than it is clever. 
Are we meant to laugh at the book, at 
the student, or at ourselves? 
One could go on and on. At the Law 
School, cynical, anti-academic jokes 
abound. On the tops of the finials, four 
foot sculpted animals conduct a "mock 
trial" over the whole Law School. 
Wolves and parrots dress up as 
lawyers; their clients are donkeys and 
goats with money bags. On Grove 
~treet, Justice falls at the mercy of a 
Jester; her scales tip as a fool in cap and 
bells pulls a blindfold down over her 
eyes. 

There is something discpmforting 
about the fun these buildings have at 
our expense. "It's not really very fun-
ny," protests former Master of Trum-
bull George Lord. "There is an eclec-
ti~ism about it all which is very distur-
bmg. Unlike at Oxford and Cam-
bridge, the architecture here is inward 
looking with a hostile streak toward the 
rest of the world." 

There is something odd in using an 
architecture to portray 
people 
defecating or devils masturbating 
when the institution is supposedly 
devoted to loftier pursuits. There is 
SO~ething dishonest about a building 
W~•ch on its facades pays reverent 
tribute to divinity and in its interior 
~akes a lasting and bitter mockery of 
It. "I think it's a little gross and a little 
demeaning," says Lord. "On a public 
act of creation an architect cannot ig-
nore the symbolism of his work." 

But the architect, James Gamble 
1, Rogers, was not one to ignore the little 
~ things in a building. He must have 
known. "[Rogers' firm] had been 
organized as very much an extension 
of his own personality." writes his 
grandson J. G. Rogers III. "It had 
been organized both to allow him max-
imum control over every aspect of the 
businesJJ and maximum freedom for 
himself . . . Rogers' control on the 
design of the buildings went virtually 
unchecked." As Yale's consulting ar-
chitect, Rogers had the power to create 
his own little university. In less than a 
decade he built the "new Yale"; 
Harkness Tower, Sterling Memorial 
Library, the Law School, the Grad 
School, and nine of the coll~ges. He 
did it all with an obsession for detail, 
and a mania for control which set him 
apart from other architects. 

Rogers had little respect for the 
quibbling university committees set up 
to keep him in check. As they sat 
heatedly debating whether or not an 
apple should appear at Isaac Newton's 
feet, he wrote, "I shall be very glad to 
do any or all of the work of the com-
mittee but there will arise a time when 
the builders have to have models. In 
fact, they are howling for them now. 
Yes, howling is the word." 

Rogers repeatedly ignored the com-
mittee's ban on carving busts of living 
people. He made sure he and his 
designers were immortalized in Indi-
ana limestone wherever possible .. But 
his egotism went beyond the desire to 
see his smiling face. As Yale's architect 
supreme, he was the author of a world 
of stone, and he was not above leaving 
a few cryptic messages. 

Take the curious juxtaposition of 
two roof sculptures on symmetricaJly 
opposite sides of Sterling Library. One 
is a Yale student bowed over his boob 
as though in prayer. The other, a 
horned demon with a spiked tail, hun-
ches over in the same pose. A long, 
thick, phallic tongue thrusts ~mt past 
his chin as he grasps somethmg un-
rt!cognizable tightly ag~st. ~s _pelvis 
When viewed side by s1de, 1t 1s hard to 
see the demon as anything but a satiric 
corruption of the Yalie. Bu~ i~s ~ot a 
connection the average tounst IS likely 
to make. The demon is hidden behind 
Grinning foolishly, the figure 
defecates on the college 
below. 

the Reserve R eading Room. so the two 
sculptures cannot be viewed simultan-
eously. 

All the same, the connection seems 
to have been deliberate and more than 
one person must have known about it. 
Plaster models for most of the library's 
sculptures were made, and shown to 
Rogers for approval. A Yale archives 
picture collection shows photographs 
of each model. 

But, the collection also shows that in 
the case of the two roof sculptures, a 
singular exception was made. Someone 
moved model 31 (the student) next to 
model 98 (the demon) and took a pic-
ture of them side by side. A strange 
statement about students, which might 
otherwise have been overlooked, 
became strikingly obvious. Whoever 
took that picture and whoever saw it 
knew about the satiric relation between 
the sculptures. And it seems likely that 
one of these people was the prankster 
who divined it. 

The same queer sense of humor is at 
work on the book tower of Sterling 
Library. Beneath a set of gothic win-
dows, are four bas relief heads. On the 
far left is a yale (the two horned 
mythical beast)-a symbol of the 
University. On the far right is a stu-
dent dressed up in a cap and tassle- a 
symbol of scholarship. Between them 
are two savage demons with fangs 
bared in threatening grimace. 

This mixing of satanic symbols with 
scholarly ones is too blatant to have 
escaped Rogers' discerning eye. The 
four heaas are so high up and so close 
together that they appear more as a 
group than as individuals. And no 
matter how you interpret it, the por-
trait isn't flattering of either Yale or her 
students. 

Not all of this architectural cant has 
gone unnoticed. Even as "the New 
Yale" was still taking form, a 'i930 
issue of the Harkness Hoot leveled its bit-
ter criticism. "It violates all canons of 
good taste by deliberately misusing the 
Gothic details with which it abounds. 
How can students be educated to ar-
tistic appreciation under the eaves of 
an architecture that puts water tanks in 
church towers, and lavatories in oriels? 
It seems dubious what lesson of hones-
ty the young man can derive from such 
m isuses and untruths." 

Yale lecturer Lila Freedman writes, 
"But what is most curious is that many 
[of the Law School ornaments] are 
deliberately satiric, implicitly com-
menting upon or even explicitly mock-
ing the very concepts that presumably 
are taught within the building itself." 

Says Lord, "This architecture has a 
lot of authority and it's conditioning 
people all the time. I think it's enclos-
ing and very insistent. 
I 
think 
undergraduates 
are 
negatively 
af-
fected, 
irritated and finally 
even 
depressed by it." 

Why? 
Wh" would an institution like Yale 
portray through its ornaments so much 
cymc1sm about the values of educa-
tion? Why a jester triumphing over 
Justice? Why all the animals dressed 
up as magistrates and lawyers? Why all 
the portrayals of drunken and deca-
dent students? Why the recurring con-
nections ·between students and 
demons? 

According to Yale legend, the drafts-
men did it. The story goes that under-
paid Italian stone masons decided to 
vent their frustrations against an elitist 
institution by carving their insults into 
the buildings. And when they tired of 
carving insults, they decided to carve 
themselves. In the front arches ofHGS 
appear the faces of all the draftsmen. 

But this common knowledge ex-
planation is more myth than fact, said 
History of Art professor Vincent Scul-
ly. "These stories of spontaneous crea-
tion 
and happy draftsmen 
have 
developed afterward~ ... I say I'd be 
willing to bet that you could find 
sketches for every one (of the or-
naments.)" 

Wesley Needham, whose face is 
carved in the right hand archway of 
HGS, remembers the decision to por-
tray draftsmen on the building. Like 
all other decisions about ornaments, it 
came from the architectural designer 
and not from the draftsmen them-
selves. 

Sketches for ornaments 
originated as a rule in the office of the 
head designer. James Gamble Rogers 
would review the sketches at a weekly 
session. In the case of the faces of 
HGS, he seems to have given approval 
even though it was another flagrant 
violation of the University Decoration 
Committee guidelines. 

In fact, an effort may have been 
made to hide some of the more offen-
sive 
statues from 
the draftsmen. 
Needham remembers that the man on 
the potty was not on the plans for 
Trumbull's west courtyard. He says 
that the plans he worked on showed 
only a 1 straightforward finial. Needham 
admits he really doesn't know how the 
potty man got there, but he figures that 
it must have been put on afterwards by 
undergraduates because, "No faculty 
member would ever do that." He adds, 
"It is perfectly formed over the finial. It 
is well done . . . I would like to know 
how they did it." 

But it seems that undergrads had 
nothing to do with it. Photographs 
show the potty man on his throne 
shortly after the building was finished. 
The pictures created a bit of a stir, and 
Rogers made no effort to deny respon-
sibility. 

Another explanation for the satire is 
that architect and chief designers used 
satiric'!.l ornament:: in an attempt to 
mimic : the medieval gothic style. 
"They thought they were being very 
medieval," Scully says. "These people 
were acting out of a social myth about 
~othic architecture." Nothing sinister, 
JUSt a failed naive attempt to 
i,mitate 
the expression of a long lost architec-
ture. 

But this explanation is only slightly 
better than the creative draftsmen 
theory. Rogers and his designers did 
not think of themselves as curators of a 
gothic tradition but creators of a new 
style. In an article on Trumbull Col-
lege architecture, Needham describes 
how the work of chief designer John 
Donald Tuttle was to innovate and 
develop a new "modern gothic" or-
namentation. Needham relates how 
Tuttle regularly substituted his own or-
naments for traditional gothic. 

~yond the potty and the devil 
~hefs, one recurring "modern-gothic" 
•dc:a was to plaster •_he college with 
anamals. In the arches of Trumbull one 
finds serpents, bats, frogs, and sharks. 
A number of large rats adorn the cen-
tral set of windows on Elm Street. 


**Unique Gift Giving**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Unique Gift Giving 
Let us fill your Christrnoose 
Stockings 
Gourmet delights 
Exquisite Chocolates 
Gift baskets made to order 
Homemade fudge 
gourmet popcorn 
Card/wrap, gifts, 
casual clothing, ceramics, 
a little bit of heaven, 
a lot of fun! 
Both open every day 
(&nights for XMas) 
777-0005 777-0006 
16 The New Journal/December 1, 1982 


**Sterling Library**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

Sterling Library 
Above the most westerly set of win-
dows there is a monkey and an ass. 
What were they trying to make out of 
us? Which was supposed to best 
characterize the students of Trumbull 
CoiJege? 
Rogers' captains 
It all adds up to a statement about 
students and scholarship. It may not 
have been made by Rogers, but il was 
made with his consent. The people 
who made the sketches and clay models 
came to him for approval. He called 
them his 'captains,' and they all seem to 
have shared his sardonic sense of 
humour. 
It started with the hiring of E. 
Donald Robb. Since Rogers had vir-


**Title: James Gamble Rogers and Yale's Mutant Gothic**
**Author: Geoff Hayward and Tom Fezgelson**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
bz
Rogers." Why would Rogers lend his 
credibility to an artist whose work w..as 
so universally disliked? A personal 
friendship? Maybe, but it may also 
have been because their senses for 
satire were so compatible. 


A university possessed 
T he mocking spirit of James Gamble 
Roger s found expression in more than 
j ust 
decorations. The buildings 
themselves are his greatest commen-
tary. In some cases, as with the Law 
School, he chose to make fun-house 
reflections of Oxford and Cambridge. 
Other times, imitations gave way to 
elaborate parody. 


T he main entrance hall of Sterling 
Library is a mock cathedral. Confes-
sional booths have become telephone 
booths; the altar is used as a check-out 
counter; scenes from the passion play 
became scenes from the history of 
Connecticut; the portrait of the Virgin 
Mary is replaced by one of Alma 
Mater; and the Holy Book is converted 
into what seems to be an early version 
of the Blue Book. 


There isn't necessarily anything 
more than good wholesome fun behind 
Rogers' architectural punning. But ob-
vious 
explanations for his multi-
million dollar play on buildings were 
never entirely accepted. A 1931 issue 
of the Harkness Hoot, asked "Is there 
any honesty in hiding the magnificent 
function of a tower of books under a 
cloakage that has no more relevance to 
it than to a grain elevator? ... All 
this, in the university whose motto is 
Lux and Veritas. There is not one sug-
g~stion of Veritas in the Sterling 
Ltbrary, and for that matter there is 
precious little of Lux." 


Sterling is the showpiece of Yale's 
mutant gothic style, 
but Rogers' 
ca~edral of learning makes tribute to 
netther d ivinity nor scholarship. It is 
perhaps a 
monument only to its 
creator. And if, as is inscribed on the 
~ain entrance of Sterling, "The 
Ltbrary is the H eart of the University," 
what does this elaborate farce say 
about Yale? 


. Yale used to be a cam pus of open 
VIstas with unassuming architecture in 
the style of Connecticut Hall. But 
when Rogers took over as consulting 
architect, Yale began to close herself 
Over the sh oulder 
in. Gothic facades, erected with the 
money of the roaring twenties and the 
labour of the dirty thirites, made for a 
city of fortresses, each guarded by its 
stone walls, moat and spiked iron 
gates. T he walls are austere, the moats 
enclosing, the gates forbidding. 


And even those who enter the sanctu-
ary of the inner courtyards face the per-
sistent satire of sculptures that question 
their right to be there. There is nothing 
inviting or reassuring about devils 
overlooking people masturbating in 
coffins. Nor is there much majesty in a 
man sitting on potty. And whether it's 
a jester triumphing over justice, or a 
devil laughing at the Lord, or a ddg 
mounting a man, these sculptures 
throw into doubf the values which a 
university should hold sacred. How 
much of it do we unknowingly hear 
and how much of it can we safely ig-
nore when we walk in Rogers' world? 


• 
Geoff Hayward, a senior in Davenport, is an 
associate editor of TN]. Tom Fezgelson, a 
senior in Pierson, proposed the idea Jor this 
artick and contributed signifu:antly to the 
research. 


**Title: SPECIAL REPORT A look at the residential college system**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20**

SPECIAL REPORT 
A look at 
the residential 
college system 
Pierson College under construction, circa 19.30. The view is from Park Street (behind Pierson), looking East. 


**Title: What does the future hold?**
**Author: Jim Lowe**
**Page number(s): 21**

What does 
the future 
hold? 
Jim Lowe 
"I'm in Morse. What college are you 
in?" Hundreds of times a week, in 
classes, at SAC parties and at dinner, 
Yale students use this greeting to iden-
tify themselves. The residential col-
leges are the center of undergraduate 
life at Yale. And on September 25, 
1983 the residential college system will 
be 50 years old. 


In honor of this anniversary, the 
University has set in motion a process 
that includes the Committee on the 
Future of the Residential College 
System under the chairmanship of Pro-
fessor Donald Kagan, a multi-million 
dollar fund drive linked in part to the 
findings and recommendations of the 
Kagan Committee, and the actual 
celebration itself, scheduled for next 
fall. 


In addition, the Council on 
Priorities and Planning will examine 
the effect of the college system on the 
university as a whole. All of this activi-
ty, first announced by President A. 
Bartlett Giamatti in his freshman ad-
dress this fall, appears to be aimed at 
attempting to improve the college 
system wherever possible. 


Is there any real reason, other than 
the 50th anniversary of the system, to 
reevaluate the system? The system ap-
pears to be unique in American educa-
tion, and happily so, 
it appears. 


Almost everyone at Yale loves the col-
leges. Why tamper with the system at 
all? 


There are a few obvious reasons. 
The colleges are 50 years old and are in 
need of major repairs. Additionally, 
while in basis the system works very 
well, there are some areas such as the 
masters and fellows programs (see con-
necting articles) which could use some 
fine tuning. But the question still re-
mains, why such a substantial agenda 
for the celebration? For the answer to 
this question it is necessary to turn to 
the person who first thought to link the 
celebration with a fund drive. 


Tim Naftali, a senior in Timothy 
Dwight, says that he has been de~ply 
interested in the college system smce 
he arrived at Yale. After working with 
the TD seminar committee last year, 
he decided to seek a way to save that 
controversial and financially troubled 
program. What better time to raise 
money, he figured, than the 50th an-
niversary of the colleges. 


It was Naftali, who first brought a 
coherent plan for the celebration of the 
50th anniversary to Giamatti. The 
president had alr~ady been cc;msi?ering 
the anniversary. I focused h1s mmd on 
the process," said Naftali. Beca':'se of 
his early involvement, Naftah has 
become a central figure in the whole 
process. He is one of two students on 
the Kagan Committee and chairman 
of a committee that will recommend 
plans for the celebration. 


The study 
The Kagan Committee has the poten-
tial of being the most important entity 
to come out of the planning for the an-
niversary. This ten member committee 
of eight faculty and two students was 
charged by Giamatti'to "look out to the 
rest of the century, and recommend 
how we and our successors might con-
tinue to enhance the moral, social and 
academic- the total educational-
quality of the residential colleges." 


"When I came to the first meeting I 
thought this was going to be an im-
possible task," said Ellen Shemitz '83, 
the other student on the committee. 


Professor Kagan explained that the 
committee wants to look at the history 
of the system and see how it got to 
where it is now, evaluate what is hap-
pening in the colleges now, and finally 
make suggestions on how the indiv-
idual colleges and the system as a 
whole can be improved. 


"My own feeling," said Kagan, "is 
that the colleges are wonderful. I have 
not seen anything as good anyw.here. 
partly for that reason I have urged the 
committee not to take the present 
system for granted. Nothing should be 
completely sacred during the examina-
tion process. We should be looking for 
the best of all possible worlds." 


Specifically, subcommittees will be 
examining the physical needs of the 
colleges, such as new pipes or roofs, as 
well as topics such as teaching in the 
colleges, the fellows program, the role 
of the masters and deans and the possi-
bility of new colleges. "We are acting 
now as if there are no restrictions, 
financial or otherwise," said Kagan. 
"We're trying w create an ideal." 


But still the question remains, why 
now? "An anniversary is a good time 
for reflection," said Naftali. But that is 
not the entire motivation. "If we pro-
duced a good report it will be used by 
the Development Office to help raise 
funds," said Kagan. "We will be mak-
ing suggestions as to what is needed for 
the colleges. I hope it will help target 
the drive." 


sssss 
The bottom line is the money. "We're 
still at stage one in the process," ex-
plained Terry Holcombe, 
vice-
president for development and alumni 
affairs. "We are looking to the Kagan 
Committee, the Dean's Office, the 
Council of Masters and others to 
decide on priorities and then we can set 
a goal." Holcombe would like to of-



**Concert Listings**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-IN CONCERT-
ASTRUD GILBERTO 
Tuesday, Dec. 7th 
two shows-7:30 & 10:30 
~~Girl From lmpanima" 
WEDNESDAYS 
50's NITE 
B.B. HIND & 
THURSDAYS 
BOSTON 
STAND-UP COMICS 
THE BLUE MOON ERS 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY -
Same-with 9:30 show 
Saturday, Dec. 18th 
GALVANIZED JAZZ BAND 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY NIGHTS IN OUR DINING ROOM: 
WATCH FOR THE MAGICIAN! 


**Yale College's 50th Anniversary: A Look Ahead**
**Author: Jim Lowe**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

ficially announce the drive next fall in 
conjunction with the actual celebra· 
tions. Both he and Naftali would like to 
link the celebration with the alumni 
gatherings in the early fall in part to 
help the fund raising. "It would be a 
good chance to give the alumni 
another look at what they are being 
asked to help," said H olcombe. 
It was Naftali who first brought a 
$50 million goal to coordinate with the 
50th anniversary, but Holcombe says 
that no real goal has been set yet. "It 
could be anywhere from $30 million up 
to say $100 million. We just won't 
know until we get a solid list of 
priorities," H olcombe said 
The center of the fund raising drive 
will be for physical improvements for 
the colleges. 
According to Jerald 
Stevens, vice-president for finance and 
administration, all the colleges except 
Morse and Stiles need infrastructure 
repairs in the near future. 
"There is definitely a need for 
renovation: roofs, plumbing, perhaps 
wiring-all need or will need major 
repair work. We are looking at the five 
to six million dollar range," said 
Stevens. 
These needs create a problem from a 
fund raising point of view. "It's very 
difficult to raise money for buildings," 
said Holcombe. "Foundations and cor-
porations are particularly unwilling to 
give for these sorts of needs. We will 
have to rely on individuals for that 
money." 
The fund drive, however, will in-
volve more than just buildings. "We 
are going to be looking at priorities not 
just in 
the 
residential 
colleges 
themselves, but in all of Yale College," 
said Holcombe. "For example, the col-
lege writing program, which affects 
more than just the residential colleges, 
may be one of the things we'll want to 
fund." Holcombe also suggested that 
the University might use this oppor-
tunity to raise badly needed financial 
aid funds. 

The party 
The least developed of all the parts of 
the 50th anniversary of the colleges is 
the plan for the actual celebration 
itself. In his freshman address Giamat-
ti placed the burden of developing 
ideas on the individual colleges. Naf-
tali, who called the celebration "a pet 
project of mine," was, if anything, less 
definite. 


"We are considering all sorts of 
things: masters' balls, gala musical per-
formances, perhaps involving other 
universities. 
The celebration 
will 
almost certainly be in the fall. The 
spring has too many other events that 
we don't want to conflict with. 
His committee hopes to receive 
recommendations from all the colleges 
and then w11l give a report to the presi-
dent. Naftali, like Holcombe would 
like to see some coordination between 
the fund raising and the celebration. 
"We will heighten awareness of the col-
lege system through the celebration " 
he said, "and then the Developme~t 
Office will solicit funds to aid the 
system." 
. ~hile he says he urges each in-
d1v1d1ual college to have its own 
celebration, Naftali seems to want at 
least some form of central celebration 
as well. "We are celebrating the 
system, 
not just the individual 
colleges." 

Student Involvement? 
The Kagan Committee has made some 
effort to publicize their existence. 
Notices have been placed in various 
campus publications soliciting written 
suggestions and Naftali made a presen-
tation to a meeting of the Yale College 
Council. According to Shemitz, she 
and Naftali plan to visit all the residen-
tial college councils in the next few 
months in the hope of soliciting more 
suggestions. "The great thing is that 
there are students involved in this," 
said Naftali. However, as of the first 
week of November, according to 
Shemitz, only one written student sug-
gestion had been received by the com-
mittee. 
Kagan said he suggested having an 
open meeting to get some student feed-
back but the idea received little support 
from the committee. Naftali said that it 
was not the time for such a meeting; he 
felt it was important for the committee 
to have some findings to present to 
such a gathering and thus use people as 
a "sounding board." Kagan said this 
was not the only reason lor opposition. 
The committee also felt that such 
meetings usually got very low turnouts 
~nd generated few original sugges-
tions. 
Beth Pardo, the Chairperson of the 
YCC, said that while the YCC had 
considered an open meeting of its own 
on the subject, there was "no formal 
"We are celebrating the 
system, not just the In· 
dlvldual colleges." 
plan" for one in the near future. 
Yet despite this lack of student par-
ticipation, all the principle people in-
volved in the planning of the celebra-
tion constantly stress the importance of 
the students in the process. "What will 
this have to do with you?" said Giamat-
ti to the freshmen . "Almost everything. 
You will be very much a part ol 1t .. 
You will be crucial to what goes forth." 
Naftali sees this as a great opportunity 
for student involvement. "For students 
who care about higher education," he 
said, "this is a unique opportunity." 
And Holcombe sees students helping 
to raise funds for the residential col-
leges by meeting with the donors and 
giving them a sense of who their 
money will really help. 
With or without further student in-
volvement, the process unveiled in the 
freshman address ·will continue to 
the celebration next fall and on into the 
fund drive. It will almost certainly 
have at least some effect on the 
residential college system as we know 
it. Kagan hopes that at the very least 
his committee will produce an ideal 
against which the residential college 
system can be judged in the future. But 
he and others hope this review process 
can do even more. 
Shemitz sees this as as "amazing op-
portunity to reevaluate the system." 
Said Naftali, "I would like to see a reaf-
firmation of our commitment to the 
residential college system. Anyway, 
nothing is perfect. The system could 
always use improving." 
Over the next few months the 
Kagan Committee will continue its ex-
amination. In April the committee 
plans to present its report to the presi-
dent and the Yale community for 
discussion and review. "I have no idea 
what we will find or suggest," said 
Kagan. "But if no one gets mad, then 
we have done a bad job." But even in 
its fmal form, the committee's report 
will only be non-binding recommenda-
tions to the president. Under these 
conditions, what effect do committee 
members hope to have? 
"I would like to see the college 
system in existence 50 years from 
now," said Naftali. "If this happens 
then the Kagan Committee has done 
an excellent job." 

jim Lowe, a sophomore m Morse, ts an 
associate editor of TNJ.


300 VORK STREET • NEW HAUEN 
Concert Line: 777·7431 
UpcoMiNG AcTS ... 
DECEMBER 
I R.E.M. 
2 SLOW BURN 
5 ARLO GUTHRIE 
& Shenandoah 
II AVERAGE 
WHITE BAND 
12 SPVRO GYRA 
16 DAUID 
JOHANSSEN 
JANUARY 
4 BOW WOW WOW 
TOAD'S WATERBURY


**What's the master to do?**
**Author: Andi Vayda**
**Page number(s): 24**

Ahen someone asks what I do I feel 
panicky. ~ ask myself, what do I do? 
Do I do anything? How do I define my 
own job?" said Calhoun Master Davie 
Napier. Such a comment is not un-
common among the 12 residential col-
lege masters whose role is difficult to 
define and poorly understood by most 
of the university community. The 
master can be disciplinarian, tone-
setter, advisor, grounds keeper, 
spiritual leader or scapegoat. 
Theoretically, the master is "the chief 
administrative officer of the college 
and the presiding academic presence," 
as President A. Bartlett Giamatti said 
in his freshman address this fall. In ac-
tuality, the role varies from college to 
college, from master to master. In 
some colleges the master takes an ac-
tive role, working with the seminar 
committee, the college council and the 
social activities chairmen. In others he 
or she may have less direct contact with 
student activities but affect the college 
in other ways through master's teas or 
lecture series. 
The master is also charged with en-
forcing 
the rules 
stipulated in 
Undergraduate Regulations. 
Here, 
too, the role of the master varies in 
each college. Some masters appear to 
have a policy of benign neglect, par-
ticularly when it comes to rules about 
happy hours and other SAC events. 
Others are stricter; ,last year one 
master went as far as to issue a decree 
of rustication, expelling a student from 
the college for a specified period of 
time. The master can do this when he 
or she feels a student has repeatedly or 
severely violated the regulations and 
has disrupted the life of the college. 
Given the lack of definition and con-
sistency, relations between masters 
and students are often tense and 
sometimes non-existent. "I do not 
know what the master is supposed to 
do," said john Pergande, Morse '85. 
"His defined powers have never been 
told to anyone I know. Since no one 
knows their powers, thf' masters are 
24 The New Journal/December 1, 1982 
not a major factor in college life. It 
ends up that no one even cares about 
the masters." 
Not all students feel that this lack of 
definition is necessarily that much of a 
problem. Lyle Crowley, Pierson '85, 
::al~ed the master the "spiritual leader" 
of the college. By constantly being in 
touch with students, according to 
Crowley, the master can be "very 
much on the level of the students." 
This contact helps to unify the college. 
"He definitely brings us together." 
Bridging die inconsistencies be-
tween the colleges is one goal of the 
Council of Masters. Composed of the 
12 masters, the president, the provost, 
the deans of Yale College, 
two 
associate deans and an associate pro-
vost, the Council meets as an· advisory 
body to the president and as a group to 
share information, according to Coun-
cil Chairperson and Berkeley Master 
Robin Winks. In the Council, masters 
attempt to shape policy on issues affec-
ting students' lives. Through the 
Council and independently, masters 
function as information and action 
channels for student concerns and sug-
gestions. 

Useful link 
Students involved in the residential 
college councils and in social activities 
committees attest to the importance of 
masters in helping to carry out student 
proposals and activities. Yale College 
Council Chairperson Beth Pardo sees 
the Council of Masters as a "strong 
political force on campus." She ex-
plains that the YCC works closely with 
the Council, which she described as "a 
counterforce to the administration." 
She elaborated, "The masters tend to 
be more open to students than the ad-
ministration is. 
"If ther~ is something we want to do 
that we think the administration may 
not support, we go first to the Council 
of Masters. They can help us because 
they are senior faculty members and 
are influential." 
But Pardo cited problems in dealing 
with the masters that stem again from 
the lack of definition of their duties. 
"We find ik scary that we do not know 
what these powerful people are doing 
or ta,lking about. A lot of times they are 
deciding upon issues very relevant to 
students, such as SAC policies and 
hours, yet they do not solicit our opi-
nion. If students do not know what the 
Calhoun Master Davie Napier 
masters are talking ::>bout, they can not 
have any input into the decision mak-
ing." 

Masters can also be counselors. 
"The master knows the people involved 
in college activities. He> ran suggest to 
a student activities which he might en-
joy or be helped by participating in," 
said Linda Schupack, a freshman 
counselor in Silliman. 
The way the master sets the tone of 
the college is most difficult to define. 
Personality and allocation of the funds 
available allow the masters to create a 
distinct atmosphere in each college. 
"There is much room for the in-
dividual interests of masters," Napier 
said. "My field is theology. I am or-
dained and have an uncommon in-
terest in the pastoral function of the 
master. I care very much about the 
people in the college." Nidza Vizcarra, 
Calhoun '83, thinks that although 
Napier is not solely responsible for the 
"incredible closeness" of her college, his 
actions and attitude help to maintain 
it. 
Tastes and hobbies of the master can 
carry over into residential college life. 
Schuback noted that Master William 
Bennett of Silliman has special in-
terests 
in 
classical 
music and 
photography. He holds chamber music 
brunches and plans many recitals. He 
also gave money to build an excellent 
darkroom. 

Different approach 
Sitting in his office and displaying a 
pile of index cards mounted with 
freshman snapshots accompanied by 
statistics, Napier related what he 
believes is the most important part of 
his job. "At the top of my list of 
priorities is knowing students as quick-
ly as I can, as soon as possible by 
name. Once a relationship has been 
established, it is much easier f01 
students to come to me when they have 
a problem." 
Just a few hundred feet away in 
Berkeley College, Winks offered a dif-



**Master-Student Relationships: A Question of Visibility**
**Author: Andi Vayda**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ferent view of a master's priorities. He 
feels that a master's visibility in the col-
~ege is not necessarily his most impor-
tant function. "If a master is too visi-
ble, he is not serving the best interests 
of the students. He can get more done 
behind the scenes. Accessibility is very 
important; visibility is cosmetic and 
less important," he said. 

Students often form their opinions 
about their master depending on h is 
level of visibility. Pergande explained, 
"The only time I ever see our master is 
when he is issuing a decree of some-
thing we cannot do. He seems to have 
no great involvement in the college." 

William Hallo, Morse's new master, 
has stirred some resentment among 
students who feel he is not sufficiently 
attuned to or involved in student ac-
tivities. 

Students 
like 
Rhonda Reaves, 
Trumbull '85, who think the master 
should function as a "den-parent," 
~rgue that day-to-day contact i8 very 
tmportant. However, some students 
feel visibility strains relationships be-
tween students and masters. 

Berkeley senior Chris Kafoglis ex-
plained, "Students approach those who 
might control their daily lives in an 
anxious and mistrustful way. Thus, 
the masters are operating from the 
beginning without the trust of the 
students. The less visible the master is, 
the better, because if he is visible, peo-
ple feel they are being regulated." 

The vision of master solely as rule 
enforcer helps to explain last year's stu-
dent protest of Trumbull Master 
M ichael Cooke's rustication of Roy 
Jenkins '84. In response to Jenkins' 
" malicous parody" of Trumbull's 
newsletter, Cooke issued a decree, 
later rescinded 
which 
rusticated 
J enkins for two ~eeks. One hundred 
students responded to the decree with a 
Protest in the Trumbull common room 
6()d a petition against the master which 
~rcent of T rumbullians signed. 

! latr-ups in master-student relation-
ships such as that over Cooke's rustica-
''The only time I ever see 
our master Is when he Is 
Issuing a decree of 
something we cannot do." 
tion decree last year are caused by un-
familiarity with the rules until they are 
enforced. Another cause of student 
frustration toward the masters is the 
lack of awareness of the unwritten and 
often unseen activities of masters. 

These frustrations exist especially in 
colleges where day-to-day interactions 
are minimal. 

Students are not the only people 
frustrated with the lack of definition of 
the masters' role. The masters them-
selves often do not know exactly what 
their position in the college is supposed 
to be. Adding to their difficulties, the 
University sees the mastership as only 
a half-time job. During their five-year 
terms, masters are expected to teach 
half of their normal course loads. John 
Hall, a professor of Japanese h istory 
and a former master of Morse, ex-
plained 
some of the 
difficulties 
academics encounter when they take 
the job of master. "Being a master is a 
full-time job. It is all-consuming. It is 
very difficult for a professor who is 
primarily a scholar to take over the 
job." 

Masters also find that completing 
the tasks they are expected to perform 
is not always easy. Lack of personnel 
and cooperation often cause frustra-
tion. Hall said, "The master is respon-
sible for 
everything without 
the 
machinery to do it. He is powerless to 
do the job himself. He must learn what 
buttons to push." 

But through it all, most of the 
masters appear to enjoy their posi-
tions. "The rewards of being a master 
are tremendous," said Napier. "fm 
given the privilege of living with some 
of the finest young people to be found 
in the world." 

• 

Andi Vayda is a .freshmo.n in Berke";y. 


**Finding out the fellows**
**Author: Katherine Scobey**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

No one is happy with the college 
fellowships. Students wonder what the 
fellows do. Fellows and masters know 
what the fellowships do and see how 
they faJI short of their potential. All 
agree that residential college life could 
be tremendously enriched by stronger 
fellowships. 

Somehow, 
"they are 
healthy in only about half of the col-
leges," according to Robin Winks, who· 
is chairman of the Council of Masters 
and m.aster of Berkeley College. 

Throughout the colleges the main 
purpose of the fellowships is twofold-
to bring faculty together arid to bring 
faculty and students together. Most 
students are only concerned with the 
second goal. They assume the fellow-
ships exist for students, as a group of 
advisors or as a link with the faculty. 
Thus, when the fellows meet without 
students, as they usually do, students 
wonder what "those teachers who eat in 
the dining halls" are doi~g, and they 
consider the feUowships rather ineffec-
tual. 

"The fellowships are not necessarily 
for the students," said Emmet 
McLaughlin, a 
resident fellow of 
Davenport College. For fellows and 
masters, the primary value of the 
fellowships is the bringing together of 
faculty of different departments. 

Heinrich von Staden, lJlaster of Ezra 
Stiles College, points to the "intellec-
tual cross-fertilization" resulting from 
the fellowships; 
when 
faculty get 
together, they teach each other, and 
they breed ideas. Fellows and masters 
also work toward interaction of faculty 
and students; however, this has not 
been very effective. 

A different purpose 

As originally implemented in 1933, the 
residential college system provided for 
only 12 faculty members for each col-
lege fell<;>wship, but their specific pur-
pose was unclear. George Pierson, the 
university historian, who has been a 
fellow of Davenport College since 
1933. witnessed the "unexpected" 
operation of the program. "There was 
great excitement at the rediscovery of · 
faculty." Yale became, he ~akl, .. 
~a talk-
ing university" as the faculty of the 
various departments came together.. · 
The fellowships became a sort of facul-
ty club, not by design, but in effect. 

A~ the university grew, the 
fellowships 
grew. Then .during 
Kingman Brewster's presidency, the 
Mandatory Rule was passed and ef-
fected what Winks described as the 
"democritizing" of the fellowship pro-
gram. All faculty and administrators 
became fellows, either through a bid-
ding, process or assignment. At the 
same time, the fellowships took on a 
large ~umber of citizens from New 
Haven to enhance town/gown rela-
tions, and others outside Yale called 
associate fellows. Pierson said, "The 
fellowships have lost some of their in-
timacy, curiosity and good will. 
Numbers change you," Three years 
later the Council of Masters voted to 
abolish the Mandatory Rule. Current-
ly the masters are attempting to cut the 
size of their fellowships to 50 to 60 
from an average total of 162. 

Throughout their existence, "The 
chief value of the fellowships has been 
in gathering a cross-disciplinary group 
of faculty," said Frederick Pottle, Ster- , 
ling Professor Emeritus of English and , 
a fellow of Davenport since 1933. The . 
fellowships also allow faculty of dif-· 
ferent departments to build friend-
ships. Winks said, "It creates an 
awareness of where other fields are go-
ing." He added, "I found what I 
learned through my relationships with 
the fellows the most valuable part of 
Yale. My membership in the fellow-
ship.made me stay here." If one seeks 
tangible benefits, one fmds that many 
a lecture, many an entire course, as 
well as teaching methods, have been 
generated in the interaction of fellows 
of a college. 

Masters plan for their fellowships to 
meet regularly. In most colleges week-
ly or bi-weekly receptions or dinners 
bring fellows together; in colleges such 
as Ezra Stiles and Saybrook, a fellow 
may give a talk to the rest of the 
fellowship after dinner. About once a 
month, Master William Bennett of 
Silliman College invites a visitor from 
outside Yale or sometimes arranges a 
concert for his fellows. Many fellows 
lunch together at the colleges. Henry 
Turner, master of Davenport College, 
uses his fellows to advise on such mat-


--- Page 27 ---

Lers as selection of guest-speakers for 
the college. Often a fellow establishes 
the contact with the speaker or group. 

To the extent that fellows participate 
in college life, the fellowships function 
well; however, only about one-quarter 
of all fellows near Yale attend fellows 
gatherings. On the other hand, the 
masters would not have space enough 
if all showed up. 

Many of the fellows themselves are 
not satisfied with the program. Some 
faculty fellows do not feel that the in-
clusion of non-faculty enhances the 
fellowship. Winks explained, however, 
that administrators, staff and faculty 
will operate more successfully if they 
can empathize with each other, as they 
must function side-by-side in the 
university. The addition of non-faculty 
to the fellowships must affect the-pro-
gram's functioning for the faculty and 
the students- the intended benefic-
iaries of the college system. Winks 
predicts that the question of who 
should be a fellow "will come under 
much discussion" as their numbers are 
decreased. 

· 

Yale's size sometimes obstructs 
faculty-student interaction, and the 
fellowships offer an opportunity for ex-
change. The form that ·that e~change 
should take has been the subject of 
discussion since the inception of the 
college system. In 1933 some ad-
ministrators, such as President James 
Rowland Angell and Provost Charles 
Seymour, thought the colleges should 
have a 
definite educational · func-
tion- for example, the fellows might 
take· on tutorial roles, slightly resembl· 
ing the fellows at Oxford. Ultimately 
the fellows did not become tutors 
because the colleges . never became the 
center of teaching at Yale. 

. 

Cutrently a fellow might teach a co1· 
lege seminar, and the college pays him, 
but the college seminar program is not 
solely for the fellows. Fellows also ad· 
vise students in their college formally 
as freshman or departmental advisors. 
On the whole, however, fellow-student 
contact 
is 
informal, 
and rather 
minimal. 

Hope for Interaction 

In a fer' colleges, a strong effort is 
made to bring students and fellows 
together. Some fellows participate in 
college organizations, such as the 
seminar committee, intramural teams 
and language tables in the dining halls. 
Many colleges feature a "Fellowof the 
Week" whom students join for lunch or 
dinner. 

In Berkeley College the program is 
more elaborate: several meals with a 
fellow are scheduled within the week, 
and table 
tents provide a 
3hort 
biography of the fellow. More general-
ly, all Berkeley fellows are listed in a 
directory that notes also their profes-
sional field and hobbies, and they 
stand available to advise students over. 
the telephone. Winks often calls upon 
associate fellows to help seniors find 
jobs. 

In Ezra Stiles College 
on one 
weekend the fellows invite students to 
their homes for dinner. Bennett says he 
tries to arrange for "common ground" 
for fellows and students of Silliman. 
He hosts a "chamber music brunch" in 
his house every other week; students 
and fellows bring their appetites and 
musical abilities. Silliman fellows and 
Fellows at play 
"Students and fellows seem 
mutually terrified of sitting 
down with each other at the 
lunch tables." 
students exhibit their work in the col-
lege's art gallery. They also meet in 
Silliman's darkroom and at dinner par-
ties at the master's house. 

"Find the Fellows" brings Calhoun 
College fellows and students together. 
Three years ago Calhoun obtained 
$12,500 for fellow-student functions in 
a contest for that gift, which had been 
earmarked for improving residential 
college life. Calhoun receives $500 a 
year for 25 years, and the fellows and 
the college council match those funds. 
The committee, led by Kirk Hughes 
'84, sought to use its $1,500 budget to 
promote "meaningful discourse" 
among students and fellows. Hughes' 
ideal is to see close relationships 
evolve: "Everyone needs a mentor," he 
said. 

Like Bennett, he provides common 
ground on which students and fellows 
interact. Several times each term, a 
group of about 15, composed of 
roughly equal numbers of fellows and 
students, attend a play or concert or 
some event that is "entertaining but 
also has pith." 

The program works well, for it 
prompts "dialogue," not merely "con-
tact." Student-faculty discussion is 
"brought down to the vernacular," 
Hughes said, from the lofty, imper-
sonal rhetoric that can characterize 
teacher-student conferences. "Find the 
Fellows" also 
provides lunch at 
j Calhoun and a bottle of wine for a 
..., fellow and student to get" to know one 
~ another further. 

" 

These programs operate well. But 
~e~ they are few. Students, fellows and 
.n 
masters agree that lack of time thwarts 
1; 
the fellowships. Many faculty mem-
..., bers, like Robert Contreras, a Daven-
port fellow, spend their hours not 
given to class work in "research and be-
ing with the family." McLaughlin said, 
«The normal Yale professor is occupied 
with his work, and students are not 
lazy either." As Harold Morowitz, 
master of Pierson College said, "The 
problem is how to get fellows to con-
sider their efforts toward the college as 
significant as those toward their. work." 

Also, in an effort to economiZe, the 
colleges now charge fellows a discount 
rate of 65 per cent to eat in the col-
leges, whereas they formerly h:'"d been 
able to dint> free of charge. 


13 WHITNEY (near Trumbull) 
NEW HAYae· 5e2·1252 
No extra charge for 
dinners put up to take out. 
Genuine Cantonlse Cooking 

Near Broadway, WMI/ey 
787·9697 140 Howe Street 
140 HOWE STREET 

A Good Idea 
deserves a 
Goodcopy ... 
• OFFSET PRINTING 
• XEROX 9500 - OFFSET 
QUAUTY FOR 
RESUMES & THESES 
• ART, DESIGN & 
CALUGRAPHY 
• TYPING & TYPESETTING 
• SPIRAL OR VELO BINDING 
• TELECOPYING 
GaoCJ,ofly 
Pt\n inq 
Cen er 
202 College Street 
(203) 624-0194 



**Title: Some Wear Alligators Others .. THE YALE RING**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Some Wear Alligators 
Others .. 
THE YALE RING 
• 
• Sale in Yale Station 
after Christmas Break. 
• Tell Mummy and Daddy 
you want to order one. 
PAY ABLE BY BURSAR BILL 
For juJher infomuztion, call Bruce Kent at 203-432-4667 
Monday evenings, 7:30-9:00 
28 The New Journal/December 1, 1982 
change, far fewer fellows eat in the col-
lege dining halls, where student-fellow 
contact most likely takes place. And 
when they do come, as Morowitz said, 
"Students and fellows seem mutually 
terrified of sitting down with each 
other at the lunch tables." 


The fellowships do benefit some 
faculty and some students greatly, at 
times. McLaughlin said, "The fellow-
ship is good for those who want it; they 
have the opportunity" for interaction . 
Most masters are discontent. Von 
Staden said that "the fellowship is 
working reasonably well" toward the 
goal of faculty interaction. But "in 
fostering contact between fellows and 
students, it falls far short of being 
realized." He stressed the value of the 
program: "With even one goal rea-
lized, the fellowships would be im-
mensely worthwhile"; however, he said 
he is "not satisfied." 


In a speech commemorating the lay-
ing of the corner-stone for Ezra Stiles 
College in February, 1961, Professor 
Richard B. Sewall, first master of Ezra 
Stiles, articulated the unique potential 
of interaction among faculty, among 
students, and between the two: "This, I 
take it, is the noblest work of these col-
leges: to facilitate conversation- the 
meeting of young with young, old with 
old, and (hardest of all) young with old 
... 'The scholarly life,' said (Professor 
Alfred North] Whitehead, 'is by nature 
solitary; it is our task to make it com-
panionable."' 


Most masters consider the "conver-
sation" to be inadequate, but the 
nature of mutual, interested interac-
tion precludes efforts to force it. 
McLaughlin said, "The artifical at-
mosphere of most fellow-and-student 
functions defeats them." Some believe 
that decreasing 
the size of the 
fellowships might envigorate them. 
Morowitz said, "Until the fellowships 
are smaller, more interested groups, 
they are not likely to achieve their 
goals." Yet the small fellowships of the 
1930s seemed no more successful than 
the contemporary ones. The true hope 
for the fellowships is probably in the 
few bright programs that inspire 
others . 
Katherine &obey, a junior in Davenport, is a 
regular contributor to TNJ.


**Title: Profile Anthony Appiah: God's natural aristocrat**
**Author: Kathleen Cleaver**
**Page number(s): 30**

Profile 
Anthony Appiah: God's natural aristocrat 
Kathleen Cleaver 
Appiah on the Green 
Before the harp recital began, the 
guests at a fashionable party in a 
Gloucestershire home were convers-
ing over drinks one evening in 1971. 
A retired British officer, dressed in 
tweeds, ambled over to the tall, 
brown-skinned young man he did not 
recognize. 

"I say, old chap, do you speak 
English?" he bluntly inquired. 

"Why don't you ask my grand-
mother," Anthony Appiah answered 
curtly, in his impeccable upper class 
British accent. 

"Who, may I ask, rs your grand-
mother?" he rejoined weakly. 

"Lady Cripps," Appiah replied, as 
he turned to listen to the music. 

The retired officer stood there as-
tounded. Lady Isabel Cripps was the 
most distinguished person at the par-
ty. As the widow of Sir Stafford 
Cripps, who became the Labour Par-
ty's Chancellor of the Exchequer 
following World War II, Lady Cripps 
was known throughout the British 
Commonwealth. Sir Stafford Cripps 
had been a vigorous advocate of in-
dependence for Britain's colonial 
possessions as far back as the 1930s, 
an outspoken Christian socialist, and 
during World War II had been Bri-
tain's Ambassador to the 
Soviet 
Union. Carrying on the tradition of 
30 The New Journal/December 1, 1982 
outstanding public leadership that 
had marked his family for genera-
tions, Cripps made a powerful impact 
on British politics during his lifetime. 

Last year, Anthony Appiah (pro-
nounced Ah-pee-ah), the surprising 
African at the cocktail party, became 
DUS of Yale's Afro-American Studies 
Program. A descendant of Asante 
kings and British lords, he reflects an 
elegant fusion of African and English 
culture in his scholarship, his per-
sonality, and even in the musical 
rhythm of his speech. He was th~ first 
African 
to 
receive 
a 
Ph.D. 
in 
philosophy from Cambridge. He was 
the first African to be inducted into a 
secret society at Cambridge. And 
when he taught at the University of 
Ghana, 
he was the first 
faculty 
member to lecture in traditional 
Asante dress. But here at Yale, he 
regularly takes t_ea at the Elizabethan 
Club and does his writing on a word 
processor. "Anthony is the best DUS 
in the history of the program," said 
Henry Louis "Skip" Gates, Professor 
of English and Afro-American 
Studies. "He brings a 
uniquely 
cosmopolitan blend of personal and 
educational experiences 
Afro-
American Studies, and he is the best 
person in this country doing work m 
African philosophy." 

''The Red Squire" 
Akroma-Ampin Kusi Kwame Appiah 
was born in London in 1954. He was 
the first child of Joe Appiah, an ardent 
agitator for African independence, and 
Peggy Cripps, the youngest daughter 
of Isabel and Stafford Cripps. Their 
wedding ir- London in 1953 made 
headlines around the world. The Ap-
piahs settled in Kumasi, the capital of 
the Asante kingdom in central Ghana, 
known as "the garden city of West 
Africa." A dynamic attorney, Joe Ap-
piah served in Prime Minister Kwame 
Nkrumah's first parliament, but his 
outspoken support for trade unions 
soon 
put him 
opposition 
Nkrumah. During the turbulent early 
days of Ghana's independence J oe Ap-
piah wound up in prison for his stand. 

Joe Appiah was still in prison in 
1962 when Queen Elizabeth and 
Prince Philip made a state visit to 
Ghana. One of the stops on the royal 
couple's tour was a hospital where An-
thony, eight years old at the time, hap-
pened to be a patient. Prince Philip 
greeted Anthony and told him to give 
his regards to Peggy Appiah. In-
furiated that the royalty had payed so 
much attention to Appiah's family, 
Nkrumah had 
Anthony's doctor 
deported. With her husband in jail and 
her younger daughters to look after, 
Peggy Appiah concluded it would be 
best to send Anthony off to England 
before another outrageous incident oc-
curred. She enrolled him in a small 
boarding school near her mother's 
home in the Gloucestershire coun-
tryside. 

Lady Cripps' cottage became Ap-
piah's second home. 
Until he 
graduated from Cambridge in 1975, 
Appiah spent his school years in 
England and his summers in Ghana. 
He became very close to his grand-
mother, and was surrounded by a large 
family of uncles, aunts and cousins 
who lived near his grandmother's 
village. The Cripps children had been 
socially ostracized by their neighbors 
who considered Sir Stafford Cripps, 
whom they dubbed "The Red Squire," 
a traitor to his class. 

Insulated within a close family both 
in Ghana and England, Appiah re-
mained largely unaware of racism until 
he reached 18. "Though there were 
episodes in my childhood in Ghana 
which were partly racial," he explained, 
"my experience- and this may simply 
have been because we were protected 
-was living in a home with a white 
inother and a black father and having 
friends who were European, African 
and Indian, and never thinking that 
was remotely strange." At Bryanston, 
the prestigious British 'public school' he 
attended, Appiah continued to be 
sheltered. 

Appiah's first extended stay in Lon-
don changed all that. After graduating 
from Bryanston, Appiah and a group 
of British and African classmates spent 
the summer in London preparing to 
stage the British premiere of a play 
about the 1960 assassination of Patrice 
Lumumba, the first Prime Minister of 
the Congo. "I suppose it was spending 
a lot of time in London with black 
Africans that made me somewhat 
aware for the first time that racism 



**Title: Anthony Appiah: A Life in Two Worlds**
**Author: Kathleen Cachoer**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
mattered," Appiah said. "It was cer-
tainly there all the time I was in 
England. I just wasn't in a position to 
notice it." 


The language of discrimination 
In the fall of 1972 Appiah entered 
Clare College at Cambridge to study 
medicine. He soon became the only 
male 
member of the Cambridge 
women's movement. It was then that 
the fundamental similarity between 
racism and sexism became apparent to 
him. 


Appiah has since become convinced 
that discrimination is not just a matter 
of how people treat each other- it has 
to do with language. "As a philosopher 
of language," said Appiah. "I am in-
terested in the degree to which it is 
reasonable to try 
to change the 
language- those facts about the way the 
language works, for example, and how 
the masculine nouns are used as a sort 
of indefinite form. I used to think it 
was silly to spend a lot of time fussing 
about the language, because the real 
issues won't change because you stop 
talking a certain way. But now I think 
that is not true. The effort to change 
the language is, in itself, liberating to a 
degree." 


"Everybody knows we don't want to 
use terms of abuse which are sexist or 
racist," he continued. "But while 'col-
ored' doesn't have to be a term of 
abuse, it does have built into it the idea 
that being white is the normal state of 
human beings, and that everyone else 
is 'colored,' that is, yellow people are 
'colored yellow,' as opposed to white. It 
is the way that language appropriates 
certain things as the normal, and then 
automatically consigns you to the 
periphery if you're not a man or not 
white." 


But the use of language goes beyond 
ascribing inferiority to women and 
ethnic minorities. "The important 
thing to bear in mind in thinking about 
sexism and racism," Appiah explained, 
"is that although the key issue in both 
is injustice, it is not the case that non-
whites are the only people who suffer 
from racism, or that non-males are the 
only people who suffer from sexism. 
It's restrictive to have a certain form of 
masculinity imposed on you just 
because you're male. And though I 
think the worst aspects of sexism 
damage women most, and the worst 
aspects of racism damage black people 
more than they damage white people, 
still, it does damage males and whites. 
So they have an interest in liberating 
themselves from it too." 


A double first 
At Cambridge, Appiah met "Skip" 
Gates, who had just graduated from 
Yale and had won a fellowship to study 
at Clare College. The two became 
friends immediately. Gates brought 
Appiah in touch with the radical 
upheavals which had shaken America 
since the 1960s. The Bobby Seale trial, 
the May Day rallies, and the union 
strike had all taken place during Gates' 
undergraduate years at Yale. He and 
Appiah spent many hours together, 
sometimes staying up 
all 
night, 
discussing the situation facing 
Africans and Afro-Americans from the 
perspective of the black power strug-
gles raging in the United States. 


"Anthony rarely attended lectures, 
which were not required at Cam-
bridge," Gates recalled. "Instead, he 
would stay up all night reading, or 
talking, then sleep most of the day. He 
enjoyed an active social life. He was 
very popular-witty, handsome, char-
ming- the life of the party. Regardless 
of what Anthony did, it was never 
flamboyant 
or offensive. 
His 
philosophy tutor called him 'God's 
natural aristocrat."' 


Appiah nearly failed his medical ex-
ams his first year at Cambridge. Then 
he switched to philosophy. He became 
the only philosophy student in his 
graduating class to win what at Cam-
bridge is called a 'double first'- highest 
possible marks in both second and 
third year finals. After graduating 
from Cambridge, Appian returned to 
Ghana to do a year of national service. 
He had no clear idea of what he would 
do until the day he received a telegram 
from Cambridge telling him he'd got-
ten a double first. "I had never con-
sidered being an academic philospher," 
Appiah said. "but with that piece of 
paper I felt I could ask for a job 
teaching philosophy at the University 
of Ghana." During the year he spent 
teaching, Appiah startled both the 
faculty and the students by wearing 
traditional Asante dress while he lec-
tured, something no one had ever done 
before. 


In 1978 Appiah came to Yale as a 
Special Student after receiving a Ph.D. 
in 
philosophy at Cambridge. 
A 
graduate student in one of Appiah's 
seminars, 
Dominic 
Parisi, 
remembered him well. "Sometimes I 
would see him during the day and it 
was obvious he'd been up all night 
reading," Parisi said. "For the most 
part, he was a quiet, introspective, 
reflective person, very British in style. 
He has a command of the English 
language like a character in a 19th cen-
tury novel. Hearing him talk about 
anything is like listening to music. But 
his appeal as a teacher was not so much 
in what he said, but in his presence, his 
warmth, and his genuine interest in his 
students." 


Appiah's work 
Appiah is now an Assistant Professor 
of Philosophy and Afro-American 
Studies, a combination which many 
people initially find perplexing. But 
Appiah has the rare ability to explain 
the complex and obscure in clear, 
precise language. His work, like his 
personality, is a perfect balance of so 
many diverse elements. "The thing 
that ties together a large part of what I 
do in philosophy," Appiah explained, 
"is a concern with understanding 
cultures other than our own, inter-
preting cultures to each other, and 
understanding language within 
a 
culture. And that is what philosophers 
call the 'theory of meaning.' How do 
these inert shapes and sounds come to 
acquire meaning, and what are we do-
ing with them? Because language pro-
vides the medium in which we conduct 
our discussions about serious ques-
tions, the philosophy of language is 
useful in that it allows us to sharpen 
those tools and keep clear about how to 
use 
them 
without endangering 
ourselves." 


Appiah, who grew up speaking 
English and Twi, the language of the 
Asante, finds his linguistic flexibility to 
his advantage 
as 
philosopher. 
"Although most of the work 
philosophy has been done in a small 
subset of Indo-European languages," 
he said, "some of the features of Twi 
which are different from 
those 
languages are very helpful in escaping 
philosophical error -I think a lot of the 
puzzles and worries about 'existence' 
in the Western tradition are hard to fall 
into in a language in which it is dif-
ficult to talk of existence as a concept. 
You can talk about what there is-but 
the emphasis is on being a thing, or be-
ing a person. But, on the whole, I 
think the abstract notion of existence 
has produced more muddle than in-
sight whether in the Latin, or Greek, 
or modern European discussions." 


One of the problems in African 
philosophy that Appiah is working on is 
finding a way to articulate the way the


Asante view the relationships between 
gods, spirits and humans. "I am in-
terested in the theoretical questions of 
how one goes about the process of 
transforming an understanding of a set 
of alien concepts." 


The Asante understanding of the 
relationship between the mind and the 
body, for example, is different from 
the common-sense view in the West. 
"For the last 300 years in the West," 
Appiah explained, "people have been 
trying to tear the mind from the body 
in various unsatisfactory ways. The 
standard Western concept is 
that 
minds and bodies are pretty distinct 
sorts of things, and that minds can ex-
ist without bodies, as in the conception 
of the soul. I happen to think that this 
is a pretty incoherent notion. One of 
the interesting things about the tradi-
tional 
philosophical 
views of the 
Asante about minds and bodies is that 
they don't have this dualistic view. 
They see them as very much bound up 
with one another." 


In Twi, many of the words for the 
emotions express this relationship. 
"For example," Appiah said, "'I'm 
angry' is literally translated 'my eyes 
are red.' That is, the emotion words 
are tied into their physical manifesta-
tions. The concepts people ordinarily 
use to understand each other are dif-
ferent, and they need to be examined 
and understood." 


Models of the mind 
Elizabeth Archibald, Acting Dean of 
Morse College, came to Yale, like Ap-
piah, several years after graduating 
from Cambridge. A native Briton, Ar-
chibald is intrigued by the ease with 
which Appiah has adapted to Yale 
while preserving his own style. "An-
thony is in essence like an 18th century 
country gentleman," she said. "He is so 
gracious, so unhurried. But yet, there 
is a paradox: he has a 
computerized 
telephone. And I am surprised at how 
adept he 
is 
at using 
the 
word 
processor." 


Appiah is a scholar who is fascinated 
by the computer. He does all of his 
writing on a word processor (he is cur-
rently at work on three books) because 
he finds it far more congenial to think-
ing than a typewriter. "Computers 
eliminate the drudge work that other-


wise you would have to get people to 
do," said Appiah. "But what is most in-
teresting is that because we have had to 
build computers to duplicate things 
people do, we have learned in the pro-
cess things about how the mind works." 


Appiah sees the computer as a model 
of the relationship between the mind 
and the brain, 
between the 
psychological and the physiological. 
"There is a difference in the way an 
engineer understands a computer and 
the way a programmer understands it. 
It is not the engineer's way, but the 
programmer's way that is interesting 
to me. The machine illustrates how 
there can be two radically different 
ways of understanding the same 
thing." 


The computer, in effect, has both a 
mind and a brain. Appiah explains that 
while a computer engineer is concern-
ed with the physical hardware of the 
machine (as a neurosurgeon might try 
to understand the biochemistry of the 
brain), a computer programmer must 
consider the software's psychologi-
cal process (as a 
psychologist 
might 
analyze the inner workings of the 
mind). An engineer and a programmer 
might confront the same problem in a 
computer and describe it in completely 
different ways. 


But, Appiah cautions, "It is very im-
portant to understand what kind of 
model the computer is, and to be very 
clear that it is only a model. Only some 
of its features are relevant to an 
understanding of the brain. In par-
ticular, I think that the computer 
model doesn't really tell us anything 
about the relationship between beliefs 
and the world. What it does tell us 
about is the relationships between 
beliefs and other beliefs. The computer 
is the only man-made machine where 
the relationship between the different 
levels of describing how it works are so 
incredibly rich." 


For Anthony Appiah, it is the most 
intricate, the most complex aspects of 
language- cultural 
language, 
philosophical language, technological 
language- that are so compelling. 
"Philosophy is complicated," he said. 
"That's what makes it fun."


**Title: Theatre**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Theatre 
The· late-night acrobats 
l 
ple coming in to breakfast," Schwa·rtz 
~ su_ggests .. 
t 
"Well, when IS breakfast?" someone 
z 
else asks. 

Hanging lights from the rafter s
At 5:30 a.m. the dining hall looks like 
Grendel has just left. Tables are over-
turned, chatrs are stacked like thrones, 
'coffee is gone in take-out cups, and on-
ly a cold French fry is left in the paper 
sack. On the hardwOod floor lies a 
Ked leather, yellow leather 
Bitter bluebirds bear it better 
Sally Seashore saw a sweater 
What's the weather? Go ask Heather 
\...ap(am \...runch drank too much punch 
And who knows what he ate ... It's ume· 
to ENUNCIATE! 
tape measure, and there are coats, 
But now it's time to put the dining 
emptied liters of coke, newspapers, 
hall back. It never goes back right. 
textbooks, sweat shirts, colored candy 
There are always too many tables and 
wrappers. Lengths of lighting cable 
even more chairs. Six around a square 
hang from the ceiling and pile on the 
table? Sure-if the chairs fit it's all 
floor like measured portions of black 
right. "Setting up dining halls can be 
spaghetti. People on scaffolding are 
one of the worst experiences that a 
trying to wind it all up. 
human can endure in his lifetime," says 
"We've reached the end!" someone 
John Hart, another veteran techie. 
yells from the top of the scaffolding. 
"But setting up a dining hall with Mark 
They have worked their way back to 
Schwartz can almost be a pleasurable 
the metal control box, drawing 
experience." Right now Schwartz ilt 
together and bundling cable along the 
singing. "Counting the cars on the 
ceiling. It all lands in a confusion on 
New Jersey Turnpike ... " 
top of the box. Remie Constable, a 
Someone hides the last chair behind 
veteran lighting person, makes sense of 
the set. At 6:30 a.m. they can go 
it all. Soon she slides a knob up the 
anywhere. "Okay, when's breakfast?" 
dimmer board and a light shoots across 
Constable asks as she stretches .out on 
the stage. 
top of a table not far from the toaster. 

There is 
no escaping reaction. 
Schwartz and Hart and the rest of the 
Whistles, shouts, claps. Someone sings 
crew follow her example. 
a 
verse that the play's conductor 
"I think we should arrange ourselves 
thought up to get actors to enunciate: 
artistically over the tables for the pea-
"Not for another hour." 
"Yeah, we're in dynamite shape." 
"Well, I'm not waiting for it." 
"Look, there are two gels here." 
"Well, leave them there. They are 
probably happy." 
"I'm afraid if I go to sleep now, I 
won't wake up for my 9:30 class. 
"You do theatre-what did you take 
a 9:30 class for?" · 
"It's a required course in the major." 
"Wrong major." 
"You know, if I faint, I don't think 
I'd feel the difference." 

Dining hall employees have been in 
the kitchen for the past 4-5 minutes. 
They are cooking eggs, blintze!': and 
potato-corn fritters (potatoes and corn 
were both served as vegetables at din-
ner last night). An employee sets out 
bowls of peanut butter. raisins and 
orange marmalade. Another sets out a 
tray of cereals, carefully camouflaging 
the Captain Crunch with tall boxes of 
Cheerios, AU-Bran and Grape-Nuts. 
The Captain Crunch always goes first. 
They place coffee and boiling water on 
the warmers. Steam for a new day. 
Hart rolls over on his table. "Why do 
we do this to ourselves?" 
"Forty-two," Schwartz says, "the 
answer is forty-two." Everyone agrees. 
This is the show behind every show. 
These are the techies- the technicians, 
electricians, lighting' people, set peo-
ple. They make theatre at Yale hap-
pen, and keep on happening. They 
hang the fresnels, lekos and parcans. 
They put on the bam door, top hats 
and gels. They talk in two-fers and 
three-fers, 25 and 50-foot lengths of 
cable. They know that a "swivel 
cheeseburrow" isn't a ritual Danish 
dance step, and that a wrench isn't just 
for fighting street crime. Techies walk 
in the ceiling supports and hang from 
scaffolding and extension ladders. 
They are late-night acrobats at practice 
whose performances come in colorful 
shapes of light sprayed across the stage 
of another Yale show. 
Mark Schwartz, a Yale graduate 
and a grad student in the Philosophy 
department, has done countless shows 
at Yale. 
"Last semester was my 


**Put-In: A Yale Mystery**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
before everything was set," he says. 
"The lights went down and Scott 
(Freiman] got up to start conducting. 
Nothing happened. Then someone 
realized that no one had bothered to 
cue the actors." 


Remie Constable's recollections of 
Superstar aren't so clear. "I literally don't 
remember how that show got put-in," 
she says. "I just sat on the stage 
hallucinating- I had a temperature of 
about 103. I lost my voice." During 
focusing everyone learned how tu read 
Remie's hand signals." 


Schwartz has had analogous ex-
perience. "Most of the time," he says, 
"you get a second wind, and a third 
wind, and a fourth wind. But then 
sometimes you just feel horrible. rve 
had the experience of waking up on a 
dining hall table after a night of put-in. 
I wonder 'where am I?'- and rm freez-
ing. 'Did everything get done while I 
was asleep?'" 


"There's a certain point where you 
just laugh at things," says Constable. 
"You might cry if you thought about it, 
but you're too tired- so you laugh." 


People are coming in to breakfast, 
and they don't have wrenches in their 
pockets. 
They are also 
freshly 
showered. They read over notes or try 
to cram for language vocabulary ex-
ams. lch kann nicht recordar las 
palabras bien ce matin. The eggs this 
morning are scrambled. Someone has 
found the Captain Crunch and now it's 
almost gone. A dining hall employee 
grudgingly brings out another box. 


Hart looks around. "You know," he 
says, "it's strange having all these peo-
ple eating in the dining hall.,. 


Schwartz sings another verse of 
"Enunciation": 
Jelly, bellies, belly, jello 
Jenny ate some and turned yellow 
Mother Manha's feeling mellow 
Hamlet, MacBeth and Othello 
True-the tune is simple and the lyrics 
aren't too great 
It's time to ENUNCIATE! 


Hart joins in on the last line. "Well, 
even if other people don't appreciate 
us," be says, "we appreciate ourselves." 


**Research Discovering nothing**
**Author: Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

which science has built to explain how 
we thought the universe was struc-
tured. "It means we've guessed wrong," 
he said. 


. The discovery 
Profe11or Augustus Oemler 
A.~us .Oemler , Jr. 
discovered 
nothing last year after six years of slow 
observation and calculation. And he 
made national headlines for it. The 
"nothing" Oemler discovered was an 
empty region of space a thousand 
times the volume of anything previous-
ly known or predicted by conventional 
theories. Oemler's "nothing" tlas forced 
astrophysicists to change their ways of 
thinking. 


"Vast 'Hole' in Space Appears 
~.., 
Defy Theories" was the headline of the 
article on the front page of The New 
York Times which brought the discovery 
to the attention of the general public. 
The hole was estimated to be 300 
million light-years wide (as compared 
to the 100,000 light-year width of the 
Milky Way galaxy). A volume of that 
magnitude would typically be filled 
with- about 2,000 galaxies. 


Until this observation, scientists 
believed that the universe was basically 
smooth and that any incongruities 
were on a very small scale. This notion 
had been fundamental to the theories 
of the evolution of the universe. Only 
recently have we been able to test this 
principle. Oemler explained that his 
observation drew attention because it 
challenges the foundations of theories 


Oemler, an assistant professor of 
astronomy at Yale, began work in 1.1175 
on a large scale survey of the distribu-
tion of galaxies in space, according to 
Professor Charles Larson, chairman of 
the astronomy department. Oemler 
collaborated with Robert Kirschner of 
the University of Michigan, Paul 
Schechter of the Kitt Peak National 
Observatory, and Steven Shectman of 
the Mount Wilson Observatory. The 
original study was aimed, Oemler 
said, at looking at the distribution of 
matter throughout the universe. The 
researchers ended up stumbling upon 
nothit.g. 


The work leading up 
to the 
discovery of tho empty region was slow 
.and deliberate. The researchers would 
take a "core sample" of the sky, Oemler 
explained, focusing their attention 
through the telescope on a small area of 
space in a particular direction. "We 
looked for all galaxies brighter than a 
certain limit which we had set and then 
photographed them. We measured 
their spectra and looked for the Dop-
pler shifts of the galaxies. They are 
almost invariably moving away from 
us and we can compute their velocity 
using the Doppler shifts. We can then 
figure out their distance from their 
velocity. We also know their direction, 
and once we know these things we can 
put a galaxy at a spot in space," 
Oemler said. 


The group found three fields in the 
northern sky in which there "weren't 
any galaxies," said Oemler. The fields 
were located directionally near the con-
stellation Bootes but far beyond the 
constellation in distance from the 
earth. · 


In order to verify their observations, 
the researchers have gone back to the 
telescopes and are looking "at several 
hundred areas in that sector of the sky 
to see if we can find anything in it," 
Oemler said. So far they have not 
found anything, but they still have not 
located all the borders of the region, 
either. 


Meanwhile, 
theorists have gone 
back to the drawing board to try to 
reconcile the discovery with theories 
based on the principle of a smooth 
universe, one in which all matter is 
distributed evenly throughout. Scien· 
tists recognized that this principle was 
not entirely true, because absolute 
homogeneity would rule out galaxies, 
stars, planets and man. On a larger 
scale, 
though, 
they felt that the 
universe was basically smooth .. 


Commonly accepted theories prior 
to the discovery held that the in-
congruous "lumps" of matter that were 
present in the universe were made 
lumpier by gravity over time, and in 
this manner the planets and stars were 
formed. These came together to form 
galaxies, and these galaxies clustered 
into their present configuratioQs. The 
original incongruities were thought to 
build up gradually in a very ofderly 
process of clumping. Thus, scientists 
could use the amount of incongruity in 
the present universe to deduce what 
the universe originally looked like. 


The pancake theory 


Until the discovery of the hole, obser-
vations of incongruity in the universe 
generally upheld building-up theories. 
For example, big bang radiation is 
distributed very evenly throughout the 
universe, according to Oemler. This 
gives a picture of a relatively young 
universe that h~ built up its structure. 
The observatioll of the void, though, 
raises the question of"how the universe 
got so inc;ongruous so fast," Oemler 
said, 


Widely accepted theories can't 
answer this question, so many theorists 
are re-examining a proposal made in 
the Soviet Union about 20 years ago 
and known as the Zeldovich pancake 
theory. "Rather than the dull, slow pic· 
ture [of the building-up theories), this 
theory gives a violent, dramatic pic-
ture. The basics of the theory hold that 
at the beginning of the universe there 
were giant clouds of gas with slight in· 
congruities," such as small irreg· 
Ulariues in the density o( the clouds or 
slight mward monon on one side or the 
other, 
Oemler explained. 


Gravity 
magnified these irregularities to the 
point where the clouds collapsed into 


Oemler's "nothlng" has 
forced astrophysicists to 
change their ways of think· 
lng. 


pancalte-shaped masses of gas- very 
thin but very large. These "paricakes" 
then broke apart into clusters of galax-
ies, which fragmented into _galaxies1 
which ~en fragmented into stars and 
planets. This fragmentation would be 
much less orderly than the clumping in 
conventional theories, and thus allows 
for the observed irregularity in the 
distribution of galaxies. 


The pancake theory is upheld by 
other kinds of observations. For exam-
ple, Oemler suggested that recently 
observed long strings or sheets of 
galaxies (as opposed to the normally 
observed clusters of galaxies) are more 
easily explained by this theory. 


H owever, 
the Zeldovich pancake 
theory is far from the definitive 
answer. "There is a large amount of 
theoretical work being done on the 
structure of the univers_e," Oemler 
t.:ommented. "Our observation is just 
one p1ece of information. People's 
ideas are shifting around a lot. The 
pancake theory seems to be promising, 
but in a couple of years it may be im-
possible to account for newer observa-
tions using that theory, or tliose who 
are trying to develop the theory may 
get nowhere. And then they might go 
charging off' in another direction." 


Despite all the stir, Oernler down-
plays the signific~ce ·of his discovery. 
H e is quick to poi~t out the possibility 
that the "hole could be full of'stuff and 
as long as it doesn't shine, we'd never 
see it." He emphasizes, however, that 
scientists can only measure what can 
be observed. In the case of astronomy, 
that means the things that shine in the 
heavens. "We just have to hope that 
what we see is a good indicator of what 
is there." OemJer a:lso indicates that it 
is still really too early t<;> say what the 
full significance of the discovery is, and 
that other observations must be taken 
into account. 


Even in light of these possible limita-
tions, the discovery of nothing has 
changed, at least for now, the direction 
of astrophysics. The "hole" that Oemler 
and his colleagues stumbled upon in 
far dis~ant spate revealed a hole of 
comparable magnitude in man's ex-
Planation of his universe . 


PICTURES SO GOOD, YOU WON'T BELIEVE 
IT ONLY TAKES AN HOUR 
FOR QUALITY, SPEED AND CONVENIENCE 
COME TO: 
PHOTO 
PRINTS 
While You Wait! 
Photo Prints 
930 Chapel St. (corner of Temple) 
Phone 624-2599 
one hour service available for C11Q-126-135 
color prints and reprints 
we also offer fast service on other work: 
blw, enlargements, copy work and custom services 


Come Uptown for Sunday Brunch with 
Champagne and Plano Entertainment 
• Homesty1e Italian Food 
• Hearty Drinks 
• Lunch and Dinner 
• Plano Bar 
• Late night menu 
• Rathskeller 
~ 
~~just sltMt of lb. • -Patricia Brook , N. Y. Tilrws 
387 -()5()() 



**Title: Yoi{ err dl~t:Jt::- JE/f:;cy 5"r/l/l£/lrFs**
**Author: ~a~_;r**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yoi{ err 
dl~t:Jt::- JE/f:;cy 5"r/l/l£/lrFs By ~a~_;r 
11111111111111 
---· rA~i ~~~4~ s~r?- a~ /t'?', /,ot[_ ~ r/~ 
-r~x, E: 
A,t4'~ ~~ 
pr>~~~d4tre/r~~ ttwrr-1 
CC>-C>~ 
k~~c/b/~ .

