Publication date: 02/17
Volume 49, Issue 4

**Can Yale Be A Sanctuary?**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal and Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On the night of January 29, 2017, a crowd of nearly 1,500 people gathered in front of Sterling Memorial Library. The previous week, President Donald Trump had issued a dizzying array of executive orders targeting refugees and immigrants. The people had come to protest. The word SOLIDARITY, projected over Sterling’s façade, illuminated the old stones with a call to action. Swaddled in winter coats and holding candles, students, professors, and New Haven residents young and old stood shoulder-to-shoulder. 

Yale sophomore Alejandra Corona Ortega took the microphone and began to speak. She said the recent presidential election had made her question whether she belonged at Yale—that, as an undocumented immigrant, she’d begun to wonder if the promises of America were not for her. Was an America that would elect Trump a country that could ever support her?

Her voice rose as she addressed Trump’s recent threats to increase deportations and withhold funding from sanctuary cities like New Haven, which has pledged to limit its cooperation with federal immigration enforcement actions.

“He, and people like him, will never stop until we are too afraid or overwhelmed to speak up,” she said. “Or worse, too indifferent to do anything. But nights like these give me the strength to not let fear seep in.”

Corona Ortega, a New Haven local who graduated as valedictorian of the Sound School in 2015, continued amid applause. She’s become accustomed to speaking about her immigration status — she “came out” as undocumented last spring at a rally for Bernie Sanders on the New Haven Green.


For liberal arts institutions, the Trump presidency — evidently hostile to dissent of any kind, fearful of multiculturalism, skeptical of experts and even the notion of truth — poses a range of confounding challenges. Few are more urgent than how to respond to Trump’s immigration policies. How far will Yale go to protect those who study and teach here? How much power does this wealthy, elite institution have to resist the tide of national policy? And how does the institution’s location in New Haven — the country’s first “sanctuary city”— affect the answers to these questions?

In the uneasy first month of the Trump presidency, there are few answers. But activism has escalated significantly at Yale and in New Haven, forcing these issues to the fore. Since Trump’s inauguration on January 20, city residents and students have taken to the streets and to the Green, many protests organized primarily by New Haven organizations like Unidad Latina en Acción (ULA). Almost all have been direct responses to Trump’s immigration policies. 

In his first week in office, Trump issued four executive orders targeting immigrants. On January 27, he banned refugees worldwide from entering the United States. He temporarily halted immigration for ninety days for all people from the predominantly Muslim countries Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and Yemen, a ban which has since been frozen by federal courts. He ordered the construction of a 2,000-mile-long wall along the Mexican border. He announced plans for a weekly online list of crimes committed by undocumented immigrants. And he re-enacted the “Secure Communities” program, started under George W. Bush and continued under Obama until 2014. The program requires the FBI, which routinely runs the fingerprints of arrested individuals against its own databases, to also run them against databases maintained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) —sometimes leading to deportation or other legal consequences.

“Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States,” the executive order most directly concerning to Corona Ortega and other undocumented Yale affiliates, expands the discretionary power of individual ICE officers. It also broadens the definition of “criminal” to target nearly every undocumented immigrant for deportation. The university does not collect official numbers, but the Yale Daily News reported in 2013 that there were at most twenty undocumented students on campus. This year, Ramon Garibaldo Valdez, an undocumented first-year graduate student who has advocated for undocumented students, estimated the number to be somewhere around thirty. 

The flurry of action has left undocumented Yale students bracing for the worst. Corona Ortega and others who have no legal status worry that their long-held fears of deportation could come true. Other students, like junior Rafael*, obtained a Social Security Number and a driver’s license through the Deferred Action Childhood Arrival Program (DACA), a program Obama created in 2013 via executive order. Rafael can drive and work legally in the U.S., and he feels safe to a certain extent. But “DACA-mented” students face a new threat to their sense of security, too: Throughout his campaign, Trump threatened to end DACA entirely. 

Some undocumented Yalies, like Corona Ortega, have turned to activism. Others, like Rafael, fear talking publicly about their immigration status. Because Yale is the wealthiest and most powerful institution with which they are affiliated, many are looking to the university for support in this moment of uncertainty. 

Yale has taken a strong public stance against one aspect of Trump’s immigration policy: The ban on refugees and immigrants from muslim countries. As a member of the Association of American Universities, Yale backed a January 28 AAU statement calling for a swift end to the executive order, which would have barred returning students and faculty from certain countries — a fact University President Salovey detailed in a campus-wide email on January 29. On February 13, Yale joined Harvard, Stanford, and fourteen other universities in filing an amicus curiae brief in support of a legal case against the order. Salovey has also publicly supported the BRIDGE Act, recently proposed legislation meant to protect DACA students if the program were terminated. 

In a November opinion piece in the Yale Daily News, Salovey promised legal representation for undocumented Yale students and formalized the Yale Police Department’s policy of non-compliance with ICE. Tom Conroy, director of the university’s Office of Public Affairs & Communications, wrote in an email that university policy now mandates that YPD officers will neither inquire as to immigration status in non-criminal activity “nor enforce civil provisions of U.S. immigration law.” 

Following the election, the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) created a new website with resources and advice for undocumented and DACA-mented students. On November 9, OISS director Ann Kuhlman sent an email to undocumented students. She acknowledged that “some of the policies discussed during the campaign are understandably raising concerns for the undocumented and DACA-mented community, at Yale and beyond, on how the new administration will address the broader issue of undocumented individuals.” She wrote to the recipients: “you are an important and valued part of the Yale community and to let you know our office is alert to these issues and will monitor them closely. Presidents Salovey and Levin before him have long advocated for a reform of U.S. immigration and expressed support for the DREAM Act. This expression of support will continue.” At the end, she wrote: “We are all here for you.” 

While many immigrants and their supporters on campus say they appreciate the offers of assistance from OISS, they remain frustrated with what they view as an opaque response from the Yale administration. On December 19, Salovey quietly rejected a petition signed by nearly 1,000 members of the community asking Yale to designate itself a “sanctuary campus.” The sanctuary designation, a concept both symbolic and concrete that has drawn massive support on college campuses around the country, would publicly declare Yale’s refusal to collaborate with ICE officials attempting to detain members of the university community. While all Ivy League universities except the University of Pennsylvania publicly rejected the label, students at over one hundred schools have petitioned to adopt it. Thirteen colleges, including Wesleyan University and Connecticut College, have publically declared themselves as sanctuaries.

Salovey’s rejection came at the bottom of a Yale News press release about the BRIDGE Act — without ceremony and without campus-wide recognition. Tom Conroy, director of the university’s Office of Public Affairs & Communications, said in an email that the briefing was emailed out to the entire Yale community. “Yale’s Office of Public Affairs has engaged with a number of media members about Yale’s position, and I don’t believe there is any public confusion regarding that position,” he wrote. But much of the student body seems to remain unaware of the decision: a January 27th Yale Daily News article on the Yale sanctuary campus movement wrote that Salovey had “indicated neither support nor opposition to that proposal.” And on February 8th, Viviana Arroyo, co-moderator of the student organization Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlán (MEChA), wrote in an email, “Many students are unclear about whether or not the administration has clearly come out and said that Yale will be a sanctuary campus.” The day of the vigil, Salovey sent a university-wide email to the university community expressing support for Yale’s immigrant community and highlighting the importance of diversity on campus, but no administrator spoke at the event.


Corona Ortega has a hard time falling asleep these days. Events like the vigil are bright moments in an otherwise stressful period. An aspiring lawyer, she is taking five classes as an Ethnicity, Race & Migration major, working as a public school intern through Dwight Hall, volunteering with New Haven’s JUNTA for Progressive Action, and organizing in support of immigrants like