Publication date: February 1, 1991
Volume: 23
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editorials: Motoko Rich


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
ABOUT THIS ISSUE 5
NEWSJOURNALS 6
A Literary Oasis ... Dressed for Success
MINI fEATURES
Urban Elites ... By Erik Meers 9
A Question of Difference ... By Emily Bazelon 11
Scoring off the Court ... By David Kovel 14
Tomorrow's Teachers Today ... By Sally Horchow 23
Too Much, Too Soon ... By Mia Bay 25
The Rules of Attraction ... By Suneeta Hazra 35
fEATURES
Busing or Bust 16
By Jennifer Pitts
Hartford parents file suit to rewrite Connecticut's archaic racial integration laws.
With a special report by Katherine McCarron
Food for Thought 20
By Caitlin Macy
A free meal starts a school day where institutions take on parental roles.
PROFILES
On Top for Now 28
By Motoko Rich
Some swear by him and some swear at him, but John Dow gets his job done.
To Teach the Children Well 32
By Kathy Reich
A Hillhouse High School teacher makes urban education more than an academic issue.
AFTERTHOUGHT 37
Education En Vogue ... By Edith MacMullen.


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: MR**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A TNJ reporter wanted to write about 
"tracking" in the New Haven public schools. 
He hoped to talk to teachers and students at 
one of the city's high schools, but a high-level 
administrator squelched the project. The 
administrator feared that the reporter might 
give the school a bad rap. In his estimation, 
educators had invested too much time and 
energy cleaning up the schools to risk getting 
bad press. In the past, a few words from New 
Haven journalists had undermined the image 
that educators had worked so hard to create. 
"We've been burned before," said the 
administrator. 

While the reporter decided to highlight 
tracking by writing about a specific honors 
program, he knew he would not get the whole 
story. If we've learned anything from putting 
together this· special issue on education, it's 
that the whole story is an elusive thing. Even 
if administrators had given us free rein to talk 
to whomever we wanted, we knew our own 
biases could still skew our reporting. Though 
we live and study in New Haven, we all have 
a lot to learn about education in the city that 
surrounds us. Many of us get a glimpse of
February 1, 1991 
local schools by volunteering, but it is still 
difficult for us to gain an informed view of 
Elm City educational issues. 

On the national level, it seems equally 
difficult to get an informed view of education, 
the cause celebre on the domestic agenda of the 
'90s. The rhetoric often sounds hollow and 
abstract, and the catch phrases distant from 
reality. With this issue, TNJ 
hopes to 
contribute concrete information that will 
ground old arguments and generate new ones. 
Through interviews, research and a vigilant 
sense of our limitations, we have tried to 
report on the actual conditions and programs 
that operate in New Haven's public schools. 
Here we profile several people and programs 
that attempt to improve education in New 
Haven: a social studies teacher at Hillhouse 
High School, free breakfasts in the schools, 
Yale tutoring groups, the Macy Prep program, 
Superintendent John Dow and others. 

Through these articles we hope to look beyond 
ourselves and begin to understand the issues 
that confront the community around us. 
-MR


**Title: A Literary Oasis**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 6-7**

After they finish classes at New Haven's 
Sheridan Middle School, Jason Jackson 
and Jerome Harper take the bus 
downtown to the newly-renovated 
main branch of the public library. It's 
not that their homework requires 
endless research; Jackson and Harper go 
to the library every day because they 
like it. "It's better than home," 
explained Jackson as he looked up from 
a math problem. "It's good for doing 
homework. There are no distractions or 
temptations here." Harper added, "It's 
really nice here. It's a place to learn 
more." 

Jackson and Harper are taking 
advantage of the downtown library's 
recent expansion. Despite the city's 
fiscal crisis, the New Haven library 
system raised enough money to expand 
its central facility. The New Haven Free 
Public Library, on the corner of Elm and 
Temple Streets, re-opened 
last 
November 
after 
undergoing 
renovations costing nearly $17 million. 

While New Haven still lags far behind 
nearby cities in library services, officials 
hope this expansion will make up some 
of the difference. 

The renovations took more than 
6 The New Journal 
two years to complete and tripled the 
library's size to 100,000 square feet. The 
new space provides room for 80 percent 
of the library's collection in open stacks; 
before, readers had to wait for librarians 
to fetch most books. The library also 
boasts a new public computer facility, 
an audio-visual station with compact 
disc players and video cassette 
recorders, an employment information 
section, and rooms for literacy tutoring. 

Despite the recent expansion, the 
library system has not escaped the fiscal 
restraints that have hurt all of New 
Haven's city services. 
In 1976, there 
were eight libraries throughout the city; 
today only four remain. Forty-eight 
people staff the main library, down 
from 83 two years ago, and the library 
opens its doors only 33 hours a week. A 
government study found that New 
Haven has the smallest library b udget 
per capita in all of Connecticu t. But 
librarians are still optimistic. "When 
we're open, everything is accessible and 
there is plenty of staff to help," said 
Joanne Connelly, director of t he 
reference department. "We'd rather 
stay open fewer hours and p rovide 
good service than open for more hours 
than we could handle." 

Some say that 33 hours, even with 
good service, isn't nearly enough . "It's 
ridiculous," argued Harry O'Connor, 
librarian at Wilbur Cross High School. 
"You're talking six days a week. And 
out of the whole six days you can only 
find thirty-some hours to go there." 

Although library hours have 
shortened, librarians have made the 
main branch more accessible to 
students. Teachers can request library 
tours for their classes, and a Children's 
Services Department handles the needs 
of elementary sch,qol readers. To attract 
teenagers, the library created a new 
young-adult reading section and 
boosted its research facilities. "We're a 
pretty central location, and the other 
branches have limited resources," 
Connelly said. "High school students 
are going to have to come here to do 
their research papers." Nevertheless, 
many local students have not yet 
discovered their new library. 

"I just found out about it three days 
ago," said Odette Morrison, a junior at 
Cooperative High SchooL 
"It's a great 
place just to relax and read. But nobody 
knows about it. I wouldn't have heard 
about it if my friend hadn't brought 
me." Hillhouse High School English 
teacher Fran Perricotti asked her 
students whether they use the public 
libraries. "The feedback I get is that they 
really don't," said Perricotti. 

Ernest Roth, assistant principal at 
Hillhouse, agrees with this assessment. 
"My guess is that they probably don't 
use it very much. As they get to the 
high school, I don't think there are 
many opportunities for kids to be made 
aware of the public library and the 
resources they have." 

The only library many New Haven 
students use is the one in their school. 
Both major city high schools, Wilbur 
Cross and Hillhouse, have small school 
libraries which provide reference 
materials, periodicals, and a modest 
book collection of 11,000 volumes. "We 
get students here from A to Z, from 
third grade reading level to future Yale 
students," O'Connor noted. "I've got to


**Botlr Libraries and Public Schools**
**Author: Julian Ku**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
provide for all of them." Botlr school 
libraries are open during classes and for 
an hour after school. 

These libraries, however, often lack 
adequate materials for the research 
papers that juniors and seniors face each 
spring. "Just like every library, the 
H illhouse library could use more 
resources," said Hillhouse teacher 
Robert Moore. To help students in their 
research, he encourages his students to 
use the public library system. "The 
library is limited," said Moore. "But 
you have to direct your students. If they 
want to do serious research, they are 
going to have to go to the public 
library." With the renovated main 
branch now open, more students like 
Jackson and Harper may take Moore's 
advice. 
-Julian Ku


**Dressed for Success**
**Author: Laura Heymann**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Jeffie Frazier worries about her students. 
"Even at elementary schools," said the 
principal of the Helene Grant School, 
"children are being killed over 
expensive items." But Frazier and a 
growing number of local educators 
think they have a solution: public school 
uniforms. 

In 1988, Helene Grant became the 
first of five New Haven elementary 
schools to put students in uniform. Four 
other schools-Truman, Vincent Mauro, 
Lincoln Basset, and Columbus-soon 
followed suit, while students at Isadore 
Wexler and Jackie Robinson Middle 
School will begin wearing uniforms next 
September. "The idea came from the 
parents," 
Frazier 
said. 
"They 
understand what children are going 
through if other children make fun of 
Uniform advocates want students to devote less attention to fashion trends. 
February 1, 1991 
them." Debra Kelly, who has three 
children at Grant, is a big fan of the 
policy. "I think it's a fantastic idea," she 
said. "In today's economy, you just 
don't have the money to spend on 
clothes." 

Charles Flynn, principal of the 
Truman School, has parents like Kelly in 
mind. "The uniforms are economical 
and easy to maintain," he said. "The 
students need about two sets to last the 
year." Both Helene Grant and Truman 
help parents who cannot afford the 
uniforms, which range between $30 and 
$50. Robinson, however, provides no 
such assistance. ''We don't help parents 
when they buy their children clothing at 
the beginning of the school year," said 
principal Charles Warner. "After all, we 
have a lot of kids around here wearing 
$100 sneakers." 

Administrators feel that putting 
students in identical clothing gets rid of 
a primary source of competition. They 
want students to devote more attention 
to homework and less to fashion. "We 
needed to eliminate an obstacle to 
learning," Frazier said. "We instill in the 
students the idea that clothes can be 
thrown away, but what you have inside 
your brain, no one can take from you." 

Flynn adds that uniforms will help 
maintain security. "If you come into the 
school and you're not in uniform, you 
get a second look," said Flynn. "The kid 
who's just drifting in, scouting out the 
place--1 want to know what he's doing 
here." Both principals say their students 
feel part of a special group when in 
uniform; they are members of a 
distinctive and respected school. ''We're 
conveying the concept of family," said 
Flynn. "We're one big Truman family. 
When you're out on the street with that 
uniform on, you're representing 
Truman." 

The policies seem to work. At 
Grant, Frazier reports that since 
students began wearing uniforms, test 
scores have risen, while the number of 
disciplinary cases has dropped. All her 
The New Journal 7 


**Urban Elites**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 9**

An annual grant of $98,000 to Hillhouse High School is creating unusual opportunities for Its top students. 

The sign in front of New Haven's oldest 
high school reads: "Hillhouse High 
School: Champions in Athletics and 
Academics." While Hillhouse students 
have always excelled in athletics, the 
arrival of the Macy Prep program in 
1986 boosted confidence in the 
classroom. A grant provides a select 
group of students with special science 
instruction and enriched courses in 
English and math. For the past five 
years, the Josiah Macy Foundation has 
given this inner-city high school a 
$98,000 annual grant to fund an 
ambitious curriculum for the top 40 
students in each class. Still, Hillhouse 
administrators realize that the Macy 
program must contend with the 
overwhelming problems that their 
students face. "We have kids that are 
coming from family situations that are 
really disastrous," said Marc Blosveren, 
the Macy program director at Hillhouse. 
'We are fighting against those disasters 
to get the kids to realize that they can 
do the work. We can get them into 
"Public schools, 
instead of projecting 
into the future, have 
reacted to crisis. We 
have a real crisis 
going on." 
college." 

The Macy Foundation, dedicated to 
" minority science education," chose 
Hillhouse because of its almost entirely 
African-American population. The 
grant pays for extra class time, training 
for teachers, and lab materials for 
science courses. Hillhouse science 
teachers have used some of the money 
to attend workshops at the famous Cold 
Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long 
Island. 

To qualify for the program, 
students must demonstrate that they 
read at their grade level. This group 
constitutes about ten percent of the 
s tudents at Hillhouse. Even if the 
students qualify, the administration 
only takes students who demonstrate an 
active interest in the Macy curriculum. 
Once accepted, students cannot cut 
more than two classes per semester to 
stay in the program. 

The English component of the 
Hillhouse Macy program includes 
Ethnoliterature, in which students study 



**Title: The Macy Program at Hillhouse High**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the social histories of the various ethnic 
groups represented in New Haven. In 
the ambitious science program, the 
curriculum includes microbiology and 
physiology. Students use medical-
school case histories, and dissect 
specimens ranging from sharks to cats. 
The foundation pays for high-tech 
laboratory equipment often absent in 
even the most exclusive private schools. 
In addition to providing this 
sparkling equipment, the Macy 
curriculum responds to the particular 
"Most kids don't have 
parents with a college 
or even a high school 
diploma. " 
social problems that many of these 
students face: drugs, domestic violence, 
and street crime. "Public schools, 
instead of projecting into the future, 
have reacted to crisis," Blosveren said. 
"We have a real crisis going on." 
Last year, tutors from The 
Princeton Review helped Macy juniors 
prepare for the Scholastic Aptitude Test. 
The program's teachers also helped with 
college applications. For many of the 
students, the program makes college 
seem attainable. "Most kids here don't 
have parents with a college or even a 
high school diploma," said Blosveren. In 
the two classes that have graduated, all 
but three students went on to college. 
Despite the outpouring of money 
and effort, returning Macy alumni 
report having difficulty keeping up with 
reading in college. Moreover, the 
students have shown little improvement 
on standardized tests. Macy programs 
in New York, Alabama, and Arizona 
report similarly disappointing scores. 
The sponsor is demanding better 
results, 
especially 
on 
reading 
comprehension tests. "The foundation is 
coming down really hard. They want to 
see them doing so much reading that it 
is coming out of their ears," said 
Blosveren. To meet the foundation's 
demands, 
Hillhouse 
is 
now 
implementing an extensive reading 
program with regular testing for all 
Macy students. 

Such extra attention and money 
spent on Macy students causes 
resentment among some of their non-
Macy classmates, those in the lower 
"honors," "college-level," or "special-ed" 
tracks. A high proportion of Macy 
students lead the school's student 
government, athletic teams, and 
extracurricular organizations. A single 
group of students sticks together in all 
of its Macy classes. This system helps 
the teachers monitor students' 
development and detect problems early. 
It also fosters many close friendships. 
Some people outside the program, 
however, view Macy students as clique-
ish. "The honors and Macy students just 
socialize with each other," said tenth-
grader Chris Santos, who wants to get 
into the Macy program. 

Many Hillhouse teachers, however, 
believe the creation of an academic elite 
"People feel that either 
you are a Macy 
student or you aren't. 
The others feel that 
they are have-nots. " 
is beneficial to the school, making 
achievement socially acceptable. Macy 
recalls the spirit that once christened 
sports 
teams 
"the 
Academics." Administrators note that 
many of the best students join the 
program after their freshman year, 
when they see friends who are in the 
program sticking with it. "I've heard a 
lot of students say that they would like 
to be in the Macy program, so I think it 
serves as an incentive," said Macy 
chemistry teacher Lise Orville. "Kids 
are willing to work a little harder to be 
in Macy." Still, Orville fears that less-
motivated students get the wrong 
message and view their lower academic 
status as inevitable. "I think that we 
haven't been careful enough to say to 
students that they can get into Macy if 
they work very hard. People feel that 
either they are a Macy student or they 
aren't. The others feel that they are the 
have-nots." 

Although sotne Macy students 
come from very poor families, most do 
not. By contrast, the majority of 
Hillhouse parents have incomes near_ 
the poverty line. "A large number of 
Macy students are middle class. A lot of 
professionals-teachers, doctors., or 
nurses-send their kids to Hillhouse," 
said Orville. Although Blosveren claims 
that the Macy program has brought 
more affluent students to Hillhouse, he 
rejects the idea that Macy fosters elitism. 
"They're just a group of students, with 
the same ability as everyone else, who 
are taking advantage of what they 
have." 

Despite the program's uncertain 
results, most of the students believe that 
the Macy name will help them get into 
more prestigious colleges. "A lot of 
them want to be somebody and get out 
of this school," said Terry Bailly, a non-
Macy student. For many Macy students, 
"being somebody" often means 
escaping from New Haven. "A number 
of our Macy graduates visit and say 'I'll 
never come back to New Haven. I'm 
going to get my degree and move on,"' 
Blosveren said. "In the past, with white 
communities, we called it upward 
mobility." 
li1J 
Erik Meers, a sophomore in Berkeley 
College, is on the staff ofTNJ. 
February 1, 1991 


**Title: A Question of Difference**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 11**

Tutoring groups are puUing Yale students In touch with kids from New Haven middle schools. 
Hillhouse High School junior Alisa 
Reed wanted to boost her grades in 
chemistry and English. For extra help, 
she turned to Branch, a tutoring 
program founded in 1989 by Yale 
students. One of the tutors assigned to 
Reed is white, the other African-
American, like Reed. "Both of them are 
really helpful, and I'm comfortable with 
them," she said. "But we talk about 
different stuff together." Reed's African-
American tutor attended a high school 
similar to Hillhouse and talks to Reed 
about what it's like to go to a 
predominantly white college. Still, Reed 
doesn't think that race plays a big role 
in her relationships with her tutors. "I 
don't think about whether they're white 
or black when I'm with either of them," 
she said "I just think about how they're 
helping me." 

Other Yale groups that work with 
New Haven children wonder how racial 
differences between tutor and student 
affect the educational process. At the 
Ulysses S. Grant Foundation, where 
Yale students teach classes in English 
and math on campus for talented sixth 
through ninth graders, charges that 
white teachers lacked racial sensitivity 
provoked a major upheaval last spring. 
The organization's board of directors 
almost suspended classes when its 
counseling department and assistant 
director walked out in protest. 

The indignant counseling staff, 
made up entirely of students of color, 
believed that they were the only staff 
members who paid sufficient attention 
to racial and class issues. "We felt that 
the teachers were not adequately 
responding to the needs of the students 
they were trying to teach," said Billy 
Ray Gonzalez (PC '91), the assistant 
director who led the walk-out. "They 
refused to see that dealing with issues 
of race and class is central." 

Gonzalez thinks that Yale students 
need intensive sensitivity training 
before they can teach effectively. Grant 
seems to have taken his words to heart. 
Last summer, then-program director 
Jeff Dolven (CC '90) asked teaching 
candidates questions about how they 
would handle racial tensions in class. 
For the first time, Grant leaders ran 
workshops about racial, ethnic and class 
differences, and its present staff is more 
racially diverse than before. "This was 
the 'consciousness year,"' said new 
teacher Crystal Marie Smith (DC '93). 
"The workshops were a good start 
because they admitted that you might 
encounter problems just because you 
are white." 

Still, Dolven refuses to accept the 
possibility that white teachers do more 
harm than good. "At its best, Grant 
provides an environment where the 
dignity of the individual is part of day-
to-day life," he said. "Differences are 
honored but not perceived as divisive." 

Dolven recognizes that Yale students 
may fall short of meeting these ideals. 
"Few undergraduates can really work 
through issues of racial consciousness 
with a group of junior high kids," he 
said. 

While other Yale tutoring groups-
Branch, Youth Together, and Urban 
-Improvement Corps-have not faced 
the upheaval that disrupted U. S. Grant, 
each group has .shaped its own 
philosophy on the role of race in 
education. Youth Together, structured 
around independent projects for. 
students at the Roberto Clemente 
Middle School, tries to select a group of 
tutors that reflects Yale's racial and 
class composition. "The kids are used to 
the mainstream white culture," said 
current director Margaret Etienne (MC 
'91). "But it's important for them to see 
people who look different from each 
other working together as equals." 

Eighth-graders Jose Candelario 
and Kimberly Smart say that their 
images of white people have changed 
since they joined Youth Together. 
"There are only five white kids in this 
school, and none in my neighborhood," 
said Smart. "Until I started working 
with my tutor, most of what I thought 
about them came from negative images 
on TV." Candelario thinks that the 
program makes cooperation seem more 
attractive. "It shows us that you can 
work with white people, and that 
segregation is not the right thing," he 

Candelario's tutor, David Pepper 
(BK '93), says his work in the program 
has made talking about race easie·r. 
"Last year I shied away from even 
saying the word 'black' to someone of 
color," Pepper said. "But I talk about 
race all the time with my student and 


**Title: Bridging the Gap**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
r 
with the minority tutors." 

Other programs also hope to break 
down stereotypes. Hillhouse chemistry 
teacher Lise Orville believes Branch 
proves eye-opening for tutors. "It's 
important for Yalies to know what the 
community they live in is really like 
rather than just being scared by it," she 
said. David Coleman (BR '91), Branch's 
founder, hopes that tutors will leave 
prejudices behind when they enter 
Hillhouse doors. "There is a danger of 
tutors bringing in preconceived notions 
about how Hillhouse students behave," 
he said. "It is u~terly important to 
respond to them as individuals." 

While Branch may encourage 
tutors 
to 
go 
beyond 
cultural 
stereotypes, the program also helps 
dispel Hillhouse kids' misconceptions 
about Yale students. Art tutor Dan 
Clarke (CC '93) remembers that kids 
first assumed he owned a car. Youth 
Together's Etienne believes that as an 
African-American woman, she can 
change student assumptions about who 
goes to Yale. "At first the kids don't 
believe I go to Yale, because for them 
it's a place where African-Americans 
work in the dining halls," she said. 

Monica Simmons (MC '91), director 
of the Urban Improvement Corps (UIC), 
a tutoring program that operates out of 
the Afro-American Cultural Center, 
believes that African-American tutors 
give students a sense of their potential. 
'Tm happy that we have a lot of 
African-American tutors because the 
tutees are people of color in need of 
positive role models," said Simmons. 
She also believes that the bond of race 
gives tutors of color a head start. 
"Students may not take as long to warm 
up to us because race is something very 
visible they can identify with," she said. 

Indeed, Youth Together participant 
Smart recalls that the first time she met 
her white tutor, she felt put off. "I left 
the room," said Smart. "I thought I 
w ouldn't like working with a white 
tutor." Smart changed her mind by the 
end of the first session. "Now I really 
like her," said Smart. 

UIC's Simmons maintains that as 
February 1, 1991 
an African-American tutor, she is more 
in tune with her students. "I can relate 
to the student's fa m ily or school 
situation," she said. Still, former Grant 
Assistant Director Gonzalez feels that 
the common bond of race does not 
guarantee sensitivity. "To be successful, 
Yale students of color require the same 
training as white students do in 
respecting differences," he said. 

Although Branch does not yet have 
an official training session, Coleman is 
wary of providing too much training 
before students begin tutoring. "We 
don't want to saddle them with huge 
generalizations about what it means to 
be an inner-city kid," he said. Still, 
Coleman realizes that tutors need some 
preparation. "We don't want our tutors 
to go in with any illusions about how 
difficult some of the skill problems and 
family problems are," he said. 

UIC tutor Adria Imada (DC '93) 
often wishes that her training had 
included more information about the 
environment in which her students live. 
"Kids come in talking about violent 
situations at home or in their 
neighborhood," 
she 
said. 
" I'm 
frustrated because I don't have the 
knowledge or resources to help." 

When tutors meet with students, 
what goes unsaid may be the most 
telling of all. Last fall, while helping out 
in an art class, Branch tutor Clarke 
noticed one student creating a graphic 
design that incorporated the words: 
"Blacks and Whites Unite." " I was 
really impressed with the design, and I 
told him so," said Clarke. "But I felt it 
was inappropriate for me to ask him 
about the social implications of that 
slogan." 

While Clarke and other Yale 
students struggle to define their role as 
tutors within New Haven schools, 
chemistry teacher Orville believes their 
academic function is paramount. 
"Helping the kids with their work is the 
meat of what tutors do, and anything 
else is pure gravy," she said. 
1&1) 
Emily Bazelon, a sophomore in Pierson 
College, is on the staff ofTNJ. 


**Title: Scoring off the Court**
**Author: David Kovel**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

The basketball rivalry between Wilbur Cross and Hillhouse is as 
intense as the familiar one between the lakers and the Celtics. 

Five hundred fans packed Southern Connecticut State 
University's basketball stadium this January for the semi-
annual men's game between Wilbur Cross and Hillhouse 
High Schools. Both teams rank consistently among the top 
basketball powers in the state; last year the Hillhouse 
Academics beat the Cross Governors in the finals of the state 
championship. Although neither team is likely to make the 
finals this year, their match two weeks ago was a thriller. 

In the opening minutes Hillhouse kept the edge, but 
Cross managed to stay close, never falling behind more than 
three points. Midway through the first quarter, the Governors 
took the upper hand, widening their lead w 13 points. In the 
final minutes of the half_ Hillhouse surged to within eight 
·points, but never managed to take the lead. The Governors 
blew the Academics away in the final quarter, winning by 12 _ 
points. The New Haven school system's version of the 
Lakers-Celtics game was over. 

Sal Savo, assistant supervisor of athletics for the N~w 
Haven public schools, believes the city's basketball teams are 
successful because the game itself is inexpensive and easily 
accessible. Children can learn the sport even without lessons 
or equipment, although Boys and Girls Clubs throughout the 
city offer organized basketball programs. New H aven 
children learn to play ball not from coaches, but from pick-up 
games on neighborhood courts or in the clubs. For many of 
the players on the Hillhouse women's team, high school 
marks the first time they have played organized ball. 

As New Haven kids get older, basketball becomes more 
important to their futures. In the past 25 years, Cross has sent 
110 basketball players on to college. Cross and Hillhouse 
graduates now attend such powerful basketball schools as 
Lasalle and Louisiana State University. Some of these players, 
however, may not have been academically prepared for 
college. Maurice Williamson, a Cross graduate attending LS'I,.J, 
was ineligible to play this year because of academic problems. 

In response to cases like this one, the New Haven Athletic 
Department has established supplementary academic 
programs for its athletes. 

Five years ago, Bob Laemet Supervisor of Athletics for

New Haven's public schools, institUted a tutorial program to 
give athletes extra help. Teachers tutor athletes so they can 
keep up their grades and remain eligible to play. Failing 
students are not allowed to participate in sports. 

Still, athletes often find the tutorials inadequate. 
"Teachers don't always make you do what you're supposed to 
do," said Terry Brookshire, a junior basketball player at Cross. 
"But you can get help if you ask for it yourself." Hillhouse 
basketball player Dorheen Towles said the tutorial often 
seems more like a social hour than a study session. "The 
tutorial program gives us time to do work and to get help 
from teachers if we need 
it, but it is sometimes 
distracting because there 
are so many people there." 

But 
Paul Goglia, 
history teacher at Cross 
and former director of the 
tutorial program, thinks 
the study sessions are 
productive. "Any athlete 
that shows a need for 
believes they cannot sufficiently address academic problems 
which begin before the players reach high school. He suggests 
that schools use basketball as an educational tool not only for 
secondary school students but for young children as well. 

One new program, Biddy-Basketball, combines education 
with basketball for 162 public school children aged four 
through 12. Directed by high school coaches, the program 
brings children to Hillhouse on Saturday mornings. Hillhouse 
students provide both academic and athletic training for the 
children. An Assistant Basketball Coach at Cross and Biddy-
Basketball coordinator, Tom Fleming, believes that having 
;;; high school students 
~ teach 
the children 
~ makes this kind of 
~ instruction 
more 
exciting than classroom 
learning. "Any child 
psychologist will tell 
~ you that children are 
less bored by and learn 
faster from older kids," 
he said. "Basketball is 
interactive help gets it," he 
something that almost 
He believes the 
every kid likes, and to 
program has value even 
get an educational 
for students who don't 
component with it is 
need extra academic help. 
rare." 
"A study period may be 
Biddy-Basketball 
exactly what some athletes 
administrators hope 
need. The period between 
that the program will 
school and practice is 
help improve the kids' 
usually 
wasted 
time 
academic futures. For 
anyway. With the tutorial Basketball players ~ho earn low~r than a B minus in any class must attend 
athletes at Hillhouse 
period, the students are an after school tutonal program If they want to stay on the team. 
and Cross, basketball 
able to use this time more efficiently." 

Although the tutorial program is available to all athletes, 
the basketball teams have created their own programs. Jim 
Wolf, head coach of the Hillhouse men's team, invited Yale 
student athletes who tutor in the Branch program to teach a weekly 
Scholastic Aptitude Test review for his players. The review 
improves athletes' chances of college acceptance and also 
addresses Proposition 48, the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association regulation which requires a minimum combined 
SAT score of 700 to play varsity sports in the first year of 
college. Terell Myers, a Hillhouse junior, thinks his SAT scores 
will rise because of the review. Branch d irector David 
Coleman (BR '91) hopes that improvements in the basketball 
players' test scores will encourage other coaches to try similar 
programs. 

While Bob Salisbury, the Cross men's basketball coach, 
thinks these programs are steps in the right direction, he 
already works as an educational tool; at the very least it keeps 
them in school. Laemel claims that while the drop-out rate in 
New Haven is approximately 20 percent, only two percent of 
student athletes quit school. Moreover, the discipline that 
coaches like Salisbury demand on the court spills over into 
classroom behavior. "The basketball players have always been 
some of the best-behaved students in my class, and their 
grades are often as good or better than the class average," 
Goglia said. Teenagers love basketball and are willing to 
abide by the academic and disciplinary rules required to play. 
"Rules don't bother me," said Cross senior Emanuel 
Williamson. "I'm playing something I like." 
David Kovel is a sophomore in Calhoun College. 



**Title: Busing or Bust**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Busing or Bust 
Jennifer Pitts 
Separate may not be equal, but it seems to be the rule in 
hopelessly outdated. Under the act, ethnic populations within 
Connecticut. The student body at New Haven's Hillhouse 
a school must mirror the composition of the district as a whole. 
High School, for example, is now 98 percent African-
The intention of the law was to prevent cities from having 
American. While students of color account for only a quarter 
separate schools for white and non-white students. Twenty 
of Connecticut's public school population, they are 
years ago, a law based on individual school districts might 
concentrated in a handful of cities-New Haven, Hartford, 
have been enough to maintain integrated schools. But after 
Bridgeport and Waterbury. In contrast, 115 of the state's 169 .two decades of white flight-the exodus of middle-class 
districts have non-white enrollments of less than five percent. 
whites from cities to suburbs-whole towns and cities are 
"Under current law, there is no way to achieve 
racially unbalanced. 
meaningful integration in Connecticut," said John Brittain, a 
The old law may actually thwart efforts at integration. 
law professor at the University of Connecticut. Hoping to While a school in Hartford or New Haven with an entirely 
reverse a 30-year trend toward segregation, Brittain is 
African-American and Latino student body is in compliance 
representing 19 Hartford-area residents in Sheff v. O'Neill, a 
with the Racial Imbalance Act, any public !j<;hool population in 
class-action suit against the state. The plaintiffs claim that 
these cities over 35 percent white is illegal. At the same time, 
racial and economic imbalances between Hartford and its .most suburban or rural public schools cannot have student 
suburbs violate the Connecticut state constitution, which populations less than 70 percent white. Because of 
assures every citizen's right to an education. The case will be 
Connecticut's residential segregation, schools are almost -
heard by a state court this spring. Regardless of the initial 
required not to integrate. 
outcome, appeals will cer tainly follow. But if the Sheff 
The legislators who drafted the act, Brittain says, were not 
plaintiffs ultimately prevail, the court will force Connecticut simply shortsighted. As early as 1955, the United States Civil 
to legislate state-wide desgregation. 
Rights Commission warn·ed Connecticut of the growing racial 
Though Connecticut has a desegregation law on the 
disparity between its cities and suburbs. Brittain claims that 
books-the Racial Imbalance Act of 1969-this legislation is 
the state assembly, dominated by representatives from rural 


Attorney and professor John Brittain said, "Under current law, 
there's no way to achieve meaningful Integration." 

towns and suburbs, drafted a law that would not force 
suburban children to attend city schools. For these legislators, 
Brittain argues, concern for local autonomy and the integrity of 
individual districts outweighed any desire for racial balance in 
the schools. "They hammered out a law that could not violate 
sacrosanct boundaries between urban communities and their 
suburban counterparts," he said. "They knew the law would 
not have any impact on the state's three largest cities." 

Brittain and the Sheff plaintiffs demand desegregation that 
will cross the lines between cities and suburbs. ''There simply 
are not enough white children in the cities to sprinkle around 
the urban school districts," Brittain said. He claims 
Connecticut classrooms must include both city and suburban 
schoolchildren. Although courts have refused to mandate 
interdistrict desegregation since the early '70s, Brittain is 
confident of victory. He emphasizes that Connecticut's current 
racial imbalance violates citizens' fundamental right to 
education as ensured by the state constitution. 

The state's attorneys argue that Connecticut cannot accept 
legal responsibility for the problem. ''The state did not create 
these demographic conditions and is not violating the 
constitution," said John Whelan, the main defense attorney in 
Sheff. Whelan believes that the state's racial imbalance should 
be addressed with policy initiatives, not court orders. "If the 
case is decided in favor of the plaintiffs, a single judge will be 
taking over the entire Hartford school system," he said. 

"Segregation," wrote Gerald Tirozzi, the state's Education 
Commissioner, in a 1988 report, "is educationally, morally and 
legally wrong." But he insists that court involvement won't 


**Title: Speaking the Same Language**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 17**

Speaking the Same Language

When the final bell rings at Hillhouse High 
School, most students beat a hasty retreat 
from their daily studies. But a number of 
sophomores and juniors stay put. This 
group is joined by students from all over 
the New Haven area who are bused to 
Hillhouse four times a week to participate 
in Hillhouse's International Studies 
Program. Picking up where most high 
school language curricula leave off, the 
program offers courses in Chinese, 
Japanese, and Russian. Participants devote 
eight hours a week to conjugating verbs, 
translating passages and memorizing 
dialogues. But hard work has its rewards. 
During the summer, program members 
travel to China, Japan or the Soviet Union to 
practice their newly-acquired language 
skills. 

They live with families, tour 
museums, and journey through the 
countryside. To top it off, the students 
don't have to pay for anything but 
souvenirs. The federal government picks up 
the tab. 

The US Department of Education 
funds International Studies at Hillhouse 
because the program doubles as an 
experiment in voluntary integration. Of the 
1,()20 students who attend Hillhouse during 
school hours, 95.3 are African-American, 51 
are Latino, and 12 are white. In contrast, the 
after-school program is more ethnically 
balanced. Eighteen African-American and 
Latino, 35 white, and 6 Asian students 
participate. Program administrator Edith 
MacMullen says that this balance 1s the 
result of a concerted effort to recruit 
students from schools throughout the New 
Haven area. 

Educators attribute the success of this 
integration experiment to the strength of the 
language instruction. The language classes 
are team-taught by a certified teacher and a 
native speaker. While one explains the 
basics, the other coaches students' accents 
and helps them master idioms. NWith the 
two-teacher system, there is far more 
instruction and flexibility," MacMullen said. 
New Haven Supelintendent of Schools John 
Dow believes the rigor of the program 
explains its success as a tool for mtegration. 
uwe have white students coming into




**Title: School Integration: A New Haven Experiment**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
demography, integration cannot 
proceed without busing. 

Even if state officials could 
convince residents that busing is in their 
best interest, there's no saying the 
program would work. Busing has 
already failed once in New Haven. In 
the '60s and '70s, the city sent 
elementary school children to North 
Haven and other suburbs through a 
state-funded voluntary integration 
arrangement called Project Concern. The 
program still buses about 700 Hartford 
students to the suburbs, though no 
suburban kids make the opposite 
commute. Project Concern reached its 
heyday in New Haven in the early '70s 
but could not, according to Tirozzi, 
weather suburban hostility. 

"The suburban districts were 
behaving like private schools," Tirozzi 
said. Students were hand-selected for 
the project, and the suburban schools 
often sent back children with academic 
or behavioral problems. "In a public 
system, if kids act up, you don't return 
February 1, 1991 
8 
Hillhouse every day for ::'le program," Dow 
~ Sclid. 
~ 
Although white students come to 
~ Hillhouse for this program, they stay for 
~ only two hours. "We might not get the 
~ same response if it was for the whole day," 
~ Program Director Burt Saxon said. Even on 
~ a small scale, integration is a tricky 
<!I 
business. Since students decide what 
them," Tirozzi said. "New Haven 
officials began to wonder why they 
were taking our best students and 
returning the ones they didn't want." 

Discouraged by the experience and 
facing a fiscal crisis, the city pulled out 
from the program altogether. 

Whether Connecticut manages to 
make voluntary integration work this 
time or the court hands the state a 
mandate, 
city 
officials 
cannot 
desegregate urban centers on their own. 

"The state must e ndorse collective 
responsibility to desegregate the schools 
of 
Connecticut," 
said 
Tirozzi. 
Connecticut Civil Liberties Union 
lawyer Philip Tegeler believes state 
involvement 
is 
forthcoming. 

"Connecticut cannot administer a 
system that deprives children of equal 
education opportunities," he said. ''This 
case is as much about quality education 
as it is about desegregation." 

Jennifer Pitts, a junior in Calhoun College, 
is photography editor ofTNJ. 


language they want to take, administrators 
cannot socially engineer particular 
classrooms. "Realistically, we'd like to have 
each class fall within a ratio of two to one, 
minority to non-minority, or vice versa," 
Saxon said. "But that is an awkward thing 
to try to impose." While the Japanese class 
i<> racially mixed, most students in the 
Chinese class are either African-American 
or Latino. ln the Russian class, most of the 
students are white. Saxon admits that the 
program has struggled with drawing non-
white students into Russian classes. 

"Attracting minority students historically 
has been a problem for Soviet studies," 
Saxon said. Students said that African-
Americans in particular feel uncomfortable 
m the Russian class. "1 knew a black girl 
who dropped Russian," said Tina 
Couverthier, a junior in the Japanese class. 
"It was like being a mouse in a room full of 
elephants." 

The after-school language program 
cannot remedy Connecticut's integration 
woes on its own. But the program does 
bradge gaps between kids from different 
parts of the New Haven area. "In my class, 
we are all friends," Couverthier said. A few 
romances have even sprung up among the 
after-school students. The program also 
brings students to Hillhouse who might 
never have come otherwise. Nl'd never 
really seen the inside of an urban high 
school before," ..aid Hopkins senior Richard 
Coluris, a student in the Japanese class. "It's 
good for kids from the suburbs to see." The 
International Studies program strives to 
open the minds of New Haven students to 
the world around them, not just across the 
globe, but in their own hometown. 

Katherine MfCarron, a JUnior in Calhoun 
College, is on the staff of TN/. 
The New Joumal 19 


**Title: Food for Thought**
**Author: Caitlin Macy**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Working parents who have no time to fix breakfast can count on the 
schools to feed their children a morning meal. 

Sometimes the juice is frozen or the fruit is not ripe. But the 
25 students in Allison Gouterman's kindergarden class say 
that usually the food tastes good. Each morning before they 
practice reading and math skills, the students at the Isadore 
Wexler Elementary School eat a breakfast provided by the 
New Haven public schools. Only after the students pile their 
cardboard trays in the recycling bin does Gouterman instruct 
them to open their books and begin the lesson of the day. 

This year the New Haven public school system will 
provide breakfast for 76 percent of its elementary and middle 
school students, nearly 10,000 children citywide. Two years 
ago, administrators launched the free breakfast program to 
alleviate hunger among the city's children. Along with 
20 The New Journal 
~ expanded health education and in-school health clinics, the 
~ breakfast program represents the city's effort to provide not 
~ only for students' intellectual development, but also for their 
~ physical well-being. 

In February 1988 the Hunger Task Force under the 
~ direction of then-mayor Biagio DiLietcfs office implemented 
the breakfast program in response to a state-sponsored study 
on hunger in New Haven. The 1986 study reported that more 
than one-quarter of the families in the city's Hill 
neighborhood (near the Yale Medical School) did not have 
enough food. In reponse to questionnaires, families said that 
children sometimes missed meals and went to bed hUl)gry. 
City teachers observed that these children had difficulty 
concentrating. "Children told me they felt hungry," said 
Margaret Thomas, a teacher at Martin Luther King elementary 
school. ''I'd have to send them down to the cafeteria and buy 
them a snack so they could participate in class." 

Reagan-era budget cuts exacerbated hunger among city 
children. In 1981, revised federal guidelines reduced the 
number of New Haven students eligible for free or reduced-
price lunches. To compensate, the Mayor's Hunger Task 
Force recommended that New Haven open a free breakfast 
program to all students in kindergarden through eighth 
grade--even those ineligible for a free lunch. 

Despite the 1981 cuts, federal funding remained available 
to support breakfast programs in "needy'' districts--defined 
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as those communities 
in which 40 percent of the children eat free or reduced-price 
lunches. New Haven, where only a quarter of the students 
pay full price for lunch, easily qualified for funding. "One of 
the reasons the free breakfast is so important is that since the 
Reagan budget cuts, fewer families can have their children eat 
lunch for free," said Mary Ragno, Coordinator of the State 
Department of Child Nutrition. 

City officials, educators and community activists believe 
the meal program is working. "School breakfasts specifically 
improve the performance and attendance of the students," 
said Laura Cohen, Director of the Connecticut Anti-Hunger 
Coalition. Anne Antonucci, the school nurse a t Wexler 
Elementary, has noticed a reduction in the number of students 
who require her services. '1 no longer see children who don't 
feel well because they haven't eaten breakfast," she said. 

Gouterman believes that the program allows her to make 
more demands of her students. "I know they're eating, and I 
can push them during the day," she said. 

Breakfasts meet federal nutrition stan-
dards. "The government allows donuts 
as long as they're whole grain." 

As the' schools assume responsibility for more than 
phonics and math, students eat during time previously spent 
studying. 

Schools serve breakfasts in the classrooms rather 
than in the cafeterias, and teachers must allot class time to 
supervise meals. "I appreciate that it gets the kids to school on 
time because their parents want them to eat for free, but it 
takes time away from lessons," said Gouterman, who allows 
half an hour for breakfast in her classroom. 

Some question the nutritional value of the meals. 
"Parents sometimes complain that the schools are serving 
'junk food' when they see their children are eating donuts for 
breakfast," said Ragno, who stressed that all breakfasts meet 
federal nutrition standards. "The government allows donuts 
as long as they're whole grain," she said. Others feel the 
program promotes unhealthy eating habits. Linda Thorpe, a 
teacher at Martin Luther King elementary school said that 
some of her students habitually eat two breakfasts, one at 
home and one at school. "I can't stop them, even if they're 
overweight," she said. 

Despite these pitfalls, breakfast at school continues to 
grow in popularity. Since September, an additional 500 
students have joined the program. Ragno attributes this rise 
to increased economic hardship in New Haven, and social 
Schools teach students mealtime manners, a lesson once left to parents. 
The New Journal 21 



**Title: Schools Take on Parental Roles**
**Author: Caitlin Macy**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
acceptance of the program. New.Haven 
currently operates the largest breakfast 
program in Connecticut, followed by 
similar programs administered in 
Hartford and Bridgeport. 

Open to all students regardless of 
financial need, the breakfast program 
not only feeds hungry children, but 
assists parents as well. "If a working 
parent does not have time to make 
bacon and eggs every morning, she 
doesn't have to worry about whether 
her child will eat,'' said Head Public 
Health Nurse Muriel Oberg. Parents 
appreciate that schools provide this 
service. "If we're running late in the 
morning, my kids usually eat at school," 
said Susan Sapp, president of the Fair 
Haven Parent Teacher Organization. 
Gouterman notes that the program 
forces schools to assume responsibilities 
previously considered parental. "We're 
teaching children how to behave a t 
mealtime and clean up after themselves 
-skills they used to learn at home," she 
said. 

Breakfast is not the only parental 
responsibility the school has taken over. 
A social skills curriculum implemented 
throughout the New Haven schools 
emphasizes topics ranging from AIDS, 
drugs and alcohol to self-esteem, 
relationships, decision-making and peer 
pressure. The program grew out of the 
work of nationally-recognized Yale 
psychiatrist James Comer, who began 
developing social-skills education at 
Helene Grant Elementary School in 
1968. "We have learned to teach the 
whole child," said Diane Garber, 
coordinator of the Social Development 
Program for kindergarten students 
through fourth graders. "We know that 
you can't just tell a child to say 'no' to 
drugs without teaching him about the 
uniqueness of self and consideration for 
others." 

While 
assuming 
tradi tiona! 
parental roles through the Social 
Development Program, school officials 
also want to involve parents in the 
educational process. "Dr. Comer's _child 
development program taught us that in 
"Feeding children at 
school should be like 
busing, something we 
should take tor granted 
in public education." 
impoverished communities we must 
bring the schools and the parents 
together to provide a positive message 
for the children," said Mickey 
Kavanagh, facilitator for Curriculum 
and Social Development. 

As educators seek to cultivate 
children's social skills, they also bring 
health care into the schools. At their free 
clinic on State Street, the schools have 
long provided free immunizations and 
physicals to students w ithout private 
health care providers. School nurses 
routinely screen vision, hearing, and 
posture. But since 1983 New Haven has 
expanded its subsidized health services 
through in-school health clinics. These 
clinics, now operating in Wilbur Cross 
High School, Jackie Robinson Middle 
School, and-as of January 24-
Katherine Brennan Elementary School, 
provide more comprehensive health 
care than is avai!able in the offices of 
school nurses. The funds that subsidize 
the clinics come from several sources, 
including the state and federai 
governments and private organizations. 

By providing comprehensive health 
care, the clinics benefit both students 
and parents. These clinics oper~te in 
conjunction with nearby health facilities 
so that physicians can advise the nurse 
practitioners on duty at the schools. The 
nurses can make diagnoses and if 
necessary 
prescribe 
medication. 

Students can also go to the clinics for 
psychological counseling. 

Educators have long known that 
hungry and unhealthy children make 
poor students. In-school health clinics, 
the social development curriculum and 
the free breakfast program demonstrate 
that schools are providing services once 
considered solely the responsibility of 
the parent. While many educators are 
pleased with the success of these 
programs, they believe they need to do 
more. Ragno points out that free 
breakfasts alone cannot fully alleviate 
hunger among city children. Despite 
the present lack of funding, Ragno 
hopes eventually to implement a 
universal free lunch program. "Feeding 
children at school should be like 
busing," she said. "It's something we 
should take for granted as part of public 
education." 

II1J 
Caitlin Macy, a junior in Saybrook College, 
is on the staff ofTNJ. 
February 1, 1991 


**Title: Tomorrow's Teachers Today**
**Author: Sally Horchow**
**Page number(s): 23**

Tomorrow's Teachers Today 
Sally Horchow 
Edith MacMullen, director of Yale's 
Teacher Preparation program, is not 
interested in armchair philosophers. 
"We want to link the ideal with the 
real," she said. "We don't sit and discuss 
education in the ivory tower." As a 
result, Teacher Preparation is the only 
undergraduate 
pre-professional 
program at Yale. To complete the 
program, students must not only take 
theoretical courses like "Schools, 
Communities, and the Teacher" and 
"The Methods of Teaching" but they 
must also student-teach in local public 
high schools. The result: state teacher 
certification for public secondary 
schools. 

Upon completion of the Teacher 
Preparation program, students are 
qualified to teach junior and senior high 
school in the Connecticut public school 
system. Approximately 50 people per 
year complete the program. 

The 
University is also experimenting with a 
pilot Child Development program that 
p repares students interested in 
preschool certification. 

Teacher Prep has been part of the 
undergraduate curriculum for 20 years. 
Still, the program remains small because 
the University hires few professors with 
expertise in the educational process. 
MacMullen is one of only two full-time 
instr uctors in the program; all other 
professors 
w ho 
teach 
Teacher 
Preparation classes have substantial 
"There are people who 
say that Yale shouldn't 
have a teacher prepa-
ration program at all. 
They think that anyone 
can teach." 
commitments to other departments. 

While MacMullen teaches an education 
course in the history department, neither 
the political science nor the economics 
department offers any courses on 
educational policy. The philosophy 
department once sponsored a course in 
educational philosophy, but the 
professor retired, and no one has taken 
over the course. This paucity of classes, 
MacMullen says, is indicative of the 
University's ambivalence towards 
teacher training. "There are people who 
Edith MacMullen, director of the Teacher Preparation program, claims that the University Is 
ambivalent toward teacher training. 
The New Journal 23 


**Title: Yale's Teacher Preparation Program**
**Page number(s): 24**

say that Yale shouldn't have a teacher 
preparation program at all," she said. 
"They think that anyone can teach." 

Struggling for credibility is nothing 
new for Teacher Prep. Even in the 1950s, 
when Yale offered a graduate degree in 
education-the Master of Arts in 
Teaching (MAT)-University officia~s 
turned up their noses at teacher 
preparation. The University did not 
commit many resources to support the 
program, and MAT administrators had 
to seek outside grants. The MAT, 
instituted to meet a national need for 
teachers after the post war baby boom, 
was phased out in the late 60s. "Yale is 
a research institution devoted to 
developing scholars," MacMullen said. 
"The MAT was there to develop 
"/learned so much in 
ten weeks of student 
teaching. It's a lot 
more difficult than it 
looks." 
practitioners. People thought that MAT 
students weren't as good." Teacher Prep 
re-emerged in 1970 as an undergraduate 
program. MacMullen argues that by 
moving 
the 
program 
to 
undergraduate level, the University did 
future teachers a favor. 

Today's Teacher Prep is stronger 
because its undergraduate program 
balances practice with theory. The 
"Methods" course, for example, 
introduces theoretical approaches to 
classroom situations. Students in the 
program apply what they have learned 
when they teach for ten weeks in a 
Connecticut public school. "When 
someone brought a neat idea to the 
methods class, I could immediately go 
and try it, " said Jeff Carroll (TO '90), a 
graduate of the program. By the same 
toleen, students inject hard facts into 
24 The New Journal 
methodological discussions. "I could 
say, 'Well, this is the way it really 
happened today. This is real life,"' 
Carroll said. 

Experienced "master teachers'~ 
advise Carroll and other Teacher Prep 
students. But ins.ide the classroom, 
Yalies are on their own. "My master 
teacher was in class with me only if I 
asked her to be there," Carroll said. 
"But most of the time I faced the class 
alone." 

Marilyn Szwed, the coordinator of 
practice teaching, is in charge of finding 
master teachers to participate in the 
program, often a formidable task. Last 
year, the Connecticut Assembly passed 
legislation that required special training 
for all master teachers. ·Because teachers 
must sacrifice time outside of school for 
this training, few have volunteered. 
"There are some marvelous teachers out 
there who are not certified to be master 
teachers," MacMullen said. 

What's more, two other area 
schools-the University of Southern 
Connecticut and Albertus Magnus-also 
have students who want to practice-
teach. There simply are not enough 
master teachers in New Haven to go 
around. Most of the certified master 
teachers are located in suburban 
schools, another problem for Yale 
students without transportation. Carroll, 
for example, had difficulty locating a 
nearby certified master teacher in social 
studies nearby. Szwed eventually found 
one at North Haven High School, but 
Carroll had to borrow a car to get there 
each day. 

Graduates of Teacher Prep have 
even more difficulty finding permanent 
jobs. Although people may think that 
the United States can always use more 
teachers, hiring in public schools today 
is actually very limited. Job openings 
attract masses of applicants. It was not 
easy for Lucija Begonja, a Special 
Student who graduated from the 
program last year, to find work. Begonja 
sought public school employment for 
months but ended up at St. Mary's, a 
Catholic girl's school in New Haven. 
"Teaching is my top priority," said 
Begonja. "But there is so much 
bureaucracy and politics that you have 
to deal with in the public schools." The 
public schools do not hire until August, 
while private schools begin recruiting in 
Although people may 
think that the United 
States can ·always use 
more teachers, hiring 
in public schools 
today is actually very 
limited. 
February. 

After finally finding a job, Begonja 
faced conflicts with colleagues who 
were not prepared in the same way that 
she was. "They've been trained, but they 
haven't been challenged," she said. 

Begonja finds it interesting that most of 
the teachers stick to uninspiring 
multiple choice tests, a method that she 
has never considered. "Edie and 
Marilyn pushed us to be creative and 
made the program special. Even today, 
when I have my crises in the classroom, 
I caU up Marilyn and ask 'What should I 
do?"' 

The graduates of Teacher Prep feel 
ready for these crises. In the classrooms 
of MacMullen and Szwed and in the 
classrooms of Connecticut public 
schools during their practice teaching, 
they have learned to challenge and be 
challenged. "I am always trying new 
methods to see what works best with 
what group of kids," said Begonja. "I am 
growing as a teacher." 

Ill) 
Sally Horchow, a junior in Calhoun College, 
is on the staff of TN]. 



**Title: Too Much, Too Soon**
**Author: Mia Bay**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
" 
Too Much, Too Soon 
Mia Bay 
1~~~~~~~~~::~_..:.-----~=-:::::::=~~~~~~~~~ 1! Last September ushered in a new era at 
5 
~ the Yale Graduate School. On the basis 
February 1, 1991 
------r~iot l ~ of proposals made by Deans Donald 
., Kagan and Jerome Pollitt, the Graduate 
~ 
;;; School introduced dramatic policy 
f changes that will transform the face of 
~ graduate education at Yale. Above all, 
... 
::;: these changes reflect the two deans' 
sense that across the country, there is a 
crisis in graduate education. Simply put, 
graduate school takes too long. 
Graduate students· at Yale current-
ly take an average of eight years to com-
plete a Ph.D.-less than the national 
average, but over a year longer than in 
the 1970s. "A red light went on when 
the figure went up to eight years," said 
Pollitt. "I just don't see the need to keep 
anyone captive for more than six." 
Kagan noted that educators nationwide 
believe graduate school wastes both 
time and money. "There is a concern 
that money is being thrown down a 
rathole," Kagan said. "Why should the 
Ph.D. be limitless?" 
The Kagan-Pollitt plan is shaped 
by the 1989 findings of the Ad Hoc 
Committee on Teaching at Yale College, 
headed by Jules Prown, professor of art 
history. 
Following 
the 
Prown 
Committee' s conclusion that excessive 
teaching responsibilities interfere with 
graduate work, the deans cut 200 of 
Yale's 1000 teaching assistant positions. 
''The focus of education ought to be tilt-
ed back toward the faculty," said Robert 
Bunselmeyer, associate dean of the 
graduate school. "We hope that faculty 
will become more involved in teaching 
sections themselves." 


To compensate for lost T A salaries, 
the Kagan-Pollitt plan called for a 
Dissertation Fellowship Program to 
award $8000 stipends to fifth- and sixth-
year graduate students. But the plan 
also ensures that the sixth year will be 
the students' last. Overstepping the 
Prown Committee's suggestions to 
speed up graduate education, the 
Kagan-Pollitt plan demands that stu-
dents complete their programs on 
schedule or risk losing course credit. 
Previously, students could negotiate 
due dates for late course work, but now 
they have one month to finish incom-
plete credits. "The deans have put more 
emphasis on stick as well as carrot mea-
sures," said Rogers Smith, Prown 
Committee membe-r and professor of 
political science. 

While many professors applauded 
the Prown report, they think Kagan and 
Pollitt went too far. "The plan's deci-
sions were imposed entirely without ref-
erence to faculty concerns," said Nancy 
Cott, Director of Graduate Studies for 
American Studies. Contrary to the two 
deans' expectations, professors say T A 
cuts won't make the faculty teach more. 
"There' s nothing structural in the plan 
that requires them to do so,"said 
William Cronon, DGS for the history 
department. "The faculty have no room 
to be doing more teaching." 

If graduate students teach less and 
faculty cannot teach more, undergradu-
ate education will deteriorate. This 
semester, undergrads face capped lec-
ture classes, larger sections, and less 
individual attention from TA's. "I'm just 
appalled about how this is affecting sec-
tion sizes," said History TA Heidi 
Tinsman (GRD '95). 

Equally worrisome are the plan's 
effects on graduate education. Students 
say they receive insufficient faculty 
guidance to finish within six years. "You 
have to have someone work with you 
very closely to finish that quickly," said 
Jeanne Lawrence (GRD '92). Because the 
Kagan-Pollitt plan does not increase fac-
ulty involvement in the graduate school, 
students fear their research will suffer. 
"People's research may not be rigorous 
enough to compete in the job market," 
said Renee White (GRD '93). "Everyone 
is really nervous about the six-year cut-
off," said Tinsman. 

While graduate students insist the 
six-year cap is unrealistic, Kagan and 
Pollitt seem to think that all the gradu-
ate students need is a new attitude. "My 
primary concern is helping graduate 
students finish rather than lead a kind of 
gypsy life in New Haven," said Pollitt. 
Grads respond that the deans don' t 
understand their position. "The deans 
seem to think that we have a welfare 
"The deans seem to 
think that we have a 
welfare mentality. 
They think we are hav-
ing a good time." 
mentality," said Gordon Lafer (GRD 
'94). "They think we are having a good 
time." 

Some graduate students say that 
the deans have been blinded by their 
desire to save money. Organizations like 
the Mellon Foundation support initia-
tives to speed graduate education, and 
grad students say Kagan and Pollit 
shaped their plan to tap into such funds. 
Pollitt acknowledges that funding con-
cerns played a role. "I wish that there 
was a lot more money that the graduate 
school could hand out," he said. " But 
every penny in our budget has been 
allocated." 

Kagan and Pollitt may have intend-
ed the fellowship program to free grad 
students from financial concerns, but 
money remains an issue. "A freebie at 
the end of five long years doesn't seem 
to be adequate," said Lisa Rabin (GRD 
'92), the only graduate student to serve 
on the Prown committee. "When mak-
ing a living becomes a worry, it inter-
feres with the completion of a degree." 

Students say the absence of teaching 
opportunities coupled with inadequate 
grants has made graduate school inac-
cessible. "People are dropping out 
because they can't afford to be here," 
said 
Mary 
Renda 
(GRD 
'94). 
"Increasingly you have to be from an 
upper-middle class background to sur-
vive in graduate school." 
February 1 , 1991 


While some students say the deans 
only want to cut corners, others suspect 
that the Yale administration's distrust of 
T A unionization sparked the Kagan-
Pollitt plan. "The plan would never 
have come into existence if the graduate 
students had not organized," said 
Robert Hinton (GRD '91). TAs are 
unionized at several major universities, 
and in recent years graduate students at 
Yale have sought better conditions 
under the auspice of TA Solidarity, a 
nascent union. Las~ April, the group 
changed its name to the Graduate 
Employees and Students Organization 
(GESO) and joined the Federation of 
University Employees-a union that 
"The nature of the dis-
ciplines does have 
something to do with 
it. Some of them have 
faculty members who 
teach them that 
rebellion is a way of 
life. " 
already represents Yale's Clerical and 
Technical workers, and Service and 
Maintainence workers. With the support 
of the other organized workers, GESO 
began a membership drive last spring. 
Hinton says that Kagan and Pollitt 
wanted to stymie this effort, and so 
imposed the six year ceiling on graduate 
education. "Many of the people who 
were organizing were beyond their sixth 
year," said Hinton. "The plan was most-
ly intended to be a threat." 

Pollitt says such accusations are 
unfounded. "There has always been an 
unhappy group-in history, American 
Studies, political science-for whom 
nothing is ever gooci," he said. "It's 
always some trap to defraud them." 

Still, Pollitt says the faculty may be 
responsible for this paranoia. "The 
nature of the disciplines does have 
something to do with it. Some of them 
have faculty members who teach them 
that rebellion is a way of life." 

Accusations of insidious plots 
aside, there is no guarantee that as grad-
uate students teach less, they will com-
plete their studies more quickly. With 
the exception of language degrees, the 
Prown Committee was unable to estab-
lish any correlation between teaching 
and the length of time to complete a 
degree. "We tried hard to find evidence 
for 
a 
correlation," 
Committee member Smith. As a result, 
graduate students claim that because of 
its faulty premise, the Kagan-Pollitt plan 
is illogical and destined to fail. While 
Tinsman says that a shorter time for a 
degree is certainly appealing, she 
believes that it's only wishful thinking. 
"I think that we would all like to finish 
in six years," she said. "I'd like to do it in 
five." 
..:) 
Mia Bay is a fifth-year graduate student in 
American history.


**Title: Profile On Top for Now: John Dow Sounds Off**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Profile 
On Top for Now: 
John Dow Sounds Off 
· Motoko Rich 
~ confidence in the schools had reached a low 
~ point," says Carrano. 
~ 
When Dow took over in 1984, he wasted 
"' no time overhauling some of New Haven's 
~ most feared schools. Calling New Haven the 
~ "cesspool of educational impersonation," he 
~ fired a number of administrators, enforced 
~ strict disciplinary rules-evell prohibiting 
students from wearing hats in school-and 
demanded that parents c.Qme to orientations 
before their children could enroll in classes. 
He ordered copy machines and other basic 
· materials the schools lacked. "We wanted 
kids to improve in their subjects and we · 
didn't have books, didn't have paper," he 
recalls with disgust. "We didn't have 
furniture and didn't have copy machines."' 
Since then, Dow has boosted parental 
involvement in the schools, beefed up special 
education programs, instituted social 
development curricula, and enlisted 
corporate sponsorship for school programs. 
"I try to operate in this school district as if every decision I make is for my own 
child," said Superintendent of Schools John Dow. 
He has brought computers into all 
classrooms through the fifth grade, introduced advanced 
placement classes, funded college visits for high school 
seniors, and schmoozed for grant money to send students 
abroad. "If you name it, he has done it," says ]effie Frazier, 
principal of Helene Grant elementary school. 
"Sometimes people may think that I shoot from the hip," says 
John Dow, Jr., Superintendent of the New Haven Public 
Schools. 
He's got that much right. "He tends to shoot from the 
hip and when you do that you tend to create some level of 
controversy," says Frank Carrano, president of the New 
Haven Teachers Union. Now that controversy may be 
spinning out of control. In December, Education Department 
clerk Joanne Bivona resigned and then accused Dow of telling 
her to stay quiet about bills allegedly doctored by school 
officials. She says Dow promised her a promotion in 
exchange for her silence. When Mayor Daniels called a 
meeting with the school board to discuss the issue, no one 
showed up. Daniels accused the board of deliberately 
snubbing him and Dow publicly called the mayor "a damn 
liar." 
"Dr. Dow does things to get people's attention," says 
Edward Ferruci, principal of Martin Luther King elementary 
school. "He reminds me of George Patton. He's a fighter." 


Dow's aggressive approach has gotten results. Educators 
and parents recall the dismal conditions of the New Haven 
school system before he arrived. "Before Dow came here, the 
schools were out of control, " says Susan Sapp, a parent with 
three children in district schools. "Kids were running around 
and the doors of classrooms used to be locked with students 
inside." Parents were desperate for improvement. "People's 


Dow began his career 28 years ago as a science and math 
teacher in Grand Rapids, Michigan. After only four years in 
"Someone once said of Dr. Dow 
that you either love him or hate 
him. /love him. He reminds me of 
George Patton. He's a fighter. " 
the classroom, he advanced to the administrative level, 
serving a year as a middle school assistant principal. From 
there, his career rocketed and within eight years of his first 
teaching job, Dow had become an assistant superintende~t. 
By the time he was 38 years old, Dow had landed in the 
Grand Rapids superintendent's office. 
The superintendent came to New Haven after the school 
board in Grand Rapids asked him to step down amid 
allegations of financial indiscretion. The board accused Dow 


of mishandling expense accounts and using school funds for 
personal use. Although the board brought no criminal 
charges against Dow, the distrustful community essentially 
gave him the boot. "Things started escalating," says Maryanne 
Challa, teacher in Grand Rapids and former Board of 
Education member. "People thought that Dow wasn't doing 
his job and there were allegations that he misused funds. It 
served the best interests of the community and John that he 
stepped down." New Haven Board of Education members 
traveled to Michigan before hiring Dow and decided that he 
was treated unfairly as a victim of media sensationalism and 
school board mistrust in Grand Rapids. 
When he came to New Haven, Dow moved from a school 
district of more than 54,000 students to a district of 18,000 
students here. "Right off the top his tactics were offensive," 
says John Einhorn, Alderman from the 25th Ward. Within the 
first few months of his tenure, Dow demoted an assistant 
superintendent and fired several other high-level 
administrators. "I told the board that we're going to hire 
people that are going to be effective, and we're going to fire 
people who are not," says Dow. Although one of the fired 
administrators took Dow to court on charges of 
discrimination, local residents viewed the firings as a good 
move. "He shocked a very staid, sluggish system," says 
Barbara Pynn, co-president of the Edgewood elementary 
school Parent-Teacher Association. "He got rid of a lot of dead 
wood." 


In 1985, Dow caused an uproar within the medical 
community and among AIDS activists when he barred a five-
year-old child with AIDS from coming to school. Rumors 
spread that Dow wanted to banish children with the disease to 
basement schools. Dow claims he acted out of caution and the 
ignorance of the times. "There were all kinds of wild stories 
about how AIDS could be contracted," Dow says. 'We were 
trying to be more safe than sorry." Although most board 
members backed him up on his decision, a 1988 federal court 
order prohibited school districts from denying HN carriers 
their right to an education. 


More recently, Dow proposed that officials withhold 
welfare checks from parents who did not send their children 
to school. Dow attributes many of the district's educational 
difficulties to low attendance rates in the schools. This year, 
for example, 28 percent of the fourth graders who failed the 
state mastery test had missed 20 or more days of school. "You 
can't blame teachers when children don't come to school," 
says Dow. "That's negligent parenting." While Dow hoped 
the welfare proposal would force increased attendance, the 
community expressed some misgivings. Dow thinks these 
objections were off the mark. "Hell, I get arguments from the


liberal do-gooders who suggest that having your kid miss 40 
days of school is all right," he says. 


Although Dow hopes to make parents more accountable 
for the education of their children, he believes the schools 
must assume a role he calls "institutional parenting." Under 
his guidance the schools have started serving free breakfasts 
and lunches, and students can stay after school for an 
"He shocked a very staid, sluggish 
system. He got rid of a lot of 
dead wood. " 
extended day academy. As he continues to add such 
programs, Dow takes the philosophy of "institutional 
parenting" very personally. "I try to operate in this school 
district as if every decision I make is for my own child," he 
says. 


Like any savvy leader, Dow knows when to give a little. 
By paying the city's teachers more money, he has cultivated 
faculty support for his initiatives. 'Without a superintendent 
leading the movement to improve teacher salaries, we would 
still be one of the lowest-paid districts in the state," says John 
Courtmanche, principal of Wilbur Cross High School. Faculty 
are relieved to have the superintendent on their side. "That's 
a refreshing change," says Rhoda Spear, supervisor of both 
the city-wide Talented and Gifted Program and the English 
curriculum for grades nine through 12. ''You usually meet a 
superintendent as an adversary across the bargaining table." 


Dow has also given the city's teachers at least a little 
more power. He supports teachers in their efforts to institute 
School Planning and Management Teams, which decentralize 
authority in the schools. At each school, a team made up of 
teachers, parents and the prinicipal would decide how to run 
the school. "Dow has supported it, which has been important 
because this kind of change can only happen if there's 
support from top to bottom," says Carrano. 


While supporting faculty concerns, Dow nevertheless 
makes high demands on his staff and comes down hard on 
anyone who tries to slack off. "If we don't do our jobs he can 
be a mean SOB," says Martin Luther King principal Ferruci. 
Dow doesn't let himself off the hook either. School board 
members report that the superintendent often works late into 
the night, though he frequently forgets that not everyone 
works on the same schedule. Former school board member 
and current City Comptroller Peter Halsey reports that Dow 


made regular calls to board members as late as 3:00 in the


"You can't blame 
teachers when 
children don't come to 
school. That's 
negligent parenting." 
morning. "He would just assume you 
were sitting there waiting for his call," 
says Halsey. "That's just part of his 
style. He's intense." 


Yet Dow's intensity has disgruntled 
city officials, particularly during annual 
budget battles with the city. Dow has 
locked horns with former Mayor Biagio 
DiLieto and present Mayor John Daniels 
in a series of much-publicized disputes, 


John Dow has brought computers Into all classrooms through the fifth grade.


often characterized by name-calling and 
accusations of financial impr_opriety. 


In his most recent clash with the 
city, Dow has claimed that New Haven 
failed to meet educational funding 
requirements manCfated by the state. 
He has demanded that the city come up 
with the cash. While the state supports 
Dow's claim that New Haven should -
add $2 million to its educational budget, 
city officials claim Dow could meet state 
guidelines by transferring funds from 
non-essential programs to those 
mandated by the state. "It is absolutely 
clear that the school system could meet 
the state requirement under the current 
budget," says Halsey. 


City officials claim that Dow uses 
suspect accounting practices. "John 
Dow has never produced an honest or 
straightforward budget," says Steven 
Mednick, a New Haven attorney and 
president pro tempore of the Board of 
Aldermen. Dow opponents accuse the 
superintendent of refusing to be fiscally 
accountable. "He has lost support by 
playing 'hide the ball' with finances 
while the city is on the verge of 
bankruptcy," says Alderman Einhorn. 


Dow, however, says that city 
officials are using New Haven's 
financial crisis to excuse its failure to 
meet the state funding requirements. 
"I'm not asking the city for more 
money, I'm asking it to meet the law," 
says Dow. The superintendent sought 
to 
dramatize 
the situation by 
eliminating eleven teaching positions 
one week before school started last 
September. But the move generat~d 
more antagonism for Dow than 
sympathy for the schools' economic 
woes, and two weeks later the 
superintendent evidently reallocated



**Title: New Haven's School Wars**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
funds and rehired the eleven staff 
members. 

"All responsible people agree that 
the school system is underfunded, but 
Dow's tactics can't be condoned," says 
Einhorn. "He's essentially declared war 
on the city, and everybody loses. The 
taxpayers lose, the students lose." 

Carrano believes the annual tensions 
have degenerated into pettiness. "It's 
unfortunate that we are reduced to 
squabbling," he says. Dow is frustrated 
as well. "It's probably the greatest waste 
of my time every year," he says. "I 
spend nine months messing around 
with the politicians about the budget." 

A few years ago, Dow made 
matters worse by refurbishing school 
board offices. The furniture reportedly 
cost around $200,000. "He lost a lot of 
credibility by putting up an expensive 
set of office furniture when we couldn't 
buy books for the system," says 
Einhorn. 

"He has lost support 
by playing 'hide the 
ball' with finances 
while the city is on the 
verge of bankruptcy." 

Investigators are still looking into 
the matter of the allegedly doctored bills. 
But with four of New Haven's 30 
aldermen calling for his resignation, 
Dow's stock seems to be plunging. 
Although his contract lasts until 1993, the 
superintendent is not untouchable. The 
board in Grand Rapids bought out his 
contract to get him to resign, and city
February 1, 1991 
officials in New Haven could do the same. 
If he is forced to leave, even some 
of those who question Dow's financial 
practices would bemoan the loss. "It's a 
shame because I see all the good things 
he's done. I don't think anybody else 
would have the same drive," says 
parent Susan Sapp. "It's like a passion 
and a vision. I think if he left, the 
district 
would 
slip back 
into 
mediocrity." 

Dow thinks he can survive the 
controversy, and plans to stay on for 
another three to five years. "Wimps 
don't get very far when times get 
tough," he says. "But I only want to be 
superintendent as long as people who 
have children in the school system and 
the staff and students want me to be." 

Some people are already speculating 
that Dow will not last long. "I think he 
might have exhausted his stay here," 
says Sapp. Other parents echo her 
opinion. "I think his time is about up," 
says Edgewood PTA's Barbara Pynn. 

Cool under the collar, Dow tries to 
dispel rumors that the latest scandal 
will mark his downfall. "All that's 
hype," he says. The superintendent 
believes that city officials are just trying 
to get revenge for the annual budget 
fracases. "I've been through this sort of 
thing for a long while-I've been 
misappropriating funds and getting 
fired for five years now," he says with a 
wry smile. "I don't know of any 
minority who has misappropriated 
funds and not wound up in jail. Now 
I'm not in jail yet so I think that says 
something." 

Motoko Rich, a senior in Branford College, 
is Editor-in-chief of TNJ. 


**Title: To Teach the Children**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

Frances Edwards takes the witness stand to describe how her 
husband abused her for years before the night she loaded his 
gun and fired several bullets into his head. The jurors listens 
intently to Edwards' story. After hearing the evidence, they 
reason that Edwards, since her husband was asleep when she 
shot him, could not have acted in self-defense. They convict 
her of voluntary manslaughter and sentence her to several · 
years in prison. 

This courtroom is on the second floor of Hillhouse High 
School, where Dr. Burt Saxon teaches a course in 
Ethnoliterature, a tenth grade elective that combines world lit-
erature with social studies. On this day Saxon has chosen to 
teach his class about the criminal justice system by staging a 
mock trial. He tells them that he admires their verdict .. Then 
one student raises his hand. "If a man is beating his wife, what 
should she do?" he asks Saxon. "What would you recommend 
besides murder?" 

Saxon pauses for a moment. "Well, the only thing a bat-
tered wife can really do is get out of there, get some help," he 
says. "There's a battered women's shelter in New Haven, and 
if you speak to me privately, I can give you the phone number. 
But they keep the location a secret so the husbands can't follow 
their wives there." 

"Then how do you know where it is?" one student shouts 
out. 

"Because he chased his wife there," another yells. The 
classroom explodes in laughter. A bemused Saxon stands in 
front of the class. "A lot of teachers might have gotten offend-
ed by that joke," he explains later. "But I want the kids to feel 
like they can joke with me. And I suspected that some of the 
kids in the class knew someone who needed that phone num-
ber. I want them to know that I am accessible to them." 

Saxon has been teaching the Ethnoliterature class for two 
years. The 19 students read thinkers from Buddha to Bacon 
and discuss issues ranging from religious ethics to ethnicity in 
contemporary America. The eclecticism of the course might 
prove daunting to some instructors, but Saxon has never limit-
ed himself to teaching just one subject. At Hillhouse he also 
teaches Psychology and two lunchtime seminars. He coordi-
nates the school's Gifted and Talented Program, as well as an 
after-school International Studies Program and a Saturday 
enrichment session. He teaches a Yale Residential College 
Seminar about urban education, and in his free time, cheers his 
students on at Hillhouse basketball games. 

Although not all of his students are members of the 
Gifted and Talented program, Saxon teaches primarily what 
school administrators call "high-echelon" students. Roughly 
10 percent of Hillhouse's student body falls into this category, 
including all of the students in the Ethnoliterature class. "The 
kids in Ethnoliterature are definitely among the better kids in 
the tenth grade," Saxon says. "Since September, ten of the 19 
32 The New Journal 
kids have not missed a single day of school." 

"It's my favorite class," says sophomore Craig Moore. 
Ethnoliterature gives Moore and his classmates the chance to 
critique their readings and each others' work through discus-
sion. One student faults the defense in the mock trial for hav-
ing "a long, extraneous closing statement." And when the dis-
cussion moves into a reading from German artist Kathe 
Kollewitz's musings on love, the students clamor for a chance 
to read aloud. Afterwards, Saxon asks them to write questions 
about the reading, and one student writes, "If love is so 
painful, what is so good about love?" 

When the students aren't asking such questions, they are 
chattering, passing candy to each other, and mocking Saxon's 
sense of humor. "Most teachers discipline their students to the 
point where the kids are comatose," Saxon says. "I don't do 
that. If anything, I tend to overstimulate my students." He 
chats with them about their love lives, their families, and their 
extracurricular activities-and he tries to relate their experi-
ences to the academic world. Ethnoliterature student Alethea 
Sealy recalls a recent debate."We had a debate in class on 
which do you succeed in more--higher education or sports 
and entertainment?" says Sealy. "Higher education won." 

When the bell rings, several Ethnoliterature students stay 
after class to help Saxon arrange the chairs for his next class, 
Psychology. Unlike other Hillhouse classes, where students sit 
in rows, Saxon's students sit in a semicircle. Psychology is a 
senior elective, and the students are more sedate than the 
younger Ethnoliterature pupils. They also seem well-versed in 
the lingo, using phrases like "positive reinforcement" and 
"Oedipal stage." Today's discussion centers on Erik Erikson's 
eight stages of human development; most students prefer 
Erikson's theory to Freud's more rigid phases of childhood. 

Saxon says that discussions can sometimes get unruly. "Last 
week I asked, 'What happens if a boy never resolves the 
Oedipus complex?' And one kid said, 'He becomes a homo-
sexual,"' he recalls. "That was basically the end of the class. 
Everybody was yelling and screaming." 

Though the students sometimes disrupt class, they still 
respect their teacher. "He's like a father to us," said Sealy. 

To many of his students, Dr. Burt Saxon has become a surrogate father. 
"There's no one in the class who downs him." Saxon has equal 
admiration for his students. "They're all really bright kids. Out 
of 13 students in Psychology, I think ten will go on to some 
form of higher learning next year. One just got a basketball 
scholarship to Quinnipiac College." 

While Saxon doubts that any of his senior students will 
end up at Yale, he holds high hopes for the two juniors in his 
lunchtime seminars. One seminar student has chosen to study 
psychology, the other Western Civilization, but Saxon has 
managed to interweave the topics in his discussions. The stu-
dents recently got into a heated argument over the literary and 
philosophical merits of B.F. Skinner's Walden Two-hardly 
typical high school fare. "The seminar is definitely not a tradi-
tional class," says Assistant Principal Ernest Roth. "I've sat in 
on a few of the seminars-he's very good at motivating stu-
dents and getting good discussion going." 

Saxon used to teach more seminars than he does now, in 
topics ranging from East Asian Studies to Law. He wishes that 
he could teach 40 students in seminars instead of just a few, 
but he does not have enough time to expand the program. 
Even if he did, other academic offerings like Yale's Branch 
tutoring and the International Studies program have been 
drawing potential students away from the seminars. "It seems 
like everyone wants to teach the best kids," he sighs. "It goes 
against our American concept of fairness. Why should the bet-
ter kids get all the resources? But they're the kids who give the 
most response. And when you concentrate on a small group of 
kids, you get better results." 


Saxon focuses a lot of attention on 
the several programs he currently 
supervises. Administration takes up 
about 60 percent of Saxon's time-and 
all of his weekday afternoons. He 
spends four hours a day running 
errands for the International Studies 
teachers, talking to students, and selling 
potato chips to earn the International 
Studies program some petty cash. After 
venturing downstairs to make copies 
four times in 20 minutes, he collapses in 
his office in the library. "That's my new 
world record for trips to the Xerox 
machine," he says. "Sometimes I feel 
like a human paper sorter in this job. 
There's a part of me that wishes I could 
teach all day." 

Saxon knew by 1967, his sopho-
more year at Carleton College in 
Minnesota, that he wanted to teach. 
Growing up in Plainfield, Illinois, the son 
of the town's only attorney, he felt considerable pressure to 
take over his father's law practice after college. "But I didn't 
want to do that," he says. "I wanted to start off on my own, 
and I had a real calling to education. I knew I wasn't going to 
make a lot of money, but I didn't mind." After graduating 
from Carleton, he received a master's degree at Wesleyan 
University, and went directly to the New Haven school district 
to teach social studies. 'Wesleyan had a reputation for turning 
out a lot of radicals," Saxon recalls. 

In 1970, Saxon took his first job in New Haven, and apart 
from a two-year leave of absence in the mid-70s to earn a doc-
torate in education at Columbia University, he has spent his 
entire professional life in the city's public schools. In 1980, he 
earned a promotion, moving from Lee High School to 
Hillhouse to coordinate the school's Gifted and Talented pro-
gram. 

In 1976, he began teaching urban education in the Yale 
Residential College Seminar Program. The course is one of his 
many ties to Yale; in addition to coordinating the International 
Studies program with Yale faculty, he invites Yale students of 
various ethnic backgrounds to address the Ethnoliterature 
class. "I like to work on the cutting edge between the high 
school and the university," he says. While he believes that Yale 
faculty and undergraduates help the New Haven public 
schools immensely, he complains that Yale does not do its 
share at the institutional level to improve relations with the 
community. Several years ago, when Saxon was teaching in a 
joint Yale-New Haven college preparatory program, the 



**Short Distance from TD**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Short Distance from TD 
Open Mon.-Fri. 7 a.m.-6 p.m. 
Sat. 7a.m. -4 p.m. 
Sun. 7a.m.-2p.m. 
91 Audubon St. 
497-9800


**The Rules of Attraction**
**Author: Suneeta Hazra**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

"You can say it's stupid, but I don't have 
to worry about getting killed, or getting 
shot at out of a window," said Joey 
D'Amico, a senior at The New Haven 
Sound School. To escape the violence 
that he thinks pervades the city's tradi-
tional high schools, D'Amico chose the 
Sound School, one of five magnet high 
"Magnets are just 
smaller schools, so 
they have the same 
problems on a smaller 
scale. " 
schools. Called "schools of choice," 
these magnets pull 1,500 students from 
all over the city by offering specialized 
academics and close teacher-student 
relations. Their small size and experi-
mental nature provide an alternative to 
large, comprehensive city schools. 

New Haven's schools of choice got 
their start in the late days of the Civil 
Rights movement. The 1970 New Haven 
Black Panther trials and the accompany-
ing school riots forced the public to scru-
tinize the local school system, uncover-
ing severe segregation in New Haven's 
public schools. George Foote, then a 
teacher at Hillhouse High School, 
thought that magnet schools would be 
an innovative solution to public 
demands for reform and voluntary 
desegregation. 

With several other 
Hillhouse teachers, he applied for a state 
grant to start a magnet program in New 
Haven. The first new school opened in 
1971. The program's goal: to give public 
school students the same privileges as 
wealthier kids, in particular the oppor-
tunity to choose one's high school. 


Each school of choice features a 
different "magnet" designed to attract 
students-from humanities at the High 
School in the Community to marine life 
at the Sound School. While recruiters 
encourage students to consider their 
interests before applying, some apply 
just to get out of the comprehensive 
high schools. Many say they are afraid 
of Wilbur Cross and Hillhouse. "My 
mother had heard too many stories of 
violence at Cross. She didn't want to 
find out if they were true," a Sound 
School senior said. Another said he got 
into too many fights at Cross. Lottery 
determines admission to the schools, 
ensuring racial and intellectual diversity. 

Magnet classes feature more 
hands-on activity than their counter-
parts at comprehensive schools. At the 
High School in the Community, individ-
ual classes meet for up to three hours 
each day, allowing time for field trips 
and research in New Haven. Students in 
a law class, for example, attend trials in 
the New Haven courthouse. Members of 
a journalism class conduct interviews in 
their neighborhoods. 

Each magnet school has a core cur-
riculum encompassing subjects such as 
math and English and offers electives 
within its concentration. The Sound 
School, for example, offers only marine 
electives. The optional classes at the 
Cooperative High School center on busi-
ness and computers. 

To keep their brand of teaching 
effective, the magnet schools limit 
enrollment to between 200 and 250 stu-
dents. This size allows teachers to give 
students individual attention. 

Jeff 
Granoff, a science teacher at the Sound 
School, values the closeness of his rela-
tionship with his students. "I teach them 
to develop social skills, and to under-
stand what's going on around them." 

Teachers can stay close to their students. 
They notice if somebody is skipping 
class. If need be, they can even act as 
surrogate parents, helping students 
through emotional crises. When one 
magnet student began missing classes, 
her teachers discovered that she was 
pregnant and offered her counseling. 

But the small-school atmosphere 
has its drawbacks. Some students com-
plain that the schools are too small and 
too insular. Everybody, they say, knows 
everybody else's business. Other stu-
dents miss the school spirit of big high 
schools. Briceida Trujill, student body 
president of the Sound School, com-
plains her school is too small for suc-
cessful school dances or intramural 
sports teams. She wishes the magnet 
schools could be bigger. 

Robert Cannelli, principal of the 
High School in the Community, thinks 
the magnets' small size attracts students 
who are more motivated and involved 
in academics. Ninety percent of High 
School in the Community seniors scored 
higher on the SAT than their peers at 
Cross and Hillhouse. Some teachers, 
however, contest the notion that the 
city's high-achieving children flock to 
Lottery determines 
admission, ensuring 
racial and intellectual 
diversity 
the magnets. Jon Buell, history teacher at 
the Sound School, says that students 
come from a variety of backgrounds. 

Because of their small size and lim-
ited funding, magnets cannot offer all 
the services of comprehensive high 
schools. To cover extra expenses, such as 
boat equipment at the Sound School and 
The New Journal 35 

computers at the Cooperative High 
School, administrators have eliminated 
varsity athletics a nd dramatically 
increased teacher workloads. The cuts 
have left student athletes resentful. 

More importantly, the budget con-
straints and active participation in stu-
dent life spead teachers thin. "I like the 
smallness, which allows us to focus on 
the kids. But sometimes I feel over-
w helmed," explained Anne Solomon, a 
counselor a t the Cooperative High 
School. At the Sound School, instructors 
normally teach four classes although 
their contracts o nly bind them to two. 
And since the electives that magnets 
offer change frequently, faculty mem-
bers must revamp their lesson plans 
each year. An instructor could be teach-
ing maritime history and botany one 
year, world history and marine biology 
the next. 

Cost-cutting measures have kept 
magnet budgets in line with those of 
comprehensive high schools, but some 
parents in the school system still think 
the magnets get too much money. "I 
dislike the fact that some schools are 
chosen to have special programs that are 
super-enriched," said Barbara Pynn, the 
co-president 
of 
the 
Edgewood 
Elementary School's Parent-Teache r 
Association. ''That's not fair. I'd rather 
see the money spent across the board." 

Fair or not, the dollars that go to 
magnet schools get results. More mag-
net students go on to college than their 
comprehens·ive school peers. 

But 
Hillhouse Vice Principal Syd Lillick . 
asserts that the mag11et schools are not · 
necessarily better thar comprehensive 
high schools. "I don't know if they are 
better able to help the kids. They are 
just smaller schools so they have the 
same problems on a smaller scale," she 
said. Teachers at magnet schools point 
out that their students suffer from prob-
lems such as teenage pregnancy and 
drug use. "The magnets a re supposed 
to help the inner-city kids, but they 
don't at all," said Buell. " It's easier in 
theory than in practice." 

Foote, however, believes magnet 
students gain much more than they lose 
by leaving comprehensive high schools 
for small, focused environments. He 
would like the whole education system 
to consist solely of schools of choice. In 
magnet schools, he,~ays, the kids get the 
attention they need and they learn 
things they enjoy. "We~re doing some-
thing they think makes sense," he said. 
"It's rare that we adults ever do that." 

Suneeta Hazra, a junior in Calhoun College, 
is on the staff ofTNJ. 

Individual attention and marine studies attract students to the Sound School, a New Haven "school of choice." 
36 The New Journal 



**Title: Afterthought**
**Author: Edith MacMullen**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Afterthought/Edith MacMullen 
Education en Vogue 
Strike a pose, there's nothing to it 
Education is clearly in. Both the flood of 
articles and the rash of TV shows-not 
"crises." 
Performance 
budgeting, 
accountability, community control, 
school-based management, and teacher 
empowerment are policy slogans that 
have been successively, but not successfully, adopted over the past ten years 
alone. Cooperative learning is now the 
rage, replacing the fad for grouping of a 
to mention registration in Yale classes-
give proof of the passionate public concern for our country's schools and for 
the quality of education available for our 
future workers and voters. But the current 
discussion suffers from certain 
habitual national weaknesses: our lack of 
an historical perspective, our propensity 
for faddism and our yearning for the 
quick fix, our preference for constant, 
agonized criticism over sustained commitment and consistent action, and, 
most crucial of all, our inability to recognize and to accept our ambivalence 
about goals for education. We simply do 
not ask the hard questions often enough; 
nor do we examine proposed solutions 
with a vigilant eye. 


Historians often describe cycles in 
American history. In the discourse on 
education, the pendulum swings 
between vacillation and commitment. 
Each generation must rediscover the 
wheel of misfortune in the history of 
schooling. Johnny could not read in the 
'60s, and Joanne can neither read nor calculate in the '90s. The antebellum 
reformers decried the lack of academic 
preparation among beginning teachers; 
today's students in education courses 
are reported to have the lowest 
Scholastic Aptitude Test scores of any 
group of pre-professional registrants. 
Benjamin Franklin attacked the traditional 
grammar schools because they 
prepared young men only for specific 
and limited roles, and progressives in 
the '20s had the same criticism of high 
schools. 


Still, parents, principals, and policy 
makers alike bemoan the passing of the 
golden age of schools, a time when students trooped eagerly to class in search 
of truth and willingly followed every 
suggestion of respected adults. In fact, 
as fiction and biography amply demonstrate, that golden age never existed. In 
the 19th century, schools were in session 
for far shorter periods of time. Children 
attended with appalling irregularity. 
Less than half the youngsters between 
the ages of 14 and 17 were enrolled in 
high school in 1930, and the majority of 
the boys who began high school soon 
withdrew. This caused the much discussed "boy problem" (an aspect of 
which was that girls did so much better 
in school than boys) which led to curricular reorganization and "reform." That 
reform was partially responsible for a 
tracking and guidance apparatus which 
systematically slotted children into niches purportedly suitable to their class, origin, and destiny. (This of course persists 
although with less blatant justification.) 
And whether the source was Ichabod 
Crane or the Lynds' Middletown, teachers 
were more frequently the object of 
ridicule than respect. 


Even when we admit that the evidence indicates that our schools are not 
as effective as we would like and refuse 
to admit that societal conditions may 
contribute to their weaknesses, we constantly look for quick solutions to 
few years past. Some ten years ago 
a Connecticut adopted a law that provided for forgiveable loans (with the splendid acronym ELEET) to undergraduates 
who entered teacher training programs 
and taught for three years in the state. 
The law was repealed two years later 
because it was deemed ineffective-
although the students who had received 
the loans were still in college. No medical advance would be judged on such 
short term and undocumented research. 


Faddism and unexamined assumptions are characteristic of so many of the 
"expert" reports issued since 1983's 
Nation at Risk. One reason is overlapping membership among the panels that 
author them; Albert Shanker has been a 
busy man this decade. Similar conclusions have led to similar legislative and 
regulatory activity-teacher qualifications and high school graduation 
requirements throughout the fifty states 
have come closer and closer to a national 
standard without federal action (and 
that, of course, would violate one of the 
shibboleths of educational dogma, local 
control). Yet there is not a smidgeon of 
conclusive evidence that any one of the 
reforms will work better than last year's. 


Practitioners in the field must share 
the blame. Educators may be among the 
most conservative of all professionals. 
Most went into the field because they 
enjoyed their own schooling and were 
comfortable in a familiar environment; 
they teach and administer the way they 
know. Too often, when given an opportunity to participate in decisions and to 
right the wrongs they attack, teachers 


have proven cowardly. A skilled superintendent in this state proposed that the 
teachers in his district run a school. He 
was willing to seek legislative waivers 
for stringent regulations, but he had no 
takers. No one was willing to take the 
risk. It was easier to complain. 


It is comfortable and certainly correct to be aware and to express concern-to read Fred Hechinger in the 
Times or listen to John Chancellor deliver 
bites of insight. Evidence of commitment can be volunteering in a school-
until reading week or until it gets too 
discouraging-or teaching at Ulysses S. 
Grant for a term. Two years as a Teach 
for America beginner or in a private 
school are possibilities before getting on 
with the real business of life. Last year 
less than 20 Yale undergraduates prepared themselves for positions in the 
public schools, those objects of national 
condemnation. But of course, who 
would go to Yale only to become a 
teacher? 


All of this must sound suspiciously 
like an unjust tirade, and it is unfair to 
the many, many dedicated and unsung 
students, researchers, and teachers, here 
at Yale and throughout the country, who 
struggle day by day, quarter by quarter, 
board meeting after board meeting, for 
the cause of schooling. But they also suffer under practices and philosophies 
that go unexamined, but accepted. Who 
decided that learning should be presented in 36 or 48 or 52 minute segments? 
Who decided that geometry had to come 
between algebra I and algebra II? Why 
do you have to be five to go to kindergarten? Or 18 to go to college? Is 18 the 
optimum number for a seminar and 25 
for a high school history class? These 
are obvious and easy questions; what 
about who should go to college and 
what does a high school diploma mean 
anyway? 


There are enormous and unadmitted disagreements about the direction 
education should take in the next decade 
or century. These revolve around precisely the same questions that were 
debated by Horace Mann and the school 
masters of Boston, by Charles Eliot and 
the classics teachers in 1893, by Admiral 
Rickover and the progressives in their 
last gasp, and now by Allan Bloom and 
the curriculum specialists advocating a 
multicultural curriculum. The issues 
have to do with whether our schools 
should be inclusive or exclusive, 
whether our courses of study should be 
liberal or vocational, theoretical or pragmatic, whether we include moral and 
social goals or attempt to concentrate on 
more purely conceptual ones. And how 
should we evaluate the success or failure 
(we always want things simple) of our 
educational endeavor? SAT scores? 
Student standing in international math 
competitions? Or perhaps athletic competitions, given the money spent on 
sports? Yet one British researcher proposed job retention rates rather than O-
level scores as a better measure of school 
effectiveness. The point remains: what 
measures do we value? 


Searching discussions about educational matters are not comfortable, for 
they may reveal the true failure of our 
educational policy and system-the fact 
that the reality is so removed from the 
rhetoric. The possibility of lasting 
renewal in educational institutions is in 
doubt-unless committed participants 
stay the course.

Edith MacMullen directs Yale's teacher 
preparation program.


**Title: None**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
with your gene 
P.O. BOX 1890, 155 WHITNEY 
77% 
86% 
92% 
85% 
84% 
91% 
77°/o 
100% 
93% 
IFUN 
HAVEN, CT 06508 203-432-6076 
1890 

