Publication date: August 2, 1994
Volume: 27
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Jay Porter


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About this Issue
Points of Departure
Vintage Voice: The Underworld Around Us - Groff Hayward
Between the Vines: Change of Address - Jay Porta
Afterthought: When Cities Go Green - Morgan Grovr
Ethnic Studies: Ghetto or Glue? - Caroline Kim
The Writing on the Stall - Rosemary Hutzler
Charlie Chan: Death by Diversity - Suzanne Kim


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: Vintage Voice: The Underworld Around Us**
**Author: Groff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 14**



**Title: Between the Vines: Change of Address**
**Author: Jay Porta**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Afterthought: When Cities Go Green**
**Author: Morgan Grovr**
**Page number(s): 36**



**Title: Ethnic Studies: Ghetto or Glue?**
**Author: Caroline Kim**
**Page number(s): 20**


Will increasing Yale's commitment co blue-book diversity isolate minority scholars or promote common ground culture?


**Title: The Writing on the Stall**
**Author: Rosemary Hutzler**


Our intrepid sleuth makes a brief foray into the underworld of Yale graffiti.


**Title: Charlie Chan: Death by Diversity**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**


A new anthology of contemporary Asian-American shore fiction shatters the pop-culture icon to make room for a dazzling array of fresh images.


**Title: Mining for Meaning**
**Author: Kate Schuler**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I'm staring at Harold Bloom. Stacks of 
books surround him. Sweat beads on his 
forehead. The revered Yale professor and 
literary theorist looks mildly annoyed by 
the sun's heat and the dust from the 
construction behind him. He sits cross-legged, wearing a suit and tie, in the 
middle of the Grand Canyon. Clearly this 
is not my English 207 seminar. My eyes 
stay flXed on his, and I laugh out loud. 

I am at the Museum of Fine Arts in 
Boston, viewing an exhibit of paintings by 
Mark Tansey. As an artist and a thinker, 
Tansey wallows in the 
depths of theory. 
To 
understand his work, you 
must understand hi's vast 
knowledge of literature, art, 
and philosophy, his sense of 
humor, and his WheeL 
(1990). The Wheel is 
actually three wheels, 
the 
inner 
containing 
grammatical subjects, the 
middle encompassing verbs, and the outer 
listing objects. The words and phrases 
draw from the language of critical and 
theoretical literature. Spin the wheel and 
you can get "Derrideans encountering 
uncontrolled metaphor" or "Dialecticians 
updating lexical lacuna." (There are 
5,832,000 possible combinations.) 

Tansey's paintings put a new spin on 
historical artistic themes. In Triumph of the 
New York School (1984), he dresses 
Frenchmen Andre Breton and Henri 
Matisse, among others, in World War 1 
uniforms and depicts them surrendering to 
World War II era Americans, namely 
Clement Greenberg, Jackson Pollock, and 
Robert Motherwell. The composition 
portrays a typical battle scene, complete 
with tanks, artillery, and exploding bombs. 
A classic Tansey work-unexpected, yet 
amusing if you get it. It shouldn't be too 
extraordinary, then, to encounter Harold 
Bloom at the bottom of the Grand 
Canyon. 

Yale has turned out more than a few 
influential artists-Ciaes Oldenburg, 
Martin Puryear, Maya Lin, Richard Serra. 
But Harold Bloom may be the first Yale 
critic immortalized as the influence, so to 
speak, for a painting. 

Constructing the Grand Canyon ( 1990) 
presents Tansey's vision of deconstruction, 
realized in oil paint on an overwhelming 
expanse of canvas. Harold Bloom is not 
the only one there. Behind him, several 
men build a teepee. One man holds a "Y" 
flag alluding to the "Yale school" of 
criticism. Buffalo watch the scene from 
afar and mules transport debris. Yale's 
celebrated Paul DeMan labors there too, 
carting a wheelbarrow 
across the canyon floor. 

French critics Michel 
Foucault, Jacques Derrida, 
and Roland Barthes join 
them as well. Foucault 
perches precariously on the 
top of a bluff. All of the 
men struggle with various 
tools, hacking, mining, 
pulling 
away 
at 
boulders of the Grand Canyon. The 
canyon is actually made of silk-screened 
text, the boulders constructed of words. 
The men pry apart the canyon's fault lines, 
searching for meaning, but encountering 
only more layers of textualized sediment. 
No 
cushy 
lit 
seminars 
here. 

Deconscructing this text requires hard 
physical labor, not exactly the picture of 
refined intellectual pursuits. 

Tansey's absurdism humanizes his 
subjects. Bloom's stern face seems destined 
for immortalization in the rows of stone-
faced portraits that line residential college 
dining halls. But Tansey lets us laugh. 
Constructing the Grand Canyon spells out 
the paradox of deconstruction-far from 
filling in the gaps, it merely digs the hole 
deeper. Harold Bloom may loom large ilt 
Yale, but in Tansey's painting he is 
dwarfed by the canyon he helped create. 

-Kate Schukr 
Coming next issue: more "Fables of the 
Deconstruction."


**Title:  Untitled (Editorial)**
**Author: JGP**
**Page number(s): 5**

Summer does strange things to Yalies. We wax nostalgic for even the most subtle textures of 
life in New Haven: the Wa, three a.m. street sweepings, Woodchuck Cider on tap. Three 
months of relaxing and well-paid internships can make even Orgo Lab and the lines at the 
Bursar's Office sound appealing. 

We didn't realize it at first, but summer has made us miss theory, something we take for granted 
at Yale but which "the real world" lacks-and even scorns. (Those overqualified interns who can 
perform epistemological analyses of Henry V while Xeroxing purchase orders learn quickly not to 
discuss these thoughts with their employers.) Who could have imagined this rather embarrassing 
sentiment in the dog days of May? Not us. 

So when Kate Schuler spotted Harold Bloom at the bottom of 
the Grand Canyon in a Mark Tansey painting a few weeks ago, she 
was shocked by the depth of her feelings. There sat Mr. Theory 
himself, looking typically rumpled, reminding her of the joys of 
literary analysis. 

Rosemary Hutzler had a similar experience as she assembled her 
notes on Yale graffiti-the fumbling for the familiar language of 
analysis to explain the unexpected. Was it Foucault who wrote about 
reading a culture by what it hides, or was it Said? Never mind: 
language just points to a lack anyway. 

Twelve years ago, Geoff Hayward and Tom Feigelson developed a 
theory to explain the grotesque sense of humor that inspired Yale's gargoyles. We have revived their 
story under the rubric "Vintage Voice," our newest standard. The theory behind the addition: our 
archives deserve to be shared. 

Sometimes hungry critics lost in the wilderness must sustain themselves on the most banal and 
juvenile of entertainments: witness Jay Porter's account of widespread attempts to make meaning 
from the televised misadventures of morally challenged Angelinos and huge yellow birds. 

Suzanne Kim's review of Charlie Chan is Dead provides richer reminders of the beauty and 
power of theory in action. The anthology of new Asian-American fiction shatters simpleminded 
stereotypes and replaces them with fresh images. The writers employ shock and anti-nostalgia, 
working to reclaim the symbols of oppression. At least those are the words Yale has given us to 
describe their iconoclastic efforts. 

By Thanksgiving, theory is easy to come by and hard to forget. We may groan about literary 
jargon when the time comes to write final papers, but for now we're content to make up for lost 
time and enjoy the company of a sorely missed friend. 

-JGP 
SEPTEMBER 2, 1994 


ARETHUSA 
BC>C>K S:F-I:C>P 
Out of print and used books 
Essential reading from 
Baudelaire to Einstein to 
Willa Cather. 
87 Audubon Street 
New Haven, CT 06511 
(203)624-1848 


SHOP 
21 Broadway, New~ 
15 
o;0 
The on~ (1) most 
Off 
expenSIVe Item 
you purchase. 


VALE
T-Shirts • Sweatshirts • Hats 
Souvenirs • Kid Stuff, & More -
1217 CHAPEL STREET 
787-3988 


Film Developing Sale 1 
112 exp .......................... 1.99 I 
1
15 exp .......................... 2. 99 
24 exp .......................... 3.99 I 
h6 exp .......................... 5.99 I 
I
IEcono- 1 each 3 X 5 glossy prints Ia) 1
C-41 negatives only 
coupon must accompany orders, expires 10/2/94 


* DARKROOM SUPPLIES 
* INSTANT PASSPORT 
PHOTOS 
*CAMERA REPAIRS 
* USED EQUPMENT 
BOUGHT II SOLD 



**Title: Ethnic Studies: Ghetto or Glue?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ethnic Studies: Ghetto or Glue? 
Will increasing Yale's commitment to blue-book diversity isolate 
minority scholars or promote common-ground culture? 
D 
ay one of a seminar in Latino-American social policy: a 
dozen students sit around a table. They glance around 
and shuffle their papers. A professor walks to the front 
of the room and begins his introductory remarks. For a 
moment, the room stops in silent surprise-a dozen mouths hang 
open. The students had assumed the teacher would be Latino-
American-how often does a non-Hispanic scholar pursue study in 
Latino-American affairs? 


Increasingly, students press for more classes that focus on the 
cultural experiences of diverse racial, ethnic, and religious groups. 
one of a srring of disappointing policies. "The couple of meetings 
we had seemed just talk to appease the complaints," comments 
Maricella Ramirez (ES '96), president of el Movimiento Estudantil 
Chicano de Aztlan (MEChA). "I appreciate the effort, but I'm 
extremely disappointed with the results," says Mary Li Hsu, 
assistant dean of Yale College and coordinator of Asian-American 
affairs. 


Compared to other schools, Yale lags behind in minority 
faculty representation. In 1990-1991, Harvard conducted a 
confidential survey on minority representation in "comparable 
Simultaneously, Yale's administration 
struggles to confront growing student, 
alumni, and faculty concern over the lack of 
minority scholars on campus. Ethnic studies 
"We know that there is 
universities." Yale ranked eleventh out of 17 
in tenured minority faculty, and fifteenth out 
of 16 in term-time minority faculty. 


According to Valeriano Ramos, assistant dean 
and coordinator of Puerto-Rican Affairs, Yale 
has no Chicano-American or Puerto-Rican 
American faculty, while University of 
and 
minority 
representation 
seem 
inextricably linked. Student discussion of one 
topic often spills over into the other. 


Expressing this link in terms of concrete 
university policy has proven complex, but as 
frustration grows over slow change in the 
ethnic diversity of Yale's faculty, ethnic 
studies programs continue to gain support as 
ethnic studies," says 
associate provost 
Arlene McCord. "What 
Connecticut and Central Connecticut State 
University, each have one professor from each 
minority group. 


a partial solution. 
that generally means 
gets a little muddy." 


Last year, Yale offered positions to at least 
four minority scholars; only one accepted. 


Why do promising candidates turn down 
Across the country, minority scholars 
have become highly sought-after commodities, and Yale loses many 
of these candidates to other schools. Current efforts to boost 
minority representation in the Yale faculty run the gamut, 
depending on departmental policy, from making a few phone calls 
to conducting extensive searches for qualified minority candidates. 


Yale administrators, however, boast a considerable commitment to 
minority recruitment. "We want to make sure that if any hiring 
practices in the university fail to equally consider minorities, [we 
will] make them absolutely cease," says Richard Brodhead, Dean of 
Yale College. Arlene McCord, Associate Provost of Yale College, 
adds that the Provost's Office has been making the best possible 
monetary offers to draw candidates, but potential faculty reject Yale 
for otherreasons. 


The university created the Minority Advisory Council to 
investigate the problems of low minority 
representation. But members of the Cou-ncil 
describe it as ineffective and irrelevant, seeing it as 
APRIL 2, 1994 
Yale? One of the four, Henry Yoon, a 
Chinese-American who specializes in Asian-American history, says 
he took a post at Berkeley partially due to Yale's lack of a tenure 
track. Such "pipeline issues" pose a structural hindrance to 
increasing minority faculty. Yale, as an elite institution, tends to 
seek leading scholars who are established in their fields, rather than 
promoting from within. 


Among <he factors that impede Yale's progress toward better 
minority representation is the absence of a significant community 
of minority scholars. And without this critical mass, Yale may seem 
unattractive or unwelcoming to minority candidates. The current 
situation also loads onto the few minority faculry the burden of 
special responsibilities, from counseling minority students to 
serving on minority committees. "Any time any kind of minority 
issue appears in a publication, I get quoted and therefore people 
tend to think of me on those terms," says Gerald 
Jaynes, chair of African-American Studies. "I think 
some people would shy away from that." 


7 


--- Page 8 ---

in THE 
-~ 
B.s:)IV-
~-
::omputtr Scichcc a~ 
maria (B.A. or B. 
::ompurer Science a~ 
ogy (B.A.) III or I 
:.ut Aaiao Studies (• 
Japan) (B.A.) I, D 
THE UNDE~URRICULUM 
Jaynes has become an expert on this 
topic. In 1992, a faculty group he 
chaired produced the "First Report of 
the Presidenr's Commiuee to Monitor 
the Recruitment and Retention of 
Disabled, Minority, and Women 
Faculty" (the Jaynes Report). In 
contrast 
to 
prior 
university investigations into minority 
representation, the Jaynes committee 
did not confine itself to traditional 
affirmative action strategies. Rather, 
they suggested approaches that would 
tackle subtleties involved in critical 
mass and pipeline issues. 


8 


C
an ethnic studies succeed as a 
mechanism for improving minority 
representation at Yale? Proponents 
of such a link tout the African-American 
studies department as evidence, as the 
overwhelming majority of African-
American professors on campus have 
joined that ethnic studies program. 


American minority scholars are not 
confined to ethnically-related fields of 
study; nor are whites excluded from them. 


The majority of professors in ethnic 
studies, however, do come from ethnic 
groups. According to Ann Fabian, 
professor of American studies and acting 
chair of the ethnic studies steering 
committee, last year's two top candidates 
for Chicano studies happened to be 
Chicano-American, and the Asian-
American studies candidates happened to 
be Asian-American. 


As in these cases, most scholars choose 
a field of study closely associated with their 
backgrounds. Jaynes writes in his 1991 
article, "OnJy Blacks Need Apply," in the 
journal Ruomtruction, "At present, and 
probably for some period into the future, 
the majority of competently trained 
African Americanists are and will be 
black .... Surely, any school whose African 


THE. Nt!W jOURNAL 


--- Page 9 ---

American studies program is dominated by 
white scholars would be more chan suspect 
of discriminating against blacks." 


The specter of ghettoization hangs over 
ethnic studies. The argument goes that if 
Yale recruits minority scholars specifically 
to serve in its ethnic studies programs, the 
minorities hired might find themselves 
limited to studying only ethnic issues. 


Their obligations to their respective ethnic 
studies programs could inhibit their 
interaction in broader inter- and intra-
departmental discourse. As a result, ethnic 
studies programs would spawn ethnic 
"ghettos" separated from the rest of the 
faculty and students. For fear of such a 
"In a way I feel 
cheated," says 
MEChA President 
Maricella Ramirez, 
"This is my university. 
Why can't I learn 
about the community 
I come from? Even 
Swedish and German 
universities have 
Chicano studies." 
scenario, Kang-i Sun Chang, professor of 
Chinese literature and chair of East Asian 
Languages and Literatures, resists the link 
between ethnic studies and minority 
represemation. "I rhink it is much better 
for minority people to focus on unity and 
similarity," she says. 


Those with experience in ethnic studies 
programs dismiss such qualms about 
ghettoization. Advocates do not by any 
means envision a policy of hiring only 
minorities for ethnically related fields. Such 
a policy would prove detrimental to the 
legitimacy and quality of these programs. 


SEPTEMBER 2, 1994 
--- ~-
--~--~----- -----
"People use the phrase 'ghetto' but about 
half our African-American studies faculty 
is white," says Jaynes. "We hire the best 
person." However, Jaynes elaborates in 
"Only Blacks Need Apply": "Under 
pressure to increase the number of black 
faculty, and often acutely aware that large 
segments of the university are either 
indifferent or resistant to the efforts to seek 
out and hire minority professors, they 
accede to exclusively black hiring in 
African American studies and sometimes 
tacitly promote it." 


This view brings up the hotly 
contested controversy over whether 
deliberate minority recruitment-that is, 
overt affirmative action-is a valid 
practice. Ethnic studies provides a 
convenient way to recruit more minority 
faculty without dealing with the 
controversy of giving special priority to 
minorities in hiring. 


But Associate Provost McCord, 
who is Japanese 
American, denies 
such an effect: "All 
Asians are not 
interested 
1n 
Asian-American 
studies. 
Good 
grief-1 
mean 
I'm not unin-
terested-! was in 
sociology 
studied 
race 
relations, but not 
vis-a-vis Asian-
American 
studies." She says 
the 
Provost's 
office has never 
discussed 
issue, but she 
believes 
other 
officials would 
share her position. 


The proposed 
link may not seem 
ideologically 
sound 
in 
abstract, but in 
reality, it may 
provide a solution. "In the ideal academy 
all ethnic groups are broadly represented 
everywhere; however, right now, there is a 
large connection of ethnic minorities with 
their [respective] ethnic studies," says 
Professor Ann Fabian. Jaynes adds, 
"Opponents mish-mash principle with 
practical argument. Certainly in principle, 
anyone ought to be able to teach any 
subject. My argument is that things don't 
stand where everything works according to 
principle." 


B
rodhead understands the gulf ~ 
between ideal and real. "The 
~ 
university has gradually increased fi 
commitment to ethnic studies, a subject g; 
... 
matter of great interest to students. It does .g_ 
provide a way to increase · minority 
representation." However, Brodhead also 
says that Yale can not develop any new -i 
programs without thinking about the 
whole of the university. "The students who 



**The Struggle for Ethnic Studies at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
want ro study ethnic studies don't want to 
find that they can't study something else," 
he says. "There's a financial matter. When 
adding a certain department, you might 
hurt others." 
One Yale minority student group 
leader, who prefers to remain anonymous, 
lumps Brodhead's explanation into what 
he calls the "administration's favorite 
excuse" to ward off demands for ethnic 
studies. In a panel discussion at Yale last 
year, one Japanese-American activist 
argued that creating new programs does 
not subtract from existing ones. "Don't 
ever buy the 'zero-sum game theory,"' he 
said. When the administration of a 
university defines a need, for example a 
new football scoreboard, it begins an effort 
to raise the funds from various 
organizations, trusts, and companies-it 
does not necessarily rake the money from 
current programs or causes. Rather than 
hindering current operations, it can 
benefit the university as a whole. 


T
~ncreas~ ~ 
i» 
i n g I y 
~ 
interdisciplinary 
character of the 
academic world 
g 
compl ita t es 
<e_ 
:::. 
matters further, 
"' 
making it nearly 
impossible to g 
.. draw the line 
:> 
S?.. 
between fields 
of 
scholar-
ship 
when 
establis hin g 
programs. "We 
know that there 
is a call to do 
various ethnic 
studies," 
says 
associate provost 
McCord. "What 
that gene.rally 
means gets a 
little 
muddy. 
Sometimes, for 
example, Korean students want Korean 
studies, but they mean East Asian, not 
Korean-American, and the two areas are 
very different. So sometimes the request is 
even muddy." McCord expresses concern 
over the complexity and difficulty in 
structuring ethnic studies courses. "In a 
group as complex as those people who call 
t hemselves Asian-Americans, we have 
Filipinos wanting representation, South 
Asians wanting representation ... everybody 
wants their own and they're not thinking 
about 'what would contribute to my 
education?"' 
Leaders from the Asian-American 
Student Alliance and Korean American 
Students of Yale recount that in meetings 
with administrators, university officials 
explain that they can not give one ethnic 
study a commitment because other groups 
would then want the same commitment, 
and there are not enough resources to 
provide for all the diverse groups. Says 
Linna Choi (ES '96), "I think we should 
look at African-American studies as a 
model. If we are able to create a 
department to house studies in such a 
diverse culrure, we can do it in an ethnic 
studies department." In the meantime, 
frustrations build on the campus about 
both ethnic studies and minority 
representation. "In a way I feel cheated," 
says MEChA President Ramirez, "This is 
my university. Why can't I learn about the 
community I come from? Even Swedish 
and German universities have Chicano 
studies." 


A
ide from its relevance to minority 
epresentation, ethnic studies stands 
s a necessary scholarly enterprise in 
its own right. "I don't argue that we should 
have ethnic studies just to get more 
minorities. That's secondary. I argue that 
we should do ethnic studies because it is a 
legitimate, scholarly, pedagogical goal for 
the American public, 
particularly 
academics," says Jaynes. "If we are to be 
sincere in understanding this culture, we 
have to know about these groups, and right 
now our knowledge of most is pitiful." 
Hsu discusses ethnic studies as but one 
issue under the larger concern of course-
curriculum priorities at Yale. "Let's say one 
scholar leaves a department, thus creating a 
vacancy; who's to say what's more 
important? It's the faculty. But as members 
of the university community, students 
should voice their input," she says. "I find 
very few fields of study which have a very 
definite idea of what needs to be taught." If 
in fact the Yale faculty decides the bulk of 
Yale curricula, who exactly constitutes the 
Yale faculty? Statistics in the Jaynes Report 
show a faculty about 94 percent white. 
European thought provided the founding 
base of America, but demographers predict 
our society will have a white minority by


**Title: Ethnic Studies at Yale**
**Author: Caroline Kim**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
20 l 0. One would expect faculty outrage 
that Yale does not offer programs that study 
issues dealing with significant populations of 
ethnic minorities. If Yale did not, for some 
reason, offer courses in French history, the 
faculty would not restrain their anger simply 
because the many courses in Spanish and 
British history would somehow compensate. 
The presence or absence of ethnic 
studies boils down to a matter of minority 
culture representation not only in the 
faculty but also in the curriculum. In a 
welcoming speech to the Yale College Class 
of 1994, Donald Kagan, professor of classics 
and history and then Dean of Yale College, 
suggested that Western culture alone could 
hold together all the diversity in America. "I 
think his premise is correct. We need some 
sort of glue," says Jaynes, "but I don't see 
European studies as a glue for the United 
States. The study of American civilization is 
that glue. This civilization is by definition 
something that has been made by all these 
people and cultures." 

Aside from attracting minority scholars 
who specialize in ethnic fields, ethnic 
studies has the potential to encourage 
minorities to enter academic careers by 
providing role models. A vast majority of 
"mainstream" fields that do not specifically 
address ethnic issues actually center on 
European- American issues. To include the 
study of the culture, history, and 
demographic impact of American ethnic, 
racial, and religious minorities in academics 
makes the ivory tower more welcoming and 
attractive to minority students. Building 
ethnic studies can begin to balance a 
racially and ethnically skewed academic 
perspective that maintains institutional 
discrimination in an 
increasingly 
multicultural society. America has long 
educated its leaders from a limited 
European-American perspective; increased 
awareness of ethnic issues through ethnic 
studies will dilute the underlying 
discrimination that continues to plague 
America's academic institutions. 
.-J 
Carolint Kim, a junior in Ezra Stiks Coikgt, 
is associatt dtsigntr ofTNJ. Sht is currmtiy 
talting a stmtsttr abroad in Paris. 


**Title: The Underworld Around Us**
**Author: Wesley Needham**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Look· up and laugh at Ya le's twisted gargoyles-before they laugh at you. 
Wl
esley Needham has known Sterling Library 
longer chan anyone. Fifty-two years ago he 
helped build it. In the intervening half-century 
he must have passed the check-out desk tens of 
thousands of times. But it wasn't until a short while ago that he 
noticed something unusual. 

High above the check-out desk, perched over the mural of 
Alma Mater, is a large sculptured vampire bat with its fangs bared 
in a fiendish laugh. Presiding over the magnificent entrance hall, it 
occupies the most commanding position in Sterling's "cathedral of 
learning." A position which in less secular cathedrals would be 
reserved for a guardian angel. 

In our gothic world we are surrounded 
by stone figures which give lasting 
expression to a strange commentary. 
Sometimes it is just distracting. Often it is 
satiric or secretly insulting. But at times it is 
openly condemning, sacrilegious, and even 
perverted. The voice comes down from the 
Gothic 
fa~ades with unpunctuated 
insistence, but so subtly that we don't 
consciously hear it. 

On the roof of Trumbull College's lower 
courtyard is the figure of a man perched on 
a stone potty with his pants down around 
his heels. Grinning foolishly, he defecates on 
the college below. "I don't like to pass it 
when I'm taking tours through the west 
court," says Needham. "I don't think it's a nice thing for ladies-
elderly or otherwise-to see. I've complained about it but no one 
seems to want to take it down." 

On Trumbull's Elm and High Street corner, the humor gets 
more perverse. A relief shows a devil blowing a horn as a dog 
mounts a drunken man-a symbol of sodomy. Another bas-relief 
beneath the defecating man shows more devils and strange ritual; a 
group of hooded and costumed people gather round laughing at a 
man in a coffin. The man appears to be 
masturbating. 

The most disturbing element in it all is the 
implied sacrilege. A statue on Davenport's York 
Street fa~ade shows the Lord and the devil 
conspiring in a joke. The devil grins slyly at the Lord, who hoots 
with laughter. The statue is not garish. And it only becomes 
offensive when you begin to wonder what it was meant to 
symbolize. 

At the far end of Sterling Archives is the circular Gothic vault 
originally used to house the Gutenberg Bible. Above the gates 
which protect the room are two suitably reverent religious figures. 
But faces of jesters and horned devillike creatures line the gates 
· themselves. More frightening than the presence of demons is their 
placement. Why devils on a gate which guarded a text of so much 
religious significance? 

In Sterling Library, the humor takes an 
anti-academic. twist. Lining the exhibition 
corridor, fourteen statuettes give satiric 
renditions of scholars. A student reads as a 
cloaked and hooded skeleton clings to his 
shoulder. A gluttonous drunken student 
smokes and gawks at a pin-up nude. The 
last statuette shows a student chortling over 
a book inscribed with the words "U.R.A. 
JOKE." 

Officially, at least, the statuettes were 
supposed to satirize not students, but 
different types of study. All the same, the 
student reading "U.R.A. JOKE" seems to 
bear the brunt of his own laughter. The 
cryptic message is more contemptuous than 
it is clever. Are we meant to laugh at the 
book, at the student, or at ourselves? 

One could go on and on. At the Law School, cynical, anti-
academic jokes abound. On the tops of the finials, four foot 
sculpted animals conduct a "mock trial" over the whole Law 
School. Wolves and parrots dress up as lawyers; their clients are 
donkeys and goats with money bags. On Grove Street, Justice falls 
at the mercy of a jester; her scales tip as a fool in cap and bells pulls 
a blindfold down over her eyes. 

There is something discomforting about the 
fun these buildings have at our expense. "It's not 
really very funny," protests former Master of 
Trumbull George Lord. "There is an eclecticism 
about it all which is very disturbing. Unlike at 
Oxford and Cambridge, the architecture here is inward-looking 
with a hostile streak toward the rest of the world." 

There is something odd in using an architecture to portray 
people defecating or devils masturbating when the institution is 
supposedly devoted to loftier pursuits. There is something 
dishonest about a building which on its fas;ades pays reverent 
tribute to divinity and in its interior makes a lasting and bitter 
mockery of it. "I think it's a little gross and a little demeaning," 
says Lord. "On a public act of creation an architect cannot ignore 
the symbolism of his work." 

B
ut the architect, James Gamble Rogers, was not one to ignore 
the little things in a building. He must have known. 
"(Rogers' firm] had been organized as very much an 
extension of his own personality," writes his grandson j.G. Rogers 
III. "It had been organized both to allow him maximum control 
over every aspect of the business and maximum freedom for 
himself ... Rogers' control on the design of the buildings went 
virtually unchecked." As Yale's consulting architect, Rogers had the 
power to create his own little university. In less than a decade he 
built the "new Yale"; Harkness Tower, Sterling Memorial Library, 
the Law School, the Graduate School, and nine of the colleges. He 
did it all with an obsession for detail and a mania for control which 
set him aparr from other architects. 

Rogers had little respect for the quibbling university 
committees set up to keep him in check. As they sar heatedly 
debating whether or not an apple should appear ar Isaac Newron's 
feet, he wrote, "I shall be very glad to do any or all of rhe work of 
the committee but there will arise a rime when the builders have to 
have models. In fact, they are howling for them now. Yes, howling 
is the word." 

Rogers repeatedly ignored the committee's ban on carving busts 
of living people. H e made sure he and his designers were 
immortalized in Indiana limestone wherever possible. Bur his 
egotism went beyond the desire to see his smiling face. As Yale's 
architect supreme, he was the author of a world of stone, and he 
was not above leaving a few cryptic messages. 

Take the curio us juxtaposition of two roof sculptures on 
symmetrically opposite sides of the Sterling Library. One is a Yale 
student bowed over his books as though in prayer. The other, a 
horned demon with a spiked tail, hunches over in the same pose. A 
long, thick, phallic tongue thrusts out past his chin as he grasps 
something unrecognizable tightly against his pelvis. When viewed 
side by side, it is hard to see the demon as anything but a satiric 
corruption of the Yalie. But it's nor a connection the average tourist 
is likely to make. The demon is hidden behind the Reserve Reading 
Room, so the two sculptures cannot be viewed simultaneously. 

All the sam~. the connection seems to have been deliberate and 
more than one person must have known abour it. Plasrer models 
for most of the library's sculptures were made, and shown to Rogers 
for approval. A Yale archives picture collection shows photographs 
of each model. 

But, the collecrion also shows that in the case of the two roof 
sculptures, a singular exception was made. Someone moved model 
31 (the student) next to model 98 (the demon) and took a picture 
of them side by side. A strange statement about students, which 
might otherwise have been overlooked, became strikingly obvious. 
Whoever rook that picture and whoever saw it knew about the



**Yale's Architectural Jokes**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
satiric relation between the sculprures. And 
it seems likely that one of these people was 
the prankster who divined it. 


The same queer sense of humor is at 
work on the book tower of Sterling Library. 
Beneath a set of gothic windows, are four 
bas relief heads. On the far left is a yale 
(the two-horned mythical beast)-a symbol 
of the University. On the far right is a 
student dressed up in a cap and tassel-a 
symbol of scholarship. Between them are 
two savage demons with fangs bared in 
threatening grimace. 


The mixing of satanic symbols with 
scholarly ones is roo blatant to have 
escaped Rogers's discerning eye. The four 
heads are so high up and so close together 
that they appear more as a group than as 
individuals. And no matter how you 
interpret it, the portrait isn't flattering of 
either Yale or her students. 


Not all of this architectural cant has 
gone unnoticed. Even as "the New Yale" 
was still taking form, a 1930 issue of the 
Harknm Hoot leveled its bitter criticism. 
"It violates all canons of good taste by 
deliberately misusing the Gothic details 
with which it abounds. How can students 
be educated to artistic appreciation under 
the eaves of an architecture that puts water 
tanks in church towers, and lavatories in 
oriels? It seems dubious what lesson of 
honesty the young man can derive from 
such misuses and untruths." 


· Yale lecturer Lila Freedman writes, "But 
what is most curious is that many [of the 
Law School ornaments] are deliberately 
satiric, implicitly commenting upon or 
even explicitly mocking the very concepts 
that presumably are taught within the 
building itself." 


Says Lord, "This architecture has a lot 
of authority and it's conditioning people all 
the time. I think it's enclosing and very 
insistent. I think undergraduates are 
negatively affected, irritated, and finally 
even depressed by it." 


Why would an institution like Yale 
portray through its ornaments so 
much cynicism about the values 
of education? Why a jester triumphing over 
Justice? Why all the animals dressed up as 
magistrates and lawyers? Why all the 
portrayals of drunken and decadent 
students? Why the recurring connections 
between students and demons? 


According to Yale legend, the 
draftsmen did it. The story goes that 
underpaid Italian stone masons decided to 
vent their frustrations against an elitist 
institution by carving their insults into the 
buildings. And when they tired of carving 
insults, they decided to carve themselves. 
In the front arches ofHGS appear the faces 
of all the draftsmen. 


But 
this 
common 
knowledge 
explanation is more myth than fact, said 
History of Art professor Vincent Scully. 
"These stories of spontaneous creation and 
happy draftsmen have developed afterwards 
. .. I say I'd be willing to bet that you 
could find sketches for every one [of the 
ornaments)." 


Wesley Needham, whose face is carved 
in the right hand 'archway of HGS, 
remembers the decision to portray 
draftsmen on the building. Like all other 
decisions about ornaments, it came from 
the architectural designer and not from the 
draftsmen themselves. Sketches for 
ornaments originated as a rule in the office 
of the head designer. James Gamble Rogers 
would review the sketches at a weekly 
session. In the case of the faces of HGS, he 
seems to have given approval even though 
it was another flagrant violation of the 
University 
Decoration 
Committee 
guidelines. 


In fact, an effort may have been made 
to hide some of the more offensive statues 
from the draftsmen. Needham remembers 
that the man on the potty was not on the 
plans for Trumbull's west courtyard. He 
says that the plans he worked on showed 
only a straightforward finial. Needham 
admits he really doesn't know how the 
potty man got there, but he figures that it 
must have been put on afterwards by 
undergraduates because, "No faculty 
member would ever do that." He adds, "It 
is perfectly formed over the finial. It is well 
done ... I would like to know how they 
did it." 


But it seems that undergrads had 
nothing to do with it. Photographs show 
the potty man on his throne shortly after 
the building was finished. The pictures 
created a bit of a stir, and Rogers made no 
effort to deny responsibility. 


Another explanation for the satire is 
that architect and chief designers used 
satirical ornament in an attempt to mimic 
the medieval gothic style. "They thought 
they were being very medieval," Scully says. 
"These people were acting out of a social 
myth about gothic architecture." Nothing 


**Yale's Gothic Heart: James Gamble Rogers and the Satire of Sterling**
**Author: Geoff Hayward (DC '83), Tom Feigelson (PC '83)**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Students will ridicule it." Meeks wrote a 
number of letters to Savage begging him to 
clean up his symbolism. They seem to have 
had some effect. 

When the mural was finally unveiled, 
the Hoot tried to raise spirits by pointing 
out the alternative, "The faculty of the Art 
School is, we understand, much relieved at 
the outcome; the mural is far less 
objectionable than it had dared hope. 
Original sketches had been disconcertingly 
informal in composition, and one focused 
as its central point on the impressive rumps 
of a large pink horse." 

Meeks saved future generations from 
the shock of a giant pink bottom in 
Sterling, but he couldn't save them from a 
thinly veiled satire of the university and 
academia. The painting had been subjected 
to over a half-century 
of faculty and student 
ridicule since its first 
exposure to the dim 
light of the library. 
Rogers was well 
aware of all 
the 
turmoil caused by 
Savage's satiric mural. 
But when the time 
came to choose an 
artist for his next 
project 
at 
University of Chicago, 
Rogers turned again to 
Savage. The result-
Athena standing in an 
ancient 
portal 
in 
midtown Manhattan-could have shocked 
only someone unaware of the Yale fiasco. 
Again Savage ignored repeated pleas from 
university administrators. Again he met 
accusations and vicious criticism. And 
again a university would suffer lasting 
humiliation. Savage's Chicago masterpiece 
was dubbed "The Ugly Mural." 

Part of the problem was that no one 
was willing to stand up to an artist chosen 
by Rogers. One administrator wrote that he 
seriously doubted a Committee would go 
so very far "in disapproving or approving of 
the mural by an artist selected by Mr. 
Rogers." Why would Rogers lend his 
credibility to an artist whose work was so 
universally disliked? A personal friendship? 
Maybe, but it may also have been because 
their senses for satire were so compatible. 

The mocking spirit of James Gamble 
Rogers found expression in more 
than just decorations. The buildings 
themselves are his greatest commentary. In 
some cases, as with the Law School, he 
chose to make fun-house reflections of 
Oxford and Cambridge. Other times, 
imitations gave way to elaborate parody. 

The main entrance hall of Sterling 
Library is a mock cathedral. Confessional 
booths have become telephone booths; the 
altar is used as a check-out counter; scenes 
from the passion play became scenes from 
the history of Connecticut; the portrait of 
the Virgin Mary is replaced by one of Alma 
Macer; and the Holy Book is converted 
into what seems to be an early version of 
the Blue Book. 

There isn't necessarily anything more 
than good wholesome fun behind Rogers' 
architectural punning. But obvious 
explanations for his multi-million dollar 
play on buildings were never entirely 
accepted. A 1931 issue of the Harkness 
Hoot asked, "Is there any honesty in hiding 
the magnificent function of a tower of 
books under a cloakage that has no more 
relevance to it than to a grain elevator? ... 
All this, in the university whose motto is 
Lux and Veritas. There is not one 
suggestion of Vericas in the Sterling 
Library, and for that matter there is 
precious little of Lux." 

Sterling is the showpiece of Yale's 
mutant gothic style, but Rogers' cathedral 
of learning makes tribute to neither 
divinity nor scholarship. It is perhaps a 
monument only to its creator. And if, as is 
inscribed on the main entrance of Sterling, 
"The Library is the Heart of the 
University," what does this elaborate farce 
say about Yale? 

Yale used to be a campus of open vistas 
with unassuming architecture in the style 
of Connecticut Hall. But when Rogers 
took over as consulting architect, Yale 
began to close herself in. Gothic facades, 
erected with the money of the roaring 
twenties and the labor of 
the dirty thirties, made 
for a city of fortresses, 
each guarded by its stone 
walls, moat and spiked 
iron gates. The walls are 
austere, 
moats 
enclosing, the gates 
forbidding. 

And even those who 
enter the sanctuary of the 
inner courtyards face the 
persistent 
satire 
of 
sculptures that question 
their right to be there. 
There is nothing inviting 
or reassuring about devils 
overlooking 
people 
masturbating in coffins. Nor is there much 
majesty in a man sitting on a potty: And 
whether it's a jester triumphing over 
justice, or a devil laughing at the Lord, or a 
dog mounting a man, these sculptures 
throw into doubt the values which a 
university should hold sacred. How much 
of it do we unknowingly hear and how 
much of it can we safely ignore when we 
walk in Rogers' world? 

Geoff Hayward (DC '83) was an associate 
editor ofTNJ. Tom Feigelson (PC '83) 
proposed the idea for this article and 
contributed significantly to the research.


**Graffitology: What the Walls Say at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

a 6r~d.-fora0 vx1:o the.. $epynA ~world of g~ 
gra{f/;'-h~ 
wher~ t;hL :;Jut.hor; mueh giv~ lb t:h e.. ~ploreitbDI'f- of tt1e.. o6.scw-e.~ -the... 
txrve.r .sL _~ ;md tn (. scat::>L.ogd.d~ c1Ye.1JL.s up a<3aat ck.EJL of ;:J2jcht-e-
sUtd8L an.d ~.fe-w preuou...s .!j~S -from the.. haLLowt.d tv~LLs of f,(J/f!..re»L 
66llhroorns ancf Lt.'6rari.Ls1• 
of l7c.r bnL.f 6u t pre cario u.s tum 6 Le.. 
-fYoY11 the_ pr-U,..'-'Legt..d posi:&ion cf V~ULS~-bb th~-t of chjt.:( 

I 
am standing in a men's room, sweating. Outside my stall, 
two men are performing an elaborate courrship dance. One 
of them paces, while the other stands by the urinals, not 
peeing. I think they are waiting for me to leave, but my feet 
seem nailed to the floor. Reality begins to warp, and for a 
moment I think, I'm short and flat-chested-if I just walk out 
there, maybe they'll think I'm a boy. How did I get myself into 
this? 

feminism. Too bad it was confined to this all-female underground 
den. But at least it was happening somewhere. 

Later I discovered the tangles of graffiti written by people 
srudying (or not) in the stacks, and my interest in these silent 
conversations, or what graffiti scholar Richard Reisner calls 
"significant statements by the anonymous," grew. Finally one day 
last spring I set out on a quest to uncover these "little peepholes, 
little insights onto the minds of individuals who are spokesmen 
not only for themselves but for others like them." 

It all started about a year ago when I 
began to notice the conversations taking 
place in installments on the walls of a 
Cross Campus Library women's room. 
Alongside the standard So-and-So is hot 
appeared debates about date rape, 
friendship between men and women, the 
persistence of double-standards, childhood 
sexual abuse, body image, and counseling: 

Graffitology remains a fledgling 
science, but graffiti itself dates from 
prehistory, beginning with the Neolithic-
Age finger paintings found in caves 
throughout Europe. Scholars postulate 
that the depictions of animals may have 
served as charms of an ancient hunting 
magic. Other designs look like the 
senseless doodling of bored cavemen. 

Fast-forward now to the time of Christ. When Mount 
Vesuvius erupted in A.D. 79, the lava preserved walls inscribed 
with insults, political slogans, praise for actors and gladiators, 
love letters, gossip, and quotations from Virgil and Ovid. These 
casual graffiti provide historians with intimate glimpses of the 
people's thoughts. And when I was in fourth grade, 
they provided me with an epiphany. During a 
filmstrip about the destruction of Pompeii, the 
narrator quoted a few examples of the graffiti, 
including, hopk who wriu on walls ar~ stupid. 

In his article "The Walls Speak," translator Antonio Varone 
brings to light the adult version of Pompeiian graffiti. When the 
walls speak, they say loud and clear: the more things change, the 
more people stay the same. In fact, many Yale graffitists could 
trace their literary ancestries to the anonymous bards of 
Pompeiian banality: 

Atimttus got mt prtgnant. (Tomb near the Nucerian Gate) 

On tht ninth day 
of Novtmbtr Quintus 
Postumius inviud Aulus 
Attius to havt homostxual 
inurcouru with mt. 
(Near the Palaestra) 

Whotvtr lovts, go to 
htll. I want to brtak 
Vtnus' ribs with blows 
and dtform htr hips. If 
sht can brtak my ttndtr 
htart, why can't I hit htr 
ovtr tht htad? (Wall of 
the Basilica) 

If Pompeiian graffiti 
offers a cultural history 
in relief-what wasn't 
said or done .in polite 
company, what was 
politically dangerous, 
how many Phrygians it 
took to screw in a 
torch-then why not 
take a look at our own 
mini-culture through 
that same rear window? 

Modern 
graffiti 
represents a final frontier, challenging us to stretch the limits of 
taboo in a culture grown blase on a steady diet of daytime t.v. 
about animal fetishists, crossdressing Klansmen, bedwetting 
husbands. What is worth saying under cover of anonymity 
anymore, when privacy has become such a public affair? What 
can the graffiti of a place really tell us about its inhabitants 
anyway, and what does Yale graffiti say about Yalies that Yalies 
can't openly say for themselves? 

Suppose one day the Physical Plant finally erupted, burying 
us all under a blanket of deadly ash. When the archaeologists of 
the 22nd century dug up our wall writings, what would they 



**Title: Yale's Graffiti**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
glean about our daily lives, the gods we 
worship, the cravings we long to fulfill? 
Prowling through the stacks of Sterling 
Memorial Library with my notebook and 
pencil 
after 
most 
people had had the 
good sense to leave for 
the summer, I felt like 
an archaeologist myself, 
poking through the 
ruins 
of 
a 
lost 
civilization. 


In 
fifth-floor 
carrel, someone gives 
him- or herself a grim 
little pep talk: 
I'm 
now 
sophomor~. It's th~ md of 
1st stm~sttr. I fail~d th~ 
samt math courst for tht 
ucond tim~. But I will 
talu it again, this timt 
with th~ intention to 
study and during my last 
two ytars at Yalt, talu 
ali 
th~ mtd school 
rtquir~mmts and go to 
UCSF mtd school. 
Fuck you, someone answers. 
Elsewhere another optimist ventures, 
10 ytars from now your gradts won't matttr. 
Be happy. 
Dr~am on, replies a morose colleague. 
Thry affict your prtunt and thtrtfor~ your 
Jutuu. 
Would future generations appreciate 
the witty aHusiveness of our griping? 
•Tht library is eksolation. It has a sm~/1 
of its own dtsolation and ekath ... -William 
Carws Williams I And th~ doctor's offiu? 
·succus is counud swuust by thou who 
n~'er succud ... I Wow, wish I'd said that. I 
And by high-powutd, ambitious Yalt 
undtrgraduaus who pumu that bitch-
godt:kss, succm, as though it wat tht holy 
grail itu/f I ("bitch-goddess" circled} 
typical Yak pstudo-inulkctual phrast. 
22 
"Blamt it on Hmry jamn, babt. Ht 
said it first. Typical Yak ignoranu. 
Or would they focus on the grim tone 
of so much of the graffiti, and confuse the 
darkly funny with the merely dark? 
Do you tvtr ful likt jumping out of this 
window? asks someone on the sixth floor. 
God yts, another answers, but that's a 
b~tur ont high~r up. 


Whining about stress goes hand 
in hand with whimpering about 
loneliness. One person captures the 
conflict between ambition and love 
poignantly: Fuck succm. All I want is 
to b~ wvttd. But b~ing htrt, it is hard 
rom to wvt myu/f 


The signs of deprivation are 
everywhere. 
In answer to the pitiful 
confession My boyfrimd just dumptd 
m~. ~ wmt out for a ytar and I still 
lovt him a lot but h~ dotsn't want 
anything to do with mt comes the pathetic 
reply, I wish I had somtont to dump mt. 
I /ov~ C.S. Too bad I'm an ugly 
fmhpmon. I How ugly? 
L~avt photo hut. 


Some of the graffiti 
are less brooding, more 
dir..ect; 
few 
are 
refreshingly porno-
graphic. 
Oh lord, my dick is 
small. Htlp mt. I Gtt 
ovu it. 
I'm thirsty. Ali I 
nud is a juicy snatch 
ovtr my faa to qumch 
my thirst. (Am I asking 
too much?) 


The irony of 
writing 
anonym-
ous confessions of 
loneliness is not lost 
on 
everyone, 
and 
some suggest helpful 
alternatives: 
I don't gtt mough action. I Gtt out of 
tht fucking library. thm. 
An elaborate rebus begins, R U tht 1? 
(eye) M W+(hat) U W+(ant) Mt 2 (bee)! 
A caption reads, Stmiotic lov~ affair: 
dtconstruction-proof post modtrn lust dtfits 
tht signifiu with significanu. With 
opportunities like these, who needs virtual 


--- Page 23 ---

love on the Internet 


The walls of the stacks teem with self-
conscious philosophizing and smart-aleck 
rebuttals. T h ey suggest a population 
madly analytical and neurotically obsessed 
with being right. A battle rages berween 
the pseudo-intellectuals and the anti-
intellectuals, though the djstinctions often 
blur. O ne conversation in a carrel on floor 
3M reads like the transcript of a 
philosophy section in hell: 
I And viet 
v 
t 
r 
s 
I 
Action is tht dratknd of possibility. I 
That's not trut. Action can kad to countkss 
nrw possibilitits.!Action only sums 
impossiblt. I Right. And our frimd is tht 
tk/Uknd of sod tty. I Garcia is tht tkadhrad 
of socitty. I Dtadhrads art tht dtadmd of 
socitty. I Socitty is a tkatknd. Conditionrd 
things art pt rishablr by naturt. Diligmtly 
suit rralization.-Thr Buddha's last words I 
Socirty can't br tkadmtkd by a tiny group of 
powrrlm individuals, you silly boys! I Yts, 
but it is thou who rtjtct powtr who 
ultimauiy gain powtr-for powtr controls 
llM corrupts, whtrras tht powtr to rr.Just to 
ust powtr can not bt touchrd . .. ya know? I 
Why don't you at kast go to a Drad Show 
brforr you gmrraliu? I Can't grt tickm! I 
(illustration of a "Not a through street" 
sign) 


Rando m pontifications and aimless 
ramblings cover every flat surface in the 
stacks: 


J 
If I wt rt to photograph this wall & its 
f"llJfiti, would my photograph bt a tkpiction 
of rrlllity? I Dots it rrally mattrr? 
In thr brginning, thtrt wtrt twooooooo 
SEPTEMBER 2, 1994 
tiiiiiiny amorba - Bugs Bunny 
Rraiity is for ptoplt who can't handlt 
drugs. I Cutr, but br urious. I I am. 
(picture of a jellyfish) Big Jrlly is 
watching you! 
Lysdrxics of thr world, untit! 
Dots anyont likr Kahlil Gibran? 


Affiicted with a combination of '90s 
navel-gazing and Ivy League ology-itis, 
Yalies debate the implications of Yaleness 
ad nauseam. 
Evrryont at Yair wants to bt tht smartrst 
ptrson at Yair. 
I lovr Yair. I Yair lovrs itsr/f. I That's tht 
mrnu of this piau. 
Look out tht window at Toad's. Now 
u/1 mt wt'rt not in tht Ivory Towtr. 
WHY 
DO 
ELlS 
HAVE 
AN 
INFERIORITY COMPLEX? 
I wish I'd gotten into Harvard. 


The next loop of the inward spiral of 
self-analysis brings us to metagraffiti, or 
graffiti about graffiti: 
Graffiti is almost likr drink, n'm-u pas? 
Tht truth comts out, ptoplr sprak thrir 
mind, and it ain't prttty. 
Stacks graffiti is so comforting. Not 
quiu as political as bathroom graffiti, for 
surt. I Graffiti is a good thing, but Yair 
sums to bt full of thru uxually frustraud 
ptrvtrts who can't think of anything 
particularly illuminating to shart. 
Nrvtr havt I sun such a pathrtic display 
of anxitty and miurabknm. Tht culturt of 
complaint has taktn ovrr, and wt all 
considrr ourulvrs victims. A mass of 
wraklings! I And you'vt just jointd thrir 
ranks. 


Political graffiti? Forget about it. The 
spirit of Keith Haring does not live here. 
These are the dosed-circuit mutterings of 
intellectuals-in-training who know their 
voices can be heard in the mainstream, 
not the exuberant sloganeering of '60s 
campus radicals or the expressive "tags" 
and "pieces" of street writers "gening up," 
as graffi t i-wri ting is known in the 
business. Here and there you may see a 
**Title: Bathroom Graffiti**
**Author: Rosemary Hutzler**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~ 
· u~o 
~" 
(\tsr 
\) 
do it quietly 
~and <hut th• fuck up 
about it? 

Even at their most political, though, 
most of the scrawlings are little more than 
ripples of annoyance on the surface of a 
deep complacency. Where are the radicals? 
·I wonder. Where is the graffiti of action? 
With these questions in mind, I set out on 
the most adventurous leg of my journey, 
the search for larrinalia. (Yes, it's really a 
word.) 

Already familiar with a good deal of 
the graffiti in women's rooms on campus, 
I needed only confirm what I already 
knew: that women's larrinalia addresses 
three principal topics: 1) men-pigs or 
not pigs?; 2) how sweet it is to be a 
lesbian; and 3) eating disorders. 

When women write in bathrooms, we 
do not try to impress or shock. We follow 
the nurturing, collaborative model of 
social interaction. We are earnest and 
concerned. Our graffiti is pretty dull. 
(row of interlocking woman signs) 
Lesbians unite! 
Hey Freud, what happens now that 
women no longer need to sublimate? 
Question: Why do women get on another 
woman's case if she believes in the equality of 
the sexes and not that (woman sign) are 
better than (man sign)? 

Emboldened by the fantasy of myself 
as intrepid private eye, I pay a visit to a 
certain men's. room where a source has 
tipped me off to some primo graffiti. 
When the coast looks clear, I duck into 
the last stall and lock myself in. 
Immediately I stumble upon a great truth . 
of the universe: Men and women really 
are different. If you don't believe it, go see 
for yourself what the opposite sex thinks 
about on the toilet. 

SEPTEMBER 2, 1994


women's chree, men have one single, 
seemingly inexhauscible copic. A secrec spy 
in che land of guy calk, l revel in ics 
dirciness, Jiberaced from che shackles of 
good taste. I note several drawings of 
elephantine penises, perhaps signifying 
some kind of modern-day hunting magic, 
and locs of notes like these: 
1 0" ready to eat. 
Fags must DIE. I So must breeders and 
their offspring. Let's fuck "fast, ladies and 
gents. 
Is it true that many handsome men are 
gay? I 50% of the time yes, just Like me. 
I can't help feeling sorry for the guy 
who apparently mistook his stall for a 
library carrel and wrote, Systems of 
oppression are interlocking. The only road to 
Liberation is through a re'newed sense of 
group consciousness, in between Fags suck 
and Fat girls are in. 

When I finish in each stall, I peek 
under the door to make su.re no one is 
standing at the sinks or urinals, then dart 
into the next one. In stall number four I 
notice a panoply of little personals 
covering che walls: 
Hot Yale student looking for hot cock. 
Big, must be white. Tues, Nov. 30, 8:00 
here. Write me P.O. ---- . 
Gay male is looking for men who want a 
Bj. Call -------. This phone will be avail. 
Feb. 22. 

Lots of dates are being made, with 
various qualifications stipulated. Several 
specify race. One wants submissive jocks. 
A hung top seeks a bottom. I've heard of 
places like chis, known as· "tearooms," but 
this is my first real live visit to one. Still, I 
recognize some familiar signs ofYaleness. 
The pressures of a busy schedule: 
GWM, 20, seeks . .. I How about Mon 9-16 
at 6:45? I Can't make that. How about Wed 
9-18 at 1? I No, how about . .. 
The elitism: GWM ISO a Rhodes 
scholar. 

And chose famous interlocking systems 


of oppression: GBM ueks men (handsome 
+ young). He is an oral sex granted. I That's 
not a complete sentence, nigger. 

I'm ready to go on to the next stall, 
but when I peek out I see a couple of men 
standing at the sinks and urinals. As I wait 
for them to leave, I begin to notice a few 
things I had missed. There is a wad of 
toilet paper stuck in the latch, reminding 
me that I've seen other pieces of t.p. stuck 
to the walls of other stalls. What do they 
mean? I wonder. I try not to think about 
what's holding them up. 

The men seem to be taking an awfully 
long time. In fact, one is pacing back and 
forth, which seems strange, since there are 
plenty of empty stalls. I peek under. The 
pacer, who wears brown wing-tips and 
dress slacks, stops pacing. Another man, 
in sneakers and chinos, stands facing the 
urinal. Silence settles over the bathroom 
for a moment; then the pacing resumes. 
Wingtips goes to the paper towel 
dispenser and takes a lot of paper towels, 
throws them away, paces again, gets more 
towels. A signal? Then he walks to one of 
the stalls and stands halfway in, facing 
inwards, his briefcase on the floor beside 
him. A signal? 

I peek under again, and as I do, 
C hinos turns around toward me. I 
straighten up fast and break out in a sweat 
as the situation becomes suddenly clear. I 
review my options: 
explain 
that 
I'm here researching an article 
about bathroom graffiti, terribly sorry co 
intrude; 2) bolt and say nothing; 3) stay 
put. 

I determine to sic it out, literally. I feel 
dumb for not having caught on sooner, but 
not as dumb as the guy who scribbled, This 
school is so Lame. Where is ail the action? 


Eventually the men run out of patience and 
leave. But when I peek under again, 
another man is standing at the urinals, this 
time in straight-leg jeans and black leather 
shoes, like me. He washes his hands, gees 
paper towels, paces, gets more paper 
towels. A signal? To whom? He's the only 
one out there now. 

Imagine my surprise when he comes 
and stands in the stall next to mine, facing 
in. He stands there, tears off a bit of toilet 
paper, stands there some more, just stands 
there. Once again, a flash of insight: from 
the knees down, in my Doc Martens and 
frayed Levis, I am the picture of androgyny. 
I've been in here a long time, shuffling 
around, facing in various directions. Of 
course it looks like ... 

Picture it: this man wants to have sex 
with me, knowing so little about me that 
he hasn't figured out I'm the wrong sex. 
And 
you 
thought 
Demery's 
was 
impersonal. 

Once again I play the waiting game, 
and after a minute someone in grubby 
high-tops trudges by to use one of the 
toilets for its intended purpose. My pursuer 
takes off, leaving the escape route dear for 
me. I wait a couple beats and then bolt. 
But just outside the door, what should I see 
but those black shoes and straight-leg jeans, 
and in them a Timothy Dalton look-alike 
pretending to study a bulletin board. As I 
stride purposefully past, his eyes slide down 
to my shoes and make their 
way slowly up the rest of me, 
chen jump quickly back to 
the 
bulletin 
board. 
Hurrying away, I see his 
face crinkle into a look of 
sheer befuddlement. I feel 
guilty for the rest of the 
day. 

There must be a moral in here 
somewhere. Don't go ferreting out the 
furtive if you can't out-furt the ferrets. Or 
something like that. If you figure out what 
it is, write it on a wall somewhere. I'll be 
looking. 


Rosemary Hutzler, a junior in Davenport 
College, is on the stlljf ofTNJ. 


**Title: Charlie Chan: Death by Diversity**
**Author: Suzann~ Kim**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Charlie Chan: Death by Diversity 
A new anthology shatters a pop-culture icon t o make room for a dazzling 
array of fresh images. 
Char/it Chan is Dtad: An Anthology ofConumporary Asian 
Amtrican Fiction 
Ediud by ]mica Hagtdorn 
Pmguin Books, 1993 
$14.00 
W
riter Earl Derr Biggs did much more than write a 
little story about a Chinese detective in 1925. He 
created a legacy. In the introduction to the Asian-
American literarure anthology Char/it Chan is Dtad, 
editor Jessica Hagedorn quotes the fictional Charlie: 
"Observe." 
"When weaving nets, all threads counted." 
"Woman's intuition like feather on arrow. May help flight to 
truth." 
"Necessity mother of invention, but sometimes stepmother of 
deception." 
"Boy scout knife, like ladies' hairpin. Have many uses." 
"Best place for skeleton is in family closet." 
"Chinese people interested in aJI things psychic." 
"If strength were all, tiger would not fear scorpion." 
Oburvt. But this anthology refuses to sit back and watch while 
quaintly insulting characters like Charlie toddle by on the screen 
and along the pages of books. Char/it Chan is Dtad refuses to 
observe all the niceties of traditional representations. Its stories will 
not and do not follow the wobbly footsteps of Charlie Chan, 
though for many years his path appeared to be the only one 
available. The title resounds mantra-like. Charlie Chan embodies all 
that is abhorrent to writers attempting to fashion rich and complex 
Asian-American literarure; he talks one talk and walks one walk, but 
for all his one-dimensionality enjoys the throne as the sole Asian 
figure in American pop culture. Char/it Chan is Dtad dethrones this 
icon and precipitates his metaphorical death. By following eclectic 
narrative lines of their own, Meena Alexander, Hisaye Yamamoto, 
Kimiko Hahn, Maxine Hong Kingston, Russell Leong, Carlos 
Bulosan, Shawn Wong, and the 42 other writers 
rejuvenate the moribund picrure of Asian Americans 
in mainstream literary discourse. 

Char/it Chan is Dtad distinguishes itself as a body of 
contemporary Asian-American literature portraying Asian-American 
women, men, and children in the myriad roles they play, not simply 
as one-dimensional characters glorifying the "Occidentalized" 
version of the "Oriental" mystique. These stories unleash all of the 
unruliness of Asian-American identity and caress the tender sides as 
well. By their very diversity, the stories in this anthology challenge 
the very notion of a ftxed cultural identity, privileging complexity 
and richness, unfettered by racial stereotype. 

The writings are outrageous, somber, brash, tender, lush, sparse. 
Nostalgic and tired they are not: 
"Up in her room Moon brooded and swore on a stack of Bibles 
that she would seek revenge for this terrible incident-and that if 
she were to die today she would come back to earth as an angry 
ghost to haunt those motherfuckers." -from "Moon" by Marilyn 
Chin 
"Edgar Ramirez is a faggot. Mrs. Takemoto knows it. She's 
always telling him to stop putting his hair behind his ears." -from 
"They Like You Because You Eat Dog, So What Are You Gonna Do 
About It? (8 vignettes)" by R. Zamora Linmark 
Charlie Chan's successors bear none of his cultural markings. 
They are people in all their seriousness and irony, joy and bitterness, 
and anger. 
A:.
mong the writers is former Yale professor of 
American Studies Kimiko Hahn, who 
aught Asian-American literature in 1991 
and 1992 in addition to wriring poetry. Her story 
"Afterbirth" wrestles with the question of birth and its 
effects on women and their lives. But the images of birth 
depart from traditional motherly depictions: "In some 
societies women eat the placenta after that final stage: 
the expulsion of the afterbirth when the belly heaves a 
great sigh and lies on the pelvis like a nostalgic sack." 
Hahn, who in an interview cited Monique Wittig 
and Marguerite Duras as influences, writes in a non-
linear fashion, stringing together sketches which 
emulate the fluidity of film. The placenta weaves 
its way through the narrative; Hahn fabricates 
myths about what happens to the placenta, or 
the afterbirth, in various societies. Interspersed 
with these myths, Hahn places sketches 
about pairs of women whose lives change 
dramatically after the birth of a child. "I was interested 
in what happens to women when one has a family and the 
ocher doesn't," said Hahn. The characters Rose and Hazel in 
"Afterbirth" share an understanding about what the birth of Haul's 
baby will do to their sisterly relationship: "They knew within 24 
hours an event would sever their frames of reference so they'd never 
feel quite the same closeness. And that their whole lives were a 
preparation for the loss the baby would bring, male or female." 
Anti-nostalgia pervades "Empty Heart," by Lois-Ann Yamanaka, 
who appropriates the pidgin dialect spoken in her native Hawaii. 
She writes in the brief introduction to her piece, "Our language bas 
been labeled the language of ignorant people, substandard, and 
inappropriate in any form of expression-written or oral." 
However, Yamanaka refuses to accept this imposed shame to write 
in the "voice of [her) place." Her young female narrator tells the 
story of her romance with WtllyJo: "He wait by the fence until the 
bell for recess time and I run to him fast and sneaky as I can, hide 
behind the hibiscus hedge and sit in the tall ironweed. I put my 
fingers through the chain links to touch his face. He kiss my fingers." 
Both Yamanaka's and Hahn's pieces depict Asian-American 
women as more than just exotic courtesans. Not only do the stories 
in Charli~ Chan is D~ad reject constraining images of women, but 
tbey offer new representations of Asian-American men as well. 
Charlie Chan simpers about, toeing the line between asexual and 
effeminate; Raymond Ding in Shawn Wong's "Eye Contact" 
engages in a sexual relationship with Aurora Crane, who is of mixed 
descent. 
Raymond's 
developed 
sexuality defies 
the notion that 
being an Asian-
American male 
means 
being 
sexually impotent. 
The 
relationship 
between 
Raymond 
and Aurora marks a 
radical departure from a 
literary tradition in which the 
desire between Asian-American women and men rareiy receives 
attention. 

In his heyday, Charlie Chan offered America its only insight 
into the mind of the "yellow man." But in appropriating his image, 
editor Jessica Hagedorn and the 48 writers in Charli~ Chan is D~ad 
gain the power to supplant it with new ones. 
"Charlie Chan is indeed dead, never to be revived," declaims 
Elaine Kim in her preface to the book, perhaps a bit prematurely. 
Cloaked in subdety, anti-Asian sentiment still lingers in the public 
psyche. Yet Char/i~ Chan is D~ad makes no claim to eradicate 
racism. It alone cannot transform years of bias. But it docs force us 
to question the politics of representation and cultural identity. It 
compels us to investigate the case of this mythical Charlie Chan, to 
sniff out the clues and catch the culprit red-handed. 


**Title: Change of Address**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

Change of Address 
The shows may change, but Generation X co nti nues to build commu nity 
around t elevision. Big Bird, meet Heather Locklear. 

I 
am a child of television. I realize now that nothing can 
change this. No amount of wit, intelligence, or hard work can 
ever rewire my synapses-not even my nearly complete Yale 
education. As a group of my friends and I sit in the basement 
t.v. room of my favorite haunt, l realize that we are in touch with 
our primal consciousness. By 
the phosphor light of the Sony, 
waiting for the credits to roll, 
we all stay quiet for a brief 
moment. We might as well be 
four again, eating Nilla wafers, 
sitting in Mommy's lap, waiting 
for the cheery Sesame Strut 
theme song to begin. It's really 
the same thing-
the electronic 
baby-sitter, the television fix-
but we're rwenrysomething now, 
far from home, smoking 
Marlboros, and drinking beer, 
waiting for a slightly more 
upscale address to appear on the 
screen. 

I noticed recently that no matter where rwenrysomethings 
gather, we tend to play chercher Ia t!ll as soon as we arrive. 
We don't have to watch to be comforted; we just like to 
know it's there-
unlike our preoccupied parents 
and pha~tom social security deposits. In bars, we 
catch ghmpses our of the corner of our eyes. 
When parries get boring, I often nocice 
people staring longingly at the blank face of 
rhe nearest set. Last year some friends went on 
a bud~et ~pri~g-break vacation_ to th: Bahamas; 
they dado t mmd the roaches 10 theu seedy hotel 
room, but the lack of a t.v. provoked a crisis. The 
botrom line: wherever we go, whatever else happens, we 
want our MTV-and ESPN, CNN, and of course, our Fox. 
Melrose Piau is another titillating title in producer Aaron 
Spelling's impressively trashy <r:uvre, along with Charlie's Angels, 
Dynasty. Dallas, and Beverly Hills 90210. Together, 
90210 and Melrose constitute "Fox night," a block 
of time from eight to ten Wednesday night when 
life grinds to a halt, phones go unanswered, and all academic 
pursuits are put on hold by untold numbers of college students 
around the country. As the Bev Hills kids grew up and graduated, 
Wednesday night began to wane in popularity. Melrose didn't 
atrain cult status until this year, its second season, when the 
original cast was beefed up by 
Amanda (Heather Locklear) and 
Sydney (Lara Leighton)-and a 
series of frenetic plot twists 
involving murder, blackmail, 
prostitution, and a little sex. 
Countless headlines and 
magazine cover stories later, 
Melrose Place is "the hottest 
address on television," as USA 
Today recently crowed; it has 
helped to elevate Fox ro major-
network status. Beyond the 
numbers (which are probably low 
anyway because Neilsen doesn't 
include college students in irs 
calculations), Melrose 
is 
a 
phenomenon, almost a religion. But don't lump us MP faithful 
with soap-opera sob sisters or Star Trek losers. We're different, a 
little too jaded to take the whole thing seriously. But addicted 
we are, brazen in our helplessness if a little sheepish about 
it, too. Everyone has an excuse. "My roommates got me 
hooked." "I started watching 90210, and by the time 
Melrose came on it was roo late for me to stop." "I 
have a melodrama dependency, but my 
insurance won,t cover treatment." 

Only the seriously pathetic watch 
Melrose alone-for most of us Fox Night is a 
social event. We show off our chic cynicism, flirt 
with the person next to us by trashing a favorite 
character, and strive to outdo each other with our plot 
predictions. In our college t.v. rooms, we form nice little 
communities that mirror the big scary one that lives at Melrose 
Piau. 

My Yale Melrosefriends provide my basic frame 
of reference for the show. We assemble every 
We all have our agendas, our little 
theoretical specialties. 
Elizabeth looks for the economic 
underpinnings Of the show; 
Grant scrutinizes its medical 
aspects; Sara concentrates on 
gender roles and sexual dynamics; 
Chris denounces bad clothes, bad 
hair, and bad acting. 



**Title: Melrose Place: A College Phenomenon**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Wednesday night in the basement of Sr. Anthony Hall, a literary 
discussion society. Fox Night also happens to be Bar Night: the 
taps flow, the room gradually fills with ten to twenty members and 
their friends, and the tension rises as 90210 draws to a close (hard-
core Melrose watchers tend to look down on ZIP fans). This 
Wednesday night is no different. The fact that finals begin in three 
days seems inconsequential. Classes here clearly take a back seat to 
the show-so much so that one of my professors decided not to 
offer Wednesday night discussion sections because he didn't want 
to compete. 

But this doesn't mean we don't value our education-watching 
Melrose doubles as an academic experience. My friends are 
generally the type who 'never go to the library but still ace the 
final, all caffeine and glib inspiration and not a little bullshit. The 
same holds true in the way we watch Melrose. We all have our 
agendas, our little theoretical specialries. Elizabeth looks for the 
economic underpinnings of the show; Grant scrutinizes its medical 
aspects, so important of late; Sara concentrates on gender roles 
and sexual dynamics from an ardently feminist point of view; 
Chris denounces bad clothes, bad hair, and bad acting; I listen for 
the well-tuned line of dialogue and monitor plot developments 
involving Matt, the show's token fag. And we do all of this out 
loud in real-time, every week, without fail-barring reruns. 

This particular week's show evoked quite a response from my 
Melrose posse. Here's a handy summary of major plot twists, with 
apologies to Soap Opera Digest: Dr. Kimberly returned from the 
dead (sort of) to reclaim her true love-the smugly perfidious Dr. 
Michael Mancini-from the Donna Reed/Heidi Fleiss-wannabe 
clutches of Sydney, the little sister of Michael's long-suffering ex-
SEPTEMBER 2, 1994 
HONESTLY, 
SYDNEY, 
I'D RATHER 
wife Jane. 

When he kicks Sydney out, she begs sister Jane to put her up 
for a night. Jane's response: "Honestly Sydney, I'd rather set fire to 
myself" When Sydney sees Melrose's sickly sweet Billy and Alison, 
she sneers, ''I'm getting a divorce ... and so will you someday." But 
we doubt they'll even marry, because Billy (the dramatically 
challenged Andrew Shue} isn't contracted for next season and 
Alison suffers from semi-repressed memories of childhood sexual 
abuse set to explode as her father gives her away. 

The ever-chubby Jo is getting chubbier, but tonight we're 
betting that she loses the baby sired by her drug-running ex-
boyfriend Reed, whom she had to blow away (in self-defense) a 
few weeks back. She'll probably get back together with Jake; 
Amanda doesn't appreciate his studliness, and it's time for her to 
move on anyway, probably with the fiance of her long lost mother 
(played by Linda Grey of Dallas fame). In other news, we saw 
Matt working at the hospital ... still no sex for him. Not even a 
lousy on-screen kiss. 

At any rate, we all had opinions about what we saw. As soon as 
the credits ended, our reverent silence shattered and it became 
hard to hear the show over the laugh, cheer, and critique track. 
"You suck!" yells Chris violently as Amanda walks on screen 
early in the show. "Why do I hate her?" 

I shrug. "She has dark roots. Do you think she's hot?" 

"She looks o.k.," confides Chris, "but the entire show has ~ 
u 
31 


--- Page 32 ---

hair problems." 

I nod in agreement. Soon the action 
shifts to Michael's seaside home, outside 
the buff stucco walls of Melrose Place. 
'Thunderstorm motif at the beach house ... 
there's something brewin'," notes Grant in 
his Texas drawl. He's right: Kimberly is 
lurking in the shadows-she jumps out, 
scares Michael, and elicits a group scream. 
Sara groans and shakes her head. 
"Normal people call," she says flatly. But 
Sara likes Kimberly: she's vaguely feminist, 
definitely back with a vengeance. When 
Kimberly tells Michael to "get rid of" 
Sydney, Sara sounds genuinely impressed. 
"That's beautiful delivery. Really nice." 

When Linda Grey appears, I am 
momentarily cheered (I know who shot 
J.R.), but she looks a little too plausible as 
Amanda's mother Hillary, too far above the 
Melrose age cap. Sara apparently feels the 
same way, and puts a very fine point on it. 
"Linda Grey got a facelift, but she didn't 
get her neck fixed. Look at all that flesh." 
Fearing that we haven't heard her, she 
grimaces and repeats this rather gruesome 
observation once again. 

During a commercial, I ponder why we 
love Melrose so much, forsaking all other 
shows. A consensus quickly develops. 
"There's so much more hard-core 
scandal on this show than 90210," says 
Grant. 
"Clearly," adds Sara; Chris 
concurs. "Totally." 

Chris then launches into the litany of 
the work he has coming up, then admits to 
thinking the unthinkable: skipping a week. 
''I'm glad I made the right choice. Actually, 
the only choice." We all nod. 

There is plenty of filler this week 
alongside the real story of Kimberly's 
return, but we can sense the show building 
toward a big ending. Elizabeth, who has 
32 
already made several shrewd observations 
this evening, keeps asking about 
Kimberly's hair. "Didn't they shave it off in 
the hospital? Like, major head trauma? 
Remember? Did it just all grow back in 
two months?" Elizabeth is not quite in the 
inner circle of Melrose addicts, so we don't 
listen too closely-to our peril. If we had 
heard her out, the final scene wouldn't 
have been so upsetting. 

With five minutes left in the show, 
Kimberly dismounts Michael after a 
rather randy scene and goes to the 
bathroom. She winces (a headache?), 
takes some pills and then- wham!-she 
peels off this wig and reveals an inch of 
what can only be described as stubbly 
chemo-patient hair and a tremendous 
scar! 

We all scream. Loud. The rest of us 
have stopped, but there sits Chris in the 
corner, still wailing, with a look of sheer 
terror on his face. "Sick! That's just so 
sick!" he sputters, and then screams some 
more. By this point, a beer commercial 
has replaced Kimberly and her "major 
head trauma"; Elizabeth accepts kudos for 
her dead-on prediction. "Thank you, 
thank you," she says, bowing hammishly. 

By now, Chris is completely pale and 
speechless. He will remain so all through 
"scenes from next week," the all-
important teaser for the upcoming 
exciting episode. By the end of "scenes," 
as we call it, we are already outlining next 
week's major plot points. 

We talk about the show for 20 or 30 
minutes after it ends: definitely one of the 
best ever. Someone comments that 
sensationalizing Kimberly's medical 
problems shows a lack of sensitivity, and 
we all agree. But we also agree that her 
scar is gross anyway. We move on to a 
review of the acting. Linda Grey seems 
o.k. (the neck notwithstanding}, but Billy 
has hit a new low with a mangled line 
about a lamb kebab. We proceed to 
savage him: definitely the worst actor on 
Melrose, maybe the dumbest on t.v. Cathy 
leaps to his defense: "Billy's not dumb," 
she steadfastly declaims. "He's just ... 
slow." We leave her to her illusions. Soon 
we disperse and return to our work. 

Chris, exhausted by the whole experience, 
decides to call it a night and hit the sack. 

If my friends fail to provide enough 
commentary, I have other methods. I 
can only watch Melrose for an hour a 
week, but I can dial up the alt.tv.melrose-
place news group on the Internet 24 hours 
a day. It's serious business. People from all 
over the world post little articles about the 
show. Hundreds of little articles a week. 
Some 
of 
them 
pose 
simple 
questions wanting an answer: "When was 
Heather Locklear born?" "How old is 
Amanda supposed to be on the show?" 

Some of the little articles (or "posts") 
want more; some verge on the pathetic. 
"jmiller@connected.com" posted this 
message recently: "I am planning a trip to 
L.A. in May and thought it would be fun 
to see the actual apartment complex where 
all the trouble we love to watch on 
Wednesdays takes place. Is the apartment 
actually located in L.A.? Would someone 
be willing to give a full address and/or 
directions to get to it?" Really, Jim. It's 
called a set. They film the show on a 
sound stage in Santa Clarita-not even 
Hollywood. 

If you read a post that interests you, 
you could post a response yourself. Or, 
more privately, you can reply to a post by 
e-mailing the person who posted the 
article. I have actually done this, an act 
which marks me as having a particularly 
THE NEw JouRNAL 

--- Page 33 ---

severe Melrose addiction. The writer, one 
Thomas 
Andrew 
Jourgenson 
at 
columbia.edu, described Billy's bursting 
into Alison's creepy shrink's office as 
"loping in there like Rambo without his 
jockstrap." I laughed. He also noticed 
Mancini's new and unflattering haircut, and 
railed about his artificially prolonged 
celibacy. I had found a kindred spirit. 

With a mind toward this article, I sent him 
a message asking about his Melrose 
experience. 

The response was amazing: Andrew's 
description was a ringer for mine. "I 
"Who are the 
people in your 
neighborhood?" 
Once they were the 
grocer, the crossing 
guard, and the nurse. 
Now they look a lot 
like Billy and Alison. 
watch the full Fox Wednesday lineup in 
the basement of River Hall, a Columbia 
dorm. Anywhere from ten to twenty-five 
people show up on Wednesdays, and you 
have to be early to guarantee a good seat. I 
watch with my friends, several of whom I 
became friends with primarily because they 
were regulars. We comment on the show, 
but the close surroundings and the 
importance we occasionally place upon 
hearing the dialogue requires a certain 
decorum. Not quite sotto voce, but 
screaming is only tolerated when the 
happenings turn egregious.... Long 
rambles are appreciated only during 
station breaks, especially if they're loud." 

Andrew and his friends sound more polite 
than me and mine. 

It turns out that Andrew is a humor 
columnist for the Columbia Daily 
Spectator; it shows. "Matt seems to be a 
celibate island in a sea of promiscuity. I 
think it's time for Spelling to bridge the 
sea, or, for a particularly tasteless kicker to 
this metaphor, start running a ferry 
service. 
thought that Andrew (as a 
philosophy major) might be able to help 
me figure out why people like us-
otherwise sane and well-adjusted college 
students-succumb to this particularly 
bizarre show. He finds it as hard to explain 
as I do. "I guess the characters could be 
role models," he muses, "if one was 
looking to blackmail employers, break up 
relationships, run with drug dealers, et 
cetera. Currently, the closest person to a 
role model is Matt, who's so marginalized 
that he might as well be written in ball-
point pen. Alison is only now starting to 
perk up interest now that it's being made 
clear that she's more neurotic than Philip 
Roth mixing nitrous oxide and Zoloft. . . 
Role models don't make for dynamic 
characters on soap operas." And our 
Melrose alter egos are nothing if not 
dynamic. 

Buoyed by my e-mail encounter with 
Andrew, I sent a message to a friend of 
mine who goes to Duke. The scene there 
looks very much the same: everyone 
watches en masse, and snide comments 
reign. With Justin Dillon, I really hit the 
jackpot: he watches both 90210 and 
Melrose. "Okay, I admit it," he wrote back. 
"I am hooked on the 
shallow, pathetic, sex-
crazed lives of those 
little bastards who are 
no longer at that 
fucking ZIP code and 
those slightly bigger 
bastards who live in 
that 
incestuous 
apartment complex." 

Justin 
and 
I 
discussed the show 
more over the next 
week. "I watch it 
basically to mock it, 
but it has occasional 
redeeming points. I 
don't see it as the voice 
of my generation any 
more than 90210, as both are unrealistic 
portrayals of largely one-sided characters 
who represent some particular stereotype." 

My quest to ascribe any sort of social 
meaning to it somewhat disturbed him. "It 
scares me that anyone could EVER identify 
with the show or actually gain edification 
from it. I shudder to think that our world 
and value system have devolved to that 
level.'' 

This last note left me unsettled: is my 
concern about Melrose much ado about 
nothing, 
or 
does 
"the 
Melrose 
phenomenon" (as Cathy calls it) mean 
something? Jason Rogart, a Brown 
freshman whom I met on the Net, believes 
that Melrose is just average, escapist fare. 
"Being on the East Coast, I guess I also 
wish that I was living the life of Billy, 
Jake, or one of the other Melrose guys 
because their lives seem so easy and laid-
back. I think this escape from reality into a 
different life is the biggest reason why 
college students all over the country are 
addicted." 

Maybe Justin and Jason are right. 
Maybe we just watch to mock, to relieve 
the pressures of college life, to fantasize 
about our day in the sun that may come 
after graduation. Andrew graduated this 
spring and-surprise-hopes to go to 
California: proof positive that Melrose can 
change your life. 



**Melrose Place**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
But part of Melrose's multifarious appeal lies in the way that it invites community. You can't watch it alone-that would be contrary to the Melrose Place ethos. Even if we fans spout shallow, cacty, and over-intellectualized comments at the screen while we watch, we do so together. For us, MP means quality time.

Michael, Jane, and Sydney may well represent the complete meltdown of family values ("Honestly, Sydney ... "). Fine. But somehow, Spelling's silly sun-drenched apartment complex feels like a family. Incestuous? Very. Dysfunctional? Of course-this is the '90s. But when the stalker came after Amanda a few weeks ago, Jo and Alison put aside their anger (she slept with their boyfriends, but so what?) and helped her torture him. And it's not just the Melrose women who know about real friendship: Jake may have decked Billy at his engagement party for sleeping with Amanda, but the very next week they worked things out and enjoyed some great male-bonding. So even though someone attempts murder in the season finale, Melrose remains one big happy family.

More importantly, it's just like Sesame Street, the show we all sat and watched together when we were little. Amanda, Matt, and Hillary have a lot in common with Oscar the Grouch, Bert and Ernie, and the late Mr. Hooper, respectively. Every time we watch, there they are, predictable and pre-scripted in a familiar residential setting.

"Who are the people in your neighborhood?" Once they were the grocer, the crossing guard, and the nurse. We're older now, and "the people who we meet when we're walking down the street" look a lot like Billy and Alison, with a little bit of Sydney thrown in for good measure. Today's letter is C ... for condom. Our show today is brought to you by the number 8 and Miller Genuine Draft. We're jaded young viewers, but we still need a familiar address to call home. We're mass-culture cynics, but we still hunger for community by the television's flickering light. First we wanted our mommies to find Channel 13, then we wanted our MTV. Does it really surprise anyone that we now want Melrose so badly?

I called him pathetic at first, but maybe jmiller@connected.com had it right, asking for directions to our favorite fictional locale: say, I'm going to L.A. soon ... Can you tell me how to get, how to get to Melrose Place?

[Author's note: A long summer has passed since I gathered my notes. Everything has changed. MP is moving to Monday nights, its slot filled by a slick spin-off, Models Inc., which tells the tawdry tales of the "girls" who work at Hillary's modeling agency. Don't ask me what I think of it-I couldn't bear to watch without my Wednesday night posse.]


**When Cities Go Green**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

I've been mistaken for a stereotypical "dumb forester": a person who would rather spend his time working in a forest cutting sawlogs, hunting, fishing, and driving a pick-up truck than working in an office. My friends describe me as "bearded and burly." I may look the part, but preconceptions can mislead. Rather than as a "timber beast," I see myself as an environmental steward, combining conservation, preservation, and restoration activities while working with human communities in their environments. Such perceptions, though, are more than a matter of self-identity; conventional wisdom's mis-definitions of what the environment is, and where it is, skew environmental priorities.

Five years ago, as a Masters student, I helped start a new program at the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies: The Urban Resources Initiative (URI). The idea for the program stemmed from a conversation between Bill Burch, Professor of Natural Resource Sociology at the School of Forestry, and the late Dr. Ralph Jones, Director of Baltimore's Department of Parks and Recreation. After listening to Burch describe Yale's extensive work in community forestry and community development overseas, Jones asked why Yale was not involved with similar work in the United States, particularly in the inner cities.

Which brings me into the picture. Burch asked me to work with the city of Baltimore to identify ways in which Yale could become involved in urban areas. Surprisingly, inner-city Baltimore revealed many of the same challenges as the rural areas in Nepal, where forestry students were then working. Trapped in deteriorating social, economic, and environmental systems, Baltimore's communities hungered for a change. And even in the midst of such hardships, opportunities were waiting to be pursued. Baltimore boasted 6,500 acres of parkland, 300,000 street trees, 80 miles of streams flowing into the Chesapeake Bay, 6,500 city-owned abandoned lots, 276 neighborhoods, and 736,000 people.

But how to combine streams and neighborhoods, parks and people? To take advantage of these resources and opportunities, I helped develop neighborhood-based gardens, community forestry projects, and job programs to revitalize neighborhoods while restoring the natural environment. I witnessed radical changes among individuals, neighborhoods, government agencies, and networks within the city. In environmental education programs, young people developed self-confidence by working together to climb 150-foot cliffs and to restore abandoned lots. An inner-city "garden-raising" mobilized a hundred volunteers to build and plant tree nurseries in a single day. Entire city agencies began to re-organize. Based on watershed boundaries, the Department of Recreation and Parks restructured itself in order to manage the city's natural resources more effectively. Non-profit organizations, public agencies, community groups, and academic institutions formed coalitions to sustain these projects. Reflecting on these experiences, I have come to realize that urban revitalization and environmental restoration are inextricably linked. Yet traditional environmentalists continue to neglect their roles in cities.

Working in Baltimore and then in New Haven through the URI program, I have discovered the potential to re-invent our cities through a new brand of environmental urbanism. Seventy-nine percent of



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Morgan Grove**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the world's population lives in urban areas. And as the world's 
population increases and societies become more urban, expanding 
metropolises will place greater demands on surrounding natural 
resou rce systems. For instance, housing developmen t in the 
Baltimore region between 1980 and 1990 caused the highest level 
of deforestation (180,000 acres) in the northeastern United States. 
Losing forests increases stormwater runoff and water pollution, 
thereby damaging regional ecosystems such as the Chesapeake Bay 
and the Long Island Sound. And within urban areas themselves, 
environmental, racial, and class inequities th reaten community 
stability and health. Change will not come quickly; the process of 
restoration req uires long-term commitments and a sense of 
humbleness in the face of these challenges. Beware of those who 
think they know best. 


fter Ralph Jones challenged Yale to develop a new focus for 
environmental action, others inspired me to rethink who 
hould lead the efforts to revitalize these areas. D uring a 
presentation at the School of Forestry, Wes Jackson, Director of the 
Land Institute, delivered a challenge in his midwestern drawl: "At 
Yale you have had Gifford Pinchot and Aldo Leopold, but what 
have you done lately?" (Pinchot established both the U.S. Forest 
Service and the Yale School of Forestry, and Leopold, in The Sand 
County Almanac, popularized an ethic of conservation.) Jackson's 
question caught me off guard. I was surprised to think that we, as a 
university, were supposed to do something about the environment. 
After all, aren't universities only su pposed to accumulate 
knowledge, repackage it, and then dispense it? But actually do 
something in the real world? And if universities are to act, do we 
have a legacy of traditions and lessons to translate into innovative 
solutions for the future? In all these cases, I believe the answer is 
yes. 


Yale certainly has a tremendous h istory of producing 
environmentalists. Besides Pinchot and Leopold, Yale's alumni 
include Frederick Law Olmsted, who designed New York City's 
Central Park, to Robert Moses, who built upon Olmsted's work 
and structured that city's parks and parkway system. 


What do these former Yalies have in com mon? Products of the 
Progressive Era, they believed that government could serve as a 
positive force in solving society's problems. They translated these 
beliefs into public service careers devoted to the environment. They 
acted. Today, many of their works lie incomplete or discarded; their 
principles, abandoned. But the efforts of Olmsted, Moses, Pinchot, 
and Leopold provide insight into what we, as univer.sities, should 
do now. 


Ideally, a university should foster a sense of public duty among 
students, naining them to work in government, non-profit 
organizations, and the private sector to remedy society's injustices. 
Within the university context, these values and skills can converge 
into environmental action. 


It is in such a context that URI works with the classical 
definition of a university's three roles: research, education, and 
extension. We have studied the social and economic factors that 
affect individual and community participation in forestry projects. 
We have developed programs for local youth, city agency 
personnel, and Yale students. And in terms of extension, my 
responsibilities have varied from working as a technician 
identifying tree diseases to writing watershed management plans. 
Through these tasks, I have gained knowledge of the possible and 
developed the skills to achieve it. 


But how to combine streams and 
neighborhoods, parks and people? 


But I have also learned why so much of the work of Olmsted, 
Pinchot, Moses, and Leopold remains undone. These past Yalies 
saw only two vehicles for action-individuals and government. 
They promoted populist ideals but were unwilling to trust 
communities with the power to achieve their goals. Communities 
can provide an intermediary between individuals and government 
in a continuum of environmental action. 


To mobilize individuals, communities, and government 
agencies for effective environmental action, we need to focus on 
four primary areas. First, we need ro re-orient government to 
respond more effectively to people's needs and to treat 
communities as part of the solution instead of part of the problem. 
We also need to develop intra- and inter-jurisdictional cooperation. 
A great deal of the Chesapeake Bay and the Long Island Sound's 
problems arise from the inability of federal, state, and local agencies 
to work together. 'Secondly, we need ro increase the amount of 
information available to public agencies and community activists. 
Too often, officials horde information and use it as power. Thirdly, 
we need to develop training and educational programs that provide 
people with the information and skills ro identify and meet their 
needs. We describe this educational program as the three As: 
awareness, appreciation, and action. 
•Awareness: In our youth programs, we work in the field to 
help students understand the connections between their individual 
actions, their community, and their environment-the air they 
breathe, the water they drink, and the fish 
they eat from the Bay. At the beginning of 
our program in Baltimore, we asked the 
students to name three bodies of water 
near their homes. None of the students 
could answer the question even though 
they lived within a mile of the Chesap.eake 
Bay. 
•Appreciation: 
These 
young 
participants raised questions about the 
importance and value of the environmem 
compared to other things: jobs, cars, 
money, or a big house. Other questions 
came lip as well. What will you wanr to 
leave for your children and grandchildren? 
Or why do we worry more about other 
countries while ignoring the problems in 
our 
backyard? 
Once a student said to me, 
"Trees produce oxygen 
and we need oxygen. So trees 
are good. But there 
ain't no trees where I live. 
How come we keep 
worrying about raintrees 
in Brazil and not the trees 
where we are?" 
Once a student said to 
me, 
"Trees 
produce oxygen 
and 
we 
need 
oxygen. So trees 
are good. 
But 
there ain't no 
trees where I live. 
How come we 
keep 
worryin' 
about raintrees in 
Brazil and not the 
trees where we 
are?" 
•Action: As our youth program 
progresses, we work with students to 
develop strategies for translating problems 
into solutions. After students learned about 
the impact of illegal dumping in the 
Chesapeake Bay, they visited a site where 
dumping had taken place. They responded 
by calling city officials to inform them of 
the problems. At the same time, they 
suggested possible solution to city 
representatives and went to clean the site 
themselves. Last week, students and city 
employees finally completed a clean-up of 
the area. 


Finally, we must develop programs that 
put rhese partnerships, information, and 
skills to work. 


These four principles read like a simple 
recipe. But underlying them, an integrated 
effective 
framework 
for 
an 
environmental activism must coordinate 
social, economic, and ecological issues. To 
mobilize action, however, we will fail if we 
assume responsibility solely as individuals 
or we try to force responsibility as 
government. Success requires creating a 
movement that pervades communities, 
business, non-profits, government, and 
universities. I envision it would be 
something akin to what Arlo Guthrie sang 
in "Alice's Restaurant Anti-Massacre 
Movement:" "If one person walks in and 
sings 'You can get anything you want at 
Alice's Restaurant,' they'll think he's 
crazy. If fifty 
people a day 
walk in singing 
a bar of Alice's 
Restaurant, they 
might think it's a 
movement. And 
that's what it will 
be: a movement." 


In 
all 
sertousness, we 
can 
construct 
such a movement 
if we choose to 
learn from the 
legacy and lessons 
of our past and 
present. Ten years ago, when I was an 
undergraduate, Yale lacked any campus-
wide environmental movement of 
consequence. Awareness of and appreciation 
for environmental action has certainly 
grown on campus since then. Today, our 
challenge is to learn effective stategies for 
action. It's something we, as a university of 
students, faculty, and alumni can do lauly. 
It's something that we should do lately. 


URI and the university are nor the whole 
answer. Over time, as we leave the 
university context, we will all have to decide 
what comributions we will make. 
181 
Morgan Grov~ (TC '87, MFS '91) is a Ph.D. 
candidau in Natural Rmurc~ Sociology in th~ 
Yal~ School of For~stry and Environmmtal 
Studi~s. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 



HAIRCUTTING 
Full Line of Haircutting 
77 Broadway 
INSIDE YALE CO-OP 
777-9186


NEW ANo UsED BooKs 
UFO's·Occu/t ·Metaphysics 
Also: t-shins, ;-ky, -ndles and more 
3 Bishop Street · New Have n, CT 
At the corner of Bishop & State 
(203)562 ·2300 
spacebooks@aol.com 
Ask about our mai.umkr catalog


Yale Rep 
1994-95 SFASON 
Antigone in New York 
Figaro/Figaro 
Twelfth Night 
Slavs! 
Uncle ~nya 
ANew Play 
STUDENT PASS 
6 PLAYS FOR $48 
432-1234


Resumes) tabletents) 
posters) course material) 
typesetting from 
Macintosh disks 
&whatnot ... 
432-copy(432-2679) 
Septembery ()ctobery 
January) February: 
8-6:30 Mon.-Thurs. 
8-s Fri. 
lVovember, lJecember, 
· March through August: 
8-s Mon.-Fri. 
Copies 
only 
4¢* 
Still the 
lowest 
• 
przces 
in Elm 
City! 
• pe,- copy for more than ten copies 
of the same original; 
the price is 4f2 cents each 
for one to ten copies.




AL\1 OST-- ''----=---
________ ~------~----------~1wHOL~ALE\~---
--------------------------~1 OffiCE 
\~---.;....._ 
--~-----------------------~1 ' sUPPLY 
\~--
EVERYDAY LOW PRICES 
+15o/o STUDENT DISCOUNT 
OVER 30o/o SAVINGS / 
27 BROADWAY, NEW HAVEN 
776-3626 

