Publication date: 08/14
Volume 47, Issue 1

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AUGUST 2014
37
Cook explained the com­
pany’s services: a patent search 
and feasibility report ($800 to 
$1,100) and then, should the 
projections look promising, rep­
resentation (another $8,000 to 
$11,000). It wasn’t cheap, but 
I was beginning to believe in 
my idea. Besides, only a cow­
ard folds a royal flush. More­
over, I didn’t have to put down 
any money just yet. I charged 
ahead 
with 
my 
pitch 
and 
slid the preliminary sketches 
across the table. 

I call it the Wrapper-Com­
pactor: a little tube for dispos­
ing wrappers and other small 
pieces of trash, complete with a 
little plunger to cram them into 
the bottom. Never again would 
Cook have to worry about the 
detritus generated by the dish 
of Jolly Ranchers on his desk. 
I could tell he was impressed. 
He submitted my idea to Tom 
D’Francesco, at the New York 
office, for review.

“If anybody,” D’Francesco 
told me over the phone, “—my­
self, Carl, anybody—tells you, 
‘Yeah you have a great idea,’ 
they’re blowing smoke up your 
butt.” I tried not to let his gruff 
manner discourage me. “If we 
went on every inventor’s gut 
feelings, I don’t even wanna tell 
you where we’d be.”

I asked for more informa­
tion on Invents Company’s top 
products, but he dodged the 
question. His advice was simple: 
“Don’t compare yourself. Don’t 
get caught up on the products 
that made it. Focus on all the 
products that didn’t make it. 
Find out why they didn’t make 
it.” Defiantly eager to behold 
success, I called up one of the 
inventors touted on the Invents 
Company website. 

Anthony Capozzo lives on 
a quiet street in Milford, Con­
necticut, with his wife and two 
children, in a house with central 
heating, bathrooms, and a back­
yard deck fashioned with his 
own two hands. He makes a liv­
ing repairing washing machines, 
dryers, microwaves, and refrig­
erators, and has mounds of spare 
parts stockpiled in his own per­
sonal man cave. He also sawed a 
hole in the ceiling so that he has 
space to practice his golf swing. 

The ultimate do-it-yourself­
er, Capozzo invented the Sure 
Tarp, a tarp with weighted edges, 
so that when a storm blows in, 
you can cover your gear quickly 
(no need for bungee cords) and 
head indoors. He took his idea 
on the train into Manhattan, 
entered a 7th Avenue skyscraper 
and rode the elevator up to the 
11th floor, where a representa­
tive named Phil laid out the 
total cost of his venture with 
Invents 
Company: 
$12,000. 
This was out of Capozzo’s price 
range, but when he pitched 
the investment to his siblings, 
they got on board. The Capoz­
zos love to gamble, he says, and 
the Sure Tarp was an once-in-a
-lifetime opportunity. 

After completing the initial 
research, Invents Company de­
veloped a thirty-second televi­
sion commercial to gauge con­
sumer interest in the Sure Tarp. 
Despite D’Francesco’s claim that 
the company runs ads in careful­
ly calculated locations to get an 
accurate understanding of the 
product’s potential, the ad ran 
a total of four times exclusively 
in San Diego, where the average 
annual precipitation is less than 
twelve inches. By comparison, 
Capozzo’s hometown of Milford 
gets 50 inches per year. Though 
consumer response was posi­
tive, Capozzo was told, none of 
the 30,000 manufacturers in 
the Invents Company network 
were interested in producing 
the invention.

When I visited Capozzo at 
home, I saw that the firewood 
in his backyard is covered by 
an old-fashioned tarp. It had 
been there ever since his pro­
totype broke. He has vented 
about the debacle to his next-
door neighbor, Bob. We mean­
dered over to Bob’s stoop, and 
Bob launched into a rant about 
those insufferably out-of-touch 
New Yorkers who let the Sure 
Tarp die. It’s a conversation the 
two friends have rehashed time 
and time again.  

“We all hope Tony gets rich!” 
Bob said. 

“No, I don’t wanna get rich, 
Bob,” Capozzo replied. “I just 
wanna pay my mortgage off.”

When Cook informed me 
that Invents Company had de­
cided to pass on the Wrapper-
Compactor, I chalked it up to 
bureaucratic myopia and turned 
my attention to the other suit­
ors who had been flooding my 
voicemail with eager entreaties.

There was Bob White, of 
Patently Brilliant, who told me, 
“Yours is a long term product—
it’ll be around for a long, long 
time,” and informed me of the 
$800 pay-to-play fee.

There was Didier from Mi­


--- Page 38 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
38
ami who, before even mention­
ing the price tag for his com­
pany’s services, asked, “Are you 
doing this alone or do you have 
support from your family?”

But there was one man who 
seemed different than the rest. 
His name is Stephen P. Gnass, 
and inventors of all stripes sing 
his praises on the testimonials 
page of his website. 

“I have come to depend 
on him to protect me from my 
own excitement to keep me 
from making a poor decision,” 
confess the inventors of the 
Swivel Car Seat.

“Stephen has a seemingly 
bottomless wellspring of knowl­
edge,” writes the creator of Bliss 
Trips: Guided Journey CDs.

“You zeroed in on what we 
needed to do and showed us 
exactly how to move towards 
bringing our dreams to fruition,” 
attest the inventors of the Metra 
Stress Reducer. 

Gnass’ website describes 
him as a TV-famous “inventors’ 
advocate.” Though he holds no 
patents himself, he has made a 
career of advising inventors. He 
offers prospective clients a thir­
ty-minute “free complimentary 
brainstorm,” just the sort of no-
strings wisdom I’d been looking 
for. Before our call, I consulted 
his 
“Successtimonials” 
page, 
where I read of Gaile Spalione, 
inventor of Mop Flops. I decid­
ed to track her down.

When I reached Spalione at 
her home in Reseda, California, 
she was babysitting her grand­
children. She conceived of dual-
purpose footwear around sev­
enteen years ago, as she bustled 
about the house caring for her 
children and dreamed of a way 
to collapse two domestic duties 
into one. She took her idea to a 
variety of companies, and ended 
up losing $25,000 to crooked 
people who promised much and 
delivered nothing. She attempt­
ed to file suit against one such 
racketeer, Davison & Associ­
ates, but was ultimately unable 
to recoup any losses.

In 2000, Spalione filed for 
and received a patent, paid to 
manufacture a first round of 
booties, and produced a com­
mercial for a local television 
station. The cost was exorbi­
tant, but her mother generously 
mortgaged her house to help 
fund the venture. 

Still looking for ways to pro­
mote her product, she found a 
convention geared for inventors 
looking to market their wares. 
She paid the entrance fee and set 
up a booth to promote her prod­
uct. At the convention she met 
the organizer, Stephen P. Gnass. 
He offered her a free consulta­
tion, and the two quickly devel­
oped a rapport. 

“Dear Stephen,” Spalione’s


--- Page 39 ---

39
AFTER ELI WHIT­
NEY ’92 (THAT’S 
1792) INVENTED 
THE COTTON GIN, 
YALIES ALL BUT 
DITCHED THE 
BUSINESS OF SIM­
PLER MACHINES.
Successtimonial reads, “I must 
take this opportunity to express 
my sincerest gratitude for hav­
ing your sound advice and wis­
dom guiding me through this 
tangled invention process. You 
are my rock!”

The piles of unsold Mop 
Flops in Ms. Spalione’s garage—
roughly 2,000 pairs—offer a 
markedly less reassuring testa­
ment to the difficulty of making 
it as an inventor. She had con­
tacted a Chinese manufacturer 
in hopes of lowering produc­
tion costs, but when the ship­
ment arrived, she discovered the 
measurements had been lost in 
translation, leaving her with a 
lifetime supply of Mop Flops 
too miniature to wear.

Though Spalione doesn’t 
regret the venture and remains 
a devotee of Gnass, she admits 
disappointment at the outcome.

“I was hoping my idea 
would take off and I would 
become 
a 
millionaire 
over­
night,” she recalled wistfully. 
“I’m still waiting.” 

For Spalione and count­
less other would-be inventors 
facing similar marketing and 
supply-chain complications, the 
prospect of a one-stop-shop 
that shepherds you from idea to 
product is a tempting one. But 
as I learned from Gnass during 
our complimentary conversa­
tion, it’s never that easy.

“You would think that there 
would be a company that does 
it all for you,” Gnass told me. 
“Just hire them and they’ll do 
the drawing, make the proto­
type, give you the book, do the 
research, and take the invention 
to trade shows.” That was exactly the 
impression I’d been under.

My associates at Invents and else­
where had led me to believe they could 
magically bring my idea into reality. But 
having gone toe-to-toe with these com­
panies for decades, Gnass wanted to set 
the record straight: “They don’t make 
their money from the invention, they 
make their money from the inventor. 
They’re not stealing inventions or any­
thing like that because that’s not where 
they make their money.”

In other words, they operate by 
selling inventors’ ideas back to the in­
ventors themselves. The multi-phase, 
official-sounding process does little to 
advance the product to market. Instead, 
it exists to enamor inventors of their 
own ideas. These companies charge a 
small fortune and deliver their clients an 
overestimate of market demand and an 
exaggerated feasibility report.  

The world of analog innovation 
these days requires more than ingenu­
ity and elbow grease; at some point, 
you have to call in the professionals. 
The creation of an inventing industry 
within corporate R&D departments 
leaves outside inventors to navigate an 
obstacle course that almost always costs 
them thousands of dollars before they 
give up and leave their idea by the way­
side. Whereas software developers or 
app inventors—the tinkerers of my gen­
eration—can go from concept to mar­
ket without lifting a finger from Home 
Row, junk inventors depend on entities 
much larger than themselves. Even a ge­
nius can no longer act alone—and that 
leaves him vulnerable. That’s why com­
panies like Invents Company exist, and 
why they will continue to exist as long 
as average Americans like myself dream, 
even of junk, beyond our means.

John Stillman is a 2014 
graduate of Yale College.