Publication date: 04/88
Volume 20, Issue 6

**Yale's Flying History**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When David Ingalls '36 came home from Yale's activities represent only the most recent contribution to a tradition of aviation at Yale.  Since inception of Yale's first flying club in 1910, the University has had no fewer than seven aeronautical organizations. While some of these clubs have had a negligible impact on even the Yale community, others have influenced aviation throughout the country, making national headlines. All told, Yale had some form of flying organization, either sanctioned or opposed by the University, in 57 of the last 78 years.


Even before they were able to get their hands on an aircraft, Yale students devoted themselves to the emerging science of aeronautics. In 1910, for members of the Yale Aero Club, model airplanes were serious business. Materials for the construction of model monoplanes and were available to club members at University Repair shop, and students worked for weeks to perfect their model gliders in the hopes of winning the college competition. At the first "Exhibit of Air Contrivances," the winning model monoplane traveled a distance of 85 feet, 4 inches, before settling to the floor of the Yale Gymnasium.

The club led an active existence for three years before its operations dwindled to dilettantism. "'The time is coming when a knowledge of flying will be as much a part of an American gentleman's accomplishments as golf or automobiling," the club's president told a Yale Daily News reporter in 1913. By the following year, Yale's first aero club was defunct.


While it lasted, the Yale Aero Club allowed its members to fly its newly acquired glider and also arranged the first aviation exhibition sponsored solely by a college aeronautical organization. In a two-day program in May 1911, hundreds of spectators paid a dollar a head to watch two expert aviators perform stunts over the old Yale Field. Among other tricks, one pilot tossed baseballs from his Curtiss biplane to the catcher of the Yale baseball team. The plane's speed of over 50 miles per hour and altitude of 500 feet made catching the projectiles a difficult task, even for the otherwise capable athlete.

The program for the second day included an event that the Yale Daily News depicted as a dramatization of science fiction, "a representation of how two aeroplanes would fight in the air, as described in H.G. Wells' novel The War of the Worlds." The newspaper's description of the mock-dogfight reflected the nation's general disregard for the crucial role air combat would play in a modern war. Even for most of the country's admirals and generals, aerial warfare belonged primarily to the imagination, not to the military, although World War One lay just over three years away. Only seven years would elapse before the first American airman would die in combat, a 24-year-old Yale Aero Club alumnus who was shot down over the North Sea.


With the advent of war in Europe, interest in aeronautics at Yale flourished and ultimately became the backbone of naval aviation in the United States. In the summer of 1916, almost a full year before the United States' entry into the Great War, a group of ambitious Yale undergraduates banded together to learn how to fly a hydroplane. The students, who came to be known as the First Yale Unit, hoped to contribute to the United States' inevitable involvement in the European conflict. When President Woodrow Wilson finally ended his policy of isolation and declared war on Germany in April 1917, the Navy could claim a meager 22 seaplanes and 38 qualified pilots as its aviation force. Four months later, when the First Yale Unit completed its training, its six planes and 26 aviators bolstered the Navy's air power considerably. At the end of the war, the remarkable achievements of the unit inspired Historian Ralph D. Paine to compile a definitive history of the unit's exploits, The First Yale Unit, A Story of Naval Aviation.


As Paine describes, the First Yale Unit began as the brain child of F. Trubee Davison, a Yale sophomore who joined the American Ambulance Field Service for the summer of 1915. While driving an ambulance in France, Davison met aviators who had seen battle. Their descriptions of the excitement and potential of air power appealed immediately to his sense of adventure. The following July, Davison secured the financial support of his father, a partner in the wealthy Wall Street firm, J. P. Morgan & Co. Armed with a letter of introduction from an influential family friend, the younger Davison set off for Washington to ask the Secretary of the Navy whether he might enlist a group of Yale students as a reserve unit. The Secretary was impressed with Davison's initiative; but lacking sufficient funds from Congress, the Navy was unable to establish even the most rudimentary Naval Reserve Flying Corps. Any aviation training on the part of Davison and his friends would have to be privately financed. Both Trubee Davison and his father felt certain that the United States would be in desperate need of pilots if war were declared, and they pushed on with their plans for the private training of the Yale unit. Trubee's father leased an air station in Port Washington, Long Island, while Trubee sent off telegrams to the men he had selected as his fellow aviators. "Yale was a small place in those days," says Trubee's son, Daniel Davison (DC '49). "Dad knew everybody in his class. These were all people he had played around with- a lot of them were football players, and there were a lot of senior society types. It was really a clubby little outfit they had there." Within a couple of weeks, the 12 original members of the First Yale Unit had set up camp in the rooms of the Davison estate, a short drive from the air station. Flight training began immediately.


At the beginning of their training, the student aviators had only one flying-boat at their disposal, an aeronautical jalopy called Mary Ann, which Trubee's father and uncle soon supplemented with two additional planes. John Farwell III ('18), the only member of the unit still living, remembers the flying-boats as highly unstable machines. Although Farwell's speech is often garbled, his memories are still lucid, down to the most minute detail. "They were very crude boats, not planes," he recalls. "They had a great heavy weight on the bottom, and we guessed it would take a thousand feet to get out of a tailspin, but at that time nobody knew much about the aircraft at all." Most modern airplanes are well-balanced and rarely go into what aviators call a "graveyard spin." "The F-boat took off at 4-8 miles an hour, and she had a top speed of about 55," Farwell adds. "So you couldn't afford to make many mistakes, could you?" Today, YA's slowest plane