Publication date: 04/88
Volume 20, Issue 6

**Title:  Yale's Distributive Studies Program: A Debate on Tradition**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The assumption of a patriarchal perspective of Western culture." Outsiders such as women are usually saved for the last week of class, and inserted in such a haphazard way that, as Wright said, "no wonder no one believes they really belong to the tradition." The committee wanted to avoid tokenism by building in questions of gender and race from the beginning of the pro-gram. 

One proposal was to read the sonnets of Petrarch alongside those of his contemporary Louise Labe, who challenged the way Petrarch represented women in his poetry. Timothy Hampton, an assistant professor of French who teaches DS Literature, implemented this suggestion, and said the dialogue among the students and the two poets was exciting. "Most of my students ended up liking Labe better than Petrarch," he added. 

Although DS incorporated a few of the committee's suggestions, the proposal as a whole met rejection. The committee had wanted to read a slave narrative by Frederick Douglass alongside writings of Emerson, Whitman, and Dickinson. "We thought it was important for American students to read a slave narrative, and we thought it could help establish a background against which to read Toni Morrison's Beloved, an Afro-American work," said Wright. The other literature instructors rejected this as untraditional, and generally thought the proposal too revisionary. Hampton said that while he applauded many aspects of the proposal, the report went too far in attempting to "make DS a course about gender issues." Overall, Wright was disappointed by the prevailing opinion that "tradition is not something to be innovated upon." 

"The report was full of practical suggestions," said Cyrus Hamlin, professor of Comparative Literature, who has taught in and coordinated both DS and the Humanities major. Hamlin does not mind revising DS as long as the program retains its concentration on texts, not social history. "The whole point is to maintain a sense of center, with an occasional touch on the periphery," he said. But the definition of that center is exactly the problem. The question demands a critical examination of the political, social, and artistic biases that determine what is central and what is peripheral. Hamlin said that while it is necessary for peripheral voices to hear themselves reflected in what they read, part of the value of the humanities comes from "a confrontation with otherness and strangeness." Hamlin explained that DS starts with texts like the Bible and Homer because they are the hardest to relate to, because the perspective is so different. Yet the most influential books we read are those that balance between our own perspective and one that challenges us. Grabbing on to what we recognize in a text, we use that hold to grapple with questions that confound our vision. 

Hexter warns against the desire to see our reflection in what we read. "Affirmation can be very heady, but very dangerous," he said. "It's a very American democratic idea that everyone should find representation in the canon: People want the works they read to tell them something about themselves. This notion comes out of the romantic tradition- that literature must reflect who you are." Hexter says being gay doesn't keep him from appreciating the tradition. "I don't read to hear my own voice," he said. "I learn more from hearing different voices." 

Hexter is correct in pointing out the danger of self-affirmation. But most peripheral groups do not want to read their own literature simply in order to shake their fists and proclaim their own strength. Certainly, there is an element of pride involved, but more important is the desire to hear a new voice speak and have it be recognized. The DS History and Politics class, for example, studies 2,500 years of political thought without considering that women lived outside the economic and political power structures for most of this time. Testimony from a single voice creates monotonous history. 

Tension between outside and inside continually reshapes the canon. Hexter points out that a crisis in the canon occurred in the Roman Empire after Christianity became the state religion. People wondered how to read the classics, written from a heathen perspective. They solved the problem by reinterpreting them. Scholars devoted their efforts to explaining how Aristotle was consistent with Christianity.  They pulled the canon back into the center by seeing it in the light of their own ideology. 

Outsiders' attempts to widen the canon underlie its development. Dante, now a canonical figure, wrote his Divine Comedy in Italian to give expression to his native language within the Latin tradition. Although previous standards disdained the vernacular, Dante stretched their boundaries. His writing challenged the assumptions of the canon and induced change. Nancy Seybold (ES '88), a Humanities major, explained, "It's easy to say, 'yeah, I'm a woman, and none of these old farts were women.' But they had their own ways of being on the outside." The definitions of "outside" are not static. Although the outsiders have changed, feeling excluded is nothing new. 

But this does not invalidate the concerns of those on the fringe. They must wonder how they fit into the tradition that "forms the basis of Western culture," as the Yale College Programs of Study describes the Humanities major. Studying the Western tradition, women and minorities explore how the canon has categorized them, and how they might escape these imposed definitions. But such a way of reading becomes tiresome. It is difficult to find oneself always attacked or objectified. "It does something to you to spend four years reading things like John Donne discussing women as continents," said Carla Power (QE '88), an English ma-