Publication date: March 3, 1968
Volume: one
Issue number: nine

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor: Daniel H. Yergin
- Publisher: Peter Yaeger
- Executive Editor: Jeffrey Pollock
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Advertising Manager: Jeffrey Denner
- Associate Editor: Jonathan Lear
- Circulation Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Copy Editor: Alan Wachtel
- Classifieds: William M. Burstein
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, Michael Lerner
- Staff: John Soak, Paul Bennett, Peter M. C. Choy, Jennifer Josephy, Larry Lasker, Christopher Little, Howard Newman, Andrew Popper, William Rhodes, Barne Rubin, Sam Sutherland, Warner Wada


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Annette hangs on the New Wave of surf films - Mopsy Strange Kennedy
- Two cellists: Parisot and Kirshbaum - Robert Wimpelberg
- One alumnus took upon himself the responsibility for grabbing and refilling Brewster's beer glass every time the president emptied it. It was Alumni Day - Lawrence Lasker
- After the Bomb in Hiroshima: the psychohistory of the survivors - Daniel Yergin
- Letters: Air war in Vietnam and Joseph Heller
- In Comment: the Smith College all-star slavery conference; the Elizabethan Club, where tea is in but the modern woman is out; and a brief look fr()m behind the cameras at Mayor Lindsay's television show.


**Times are Changing at Yale**
**Author: Susan Braudy**
**Page number(s): 2, 18**

Times are changing at Yale. Take the basement room with crumbling wicker furniture that was once the women's sanctuary in Sterling Library. This room was the feminine counterpart to the Linonia and Brothers library room upstairs. "L&B," as Linonia and Brothers is known to the regulars who sleep on its leather couches, was closed to women until four years ago. Women did their light reading down in the basement next to the ladies' toilets.

Today, this basement room still lies directly under L&B in the tradition of the Martha Washington Bridge, but it has been modestly refurbished in dinky Danish modern. And Yale's lucky ladies have had four free and equal years in L&B.

Yes, times are changing. Though not too quickly. Take the Elizabethan Club, which is fondly called the "Lizzie" by its regulars. Unsurprisingly and in the Yale tradition, the Lizzie-an ornate shrine to Queen Elizabeth, matriarch of an era-invites male members only into its white clapboard house on College Street.

Women may visit on rare occasions, visit and not join, the Lizzie to partake of its refined atmosphere. They may visit on weekends, as guests of members. And on spring weekends, they may sit, quietly, in the back yard.

"What is a nice girl like you doing in a place like this?" silently asks Her Majesty from a gold-framed oil painting above the voluptuous spread of soft cookies, dainty watercress sandwiches on crustless rye and steaming lapsang suchong tea brewed a point.

"Madam," I say to the Queen, decorously lowering my mental voice as I walk across the carpet to her table spread, "Madam, I am here in the Elizabethan Club as a humble voyeur, a tourist, a guest of a member." I listen to polite sloshing sounds made by Lizzie regulars, the afternoon tea drinkers.

"Mercy, this strained tea droppeth as the gentle rain upon my waistcoat," says an elderly indolent voice wearing an exquisite glen plaid suit with an English cut. A gentle rumble of laughter follows his remarks. T-groups among the teacups, at the Lizzie. If music had been playing, it would have been a mincing eighteenth-century minuet. The gentleman clad in glen plaid sits with a group of four who look like the Mighty Carson Art Players on the Tonight show playing elderly Oxonians for the insomniacs of America.

My tale's end must be foreshadowed at this point. Six important facts. (I) Following my entrance I feel a long silence with paranoia licking at its edges. This is a cold winter's afternoon, a Monday afternoon. (2) And my undergraduate host, a new member, has failed to notice the sign at the door of the club. The sign, visible to members only, reads: Curb Your Girls. (3) But I pragmatically ignore the silence. I pour the steaming, fragrant tea into my cup, load my saucer with sandwich cookies and nod to Her Majesty in Her gold frame. We share a kinship, a rapport. For we, of course, are the only females in the place. (4) I follow my host into the adjoining room.

This room is different. In it sit three undergraduates. The atmosphere, heavy compared to any other undergraduate hang-out, is buoyant compared to that in the first room. (5) A senior reads aloud from a Punch article on drug culture innuendoes. Another, who uses twine instead of shoelaces, guiltily washes down six watercress sandwiches with three cups of tea. He has slept through lunch, he explains between bites, and plans to go back to sleep again sometime before dinner.

(6) Then out of the silence in the next room, the steward of the club appears. "I'm sorry," he announces to the far wall, "no women allowed on weekdays."

Says my host, "Does that mean-ah, er, ah." "What does that mean?''

Answers the man, still addressing the wall, "You may stay, sir, but the lady, she must go."

Says my gallant host in ringing tones, "Then I will go, too."

Then confusion, followed by an embarrassed and kaleidoscopically hasty exit. I did not get a chance to return my cup and saucer to the table or even to say goodbye to my new friend, the Queen.

Gentle ladies, I have since fumed and fussed, but to no avail. I have asked close friends to resign quietly from the Lizzie to protest my forced exit. "I knew when I joined," said one close friend, "that women were not allowed in on weekdays. Why should I quit?"

Said another, more militant friend in the legal profession, "To be absolutely correct, before you begin any litigation, you'll have to test this female exclusion clause. Your host will have to escort a peahen, a doe and a lioness to the Lizzie on successive winter Mondays. Your whole case rests on whether the only females they mean to exclude are the human ones or not."

I have spent long hours thinking things over. Gentle ladies, progress is a possibility. Remember L&B. Times are changing. The only male in favor of women at Yale couldn't be the foot nibbler in the library stacks. We have the power.

So here's my plan. On Monday of next week, at 4:20, we meet at the corner of College and Wall. We march down to Elizabeth's Restaurant and go right inside, past the tea drinkers and cookies dunkers and right up to Lizzie herself. And we sing out, "You can get anything you want at Elizabeth's Rest-au-rant." If one of us does it, they'll think she's sick. If two sing it together in harmony, they'll begin to worry. If three do it, they'll think we're an organization. And if four do it, ladies, they'll know we're a movement.


**Slavery**

The subject of discussion was certainly an interesting one, even if it was a little vague. You drove up to Northampton on February 9, expecting that the symposium at Smith College on "American Negro Slavery: Modern Viewpoints" would provoke scholarly discussion and perhaps philosophical dispute that might relate the historical problem of slavery to the current dilemma of race. Such a link-up did in fact take place, but it happened, as it finally turned out, as much by accident as by design. It was a subject, then, in which you had a part, both as a student and as a citizen (if the word may be used)-a subject, moreover, which took on a patina of glamour when you learned who had come to talk about it.

Among the participants was the well-known young Marxist historian, author of The Political Economy of Slavery, Eugene Genovese, now teaching at Sir George Williams University in Montreal, who a couple of years ago, while at Rutgers, became embroiled in a nasty controversy testing the bounds of academic freedom. It began with his advocating, in class, the now not-so-unthinkable overthrow of the Saigon regime. Richard Nixon said Genovese should be fired.

Also present, on Friday night, was William Styron, whose The Confessions of Nat Turner has dragged him into a largely pointless controversy with black militants who think that both Styron and his book are racist. In addition, David Brion Davis, a teacher at Cornell and the author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning study The Problem of Slavery in Western Culture, spoke on Saturday afternoon. There were eleven other historians present, some not as "well-known" as others, but they all had sharp axes to grind and generally seemed to know how to use them.

Four negro historians had been invited, including John Hope Franklin of the University of Chicago, but none could attend. And Harvard's Robert Coles, the author of Children of Crisis, had to back out at the last minute because of another commitment. These cancellations did not, however, prevent the affair-headlined "Negro Symposium" by the Smith College Sophian-from being, in the eyes of many, Smith's event of the year.

Several television cameras were trained from different angles on Eugene Genovese, the first speaker, and on the four panelists sitting beside him. The cameras remained throughout the conference, all-seeing yet unobtrusive, save for the faithful, finally irritating ultrasonic whistle they emitted-the sound you hear, for example, if you turn on your TV set and keep the sound off. An aspect of the situation perhaps less easy to get used to was the number--one might say the sheer weight--of girls. Smith is, after all, the largest womens' college in the world, but the fact remains impersonal, an abstraction, until you sit down in the midst of about a thousand of them and open your eyes. If, when this happens, you have steeled yourself with the love of learning, the effect is, at the very least, distracting: if you are unprepared, the effect can be paralyzing. You were inclined to believe that rarely, if ever, had such a mass of femininity and such a concentration of brain-power been in the same place at the same time.

Genovese's talk, entitled "Slave


**Annette hangs ten**
**Author: Mopsy Strange Kennedy**
**Page number(s): 3**

Mopsy Strange Kennedy is the wife of a Law School student. This is her third qpearance in The New Journal.

No sooner had I stepped into the Art Gallery, where the Annette Funicello Film Festival premiere was being held, than questions began pummelling my brain. It's Art, I thought, looking up at the Gothic arches overhead, but is it Annette? How would Annette herself feel if she were here? We were informed of her inability to "make it," which beach moviegoers bad long suspected anyway.) Perhaps this was the point, certainly an ironic one: an Annette Funicello Festival at which Annette wou.ld feel profoundly out of it, not unlike King Lear, in the play of the same naq~e, cast out of the house by his own daughters.

The film trilogy-Bikini Beach Party, Beach Blanket Bingo and How to Stuff a Wild Bikini-was sponsored by the Record, Yale's humor magazine. The prints of the films were so heavily booked (or closely guarded in the SAC-like underground vaults of major film collectors across the country) that the Record staff had to send to Omaha, Nebraska, to get them. The premiere, Bikini Beach Party, was attended by riff-raff who paid 69¢ ($1.50 for a season ticket) and by others invited by engraved invitation: black tie, shirts soft and/ or frilly, dress spangly, low decollete, Zhivago. Hair was done, and ties were very black indeed. Girls were bussed or came of their own volition, and there were far more of them than usual for a Wednesday night. There was a sort of Jim Crow section for the people not dressed up, but they seemed out of place and not a little cowed in the face of all the formality.

The mood was gay, but not too gay. We went through the receiving line of 25 people (who were identified by printed "My name is ... " labels) and moved on into the auditorium. There, other guests sat respectfully in their seats, neither frugging nor shingalinging it, but merely listening to the rock-'n'-roll qua rock-'n'-roll (played by the Erector Set). The band, and some of the guests, wore Mouseketeer hats.

Faces were set in muscled expressions of concern: there was a tacit understanding that this was no mere dogfood commercial we had gathered together to see.

Standish Lawder, assistant professor of history of art, had been invited to make some "remarks." Here was a man, it was clear from his bearing, who had indeed looked into the abyss of film and seen what lay at its heart. "That man has been to the movies," someone behind me said weightily, "he's really been to the movies.''

Eisenstein, Griffith, Truffaut, Godard and now this.

Mr. Lawder informed us, through slides and commentary, that these beach films did not really "need any indication to locate them in the continuum of American art," and that the "final judgment of whether or not they were true art must rest with history." The audience accepted it all as a gleam in the eye of a Larger Consciousness, something beyond both the niggly backbitting of the Cahiers du Cinema auteurs and the larger-than-life Pamela Mason Knows gossip columns of TV Screen and Movie/and. It was something that belongs to and proceeds from us all, like Grand Central Station.

In his presentation, Mr. Lawder made use of various slides from other media-painting, photography and sculpture. Can a slide of a moonstruck man in the nude be brought to bear on the artistic aspects of Annette movies? "Yes, yes, yes," he seemed to say. This might almost be a metaphor for the whole evening. Even if we make gestures like dressing up and having a film festival, we can never approach the essential aesthetic truth of what Annette has been and always will be. No single action or theory or moment can capture Annette, for she was, we were told, transcendent.

In his discussion of the "fluid acting styles" in this "timeless work," Mr. Lawder made us laugh, and then flinch just a little, by forgetting Annette's real name and calling her "Miss Crudinella" one minute, and "Miss Proxinella" the next. Here repeatedly referred to her as "Anita," which was really a bad mistake. Anita is Anita Bryant, as we all know, and Annette is Annette. It seems, in view of the fact that even a post-teen like Mr. Lawder had trouble with the name, that she might have changed it to Annette Fun, but perhaps that would nave hinted that these movies were not concerned with Art, but were merely entertainment. Which they are not.

Must a picture steer clear of fun things like surfing and drag-racing to be serious? Even Moby Dick has a few laughs.

Just before the film began, there was a standup group singalong of the Mickey Mouse Club Mambo and much discussion about whether the Mickey Mouse Club was or wasn't an allegory of Nazi Germany. One participant buried his head in his hands and spoke of "that horrible rodent Big Brother and those Brownshirt children obeying him and acting out his fantasies."

The rest of us, not concerned with what to do after our demise as Mouseketeers, or with whether we should carry an invitation to walk on the beach with Frankie (Avalon) to its illogical conclusion by mentioning marriage-("Let's go listen to the moon and leave these children," he says. "Until it's wedding bells, I'm children too, Frankie," she retorts.)-the rest of us, free from these considerations, were happy to be able to go into the deeper implications of the Funicellovian ethic.

One of the things about the movie that struck us all was how little there really was of Annette in it. But isn't that life? Aren't our lives merely films, purportedly starring us, in which we turn out to be playing bit parts? This is a film which asks questions: Which is better, surfing or drag-racing? Can coed nights on the beach coexist with chastity? Is the stuff of which evil is made a man or a Mouseketeer? Is God dead or what? And if "what," what?

The movie revolves around the surfer crowd, the Hell's Angels crowd, an English rock-'n'-roller named the Potato Bug and the older generation, embodied in the publisher of The Bikini Bugle. Frankie plays not only himself but also his rival, Potato Bug (as one might say colloquially, "he is his own worst enemy''), in the most telling intramural duality since the "Dialogue of Self and Soul" (W. B. Yeats). We are shown that fair (Frankie) is foul (Eric von Zipper) and that even foul is a little bit cute. Is Frankie the good guy standing there like an ad for men's underwear, eschewing cant and embracing good times on the beach, or is he a power-mad teenager declaring his manifesto: drag-racing is "the way we gotta live, that's what it's all about"? Even more to the point, is he the red-blooded American Frankie of Annette's dreams, or is he the pop-singing English Potato Bug of Annette's dreams?

Annette herself is a problematical heroine in this problem-movie. She is slightly apart-a girl among surfing, dancing, moaning teens, who is like a mad Hamlet commenting on the action, yet indeed doing very little to ruffle the meadow-muffin hairdo on her head. A bit ironic, something of a "goody two-shoes" even, she seems to be waiting for something, but what is it? Her songs give us a clue: "This Time It's Love," she sings-implying that last time it was just some sort of teenage infatuation. She does her singing on the beach, with the sunset (a sort of Gothic nightmare of vivid color) moving behind her in one of the technical low points of the film: we are meant to imagine that she is walking and the sky is standing still, not the other way around.

Annette is Everywoman. Her very Being is trying to tell us that even a rather ordinary girl can find romance. Love is not a beauty contest after all, and as evidence we note that there are other girls in the film who are far better-looking than Annette, who yet remain dateless and are, in fact, allowed only stingy consideration by the camera. These other girls are always frantically pursuing the Potato Bug and wildly frugging out their destinies, whereas Annette, though one of them, is far beyond that. She is asked to dance and refuses. Somewhere at home, we sense, there is a blondwood hope chest filled to the brim with His and Hers towels. The other girls are children; Annette is nearly a post-adolescent.

There is a good deal of discussion, nevertheless, of the puerile, the sophomoric and the jejune. Illiteracy is held up to scorn. At one point, one character accuses another of being a traitor: "You Arnold Benedict," he says, illustrating that a little learning is a dangerous thing.

Frankie, though not solely concerned with the belle-lettristic, is shown to be in at least marginal contact with Reason. We are shown that he has read T. S. Eliot when he echoes the poet's "All time is eternally present .. :" in his speech "All forever is right now." "Then what about tomorrow?" asks Annette. "That's the day after today," he replies, sensibly, showing that this boy knows the difference between literary sophisms and down-to-earth reality. Frankie shows us again and again that he is a Seer of some kind, a maker of distinctions. For example, in discussing the difference between surfing and drag-racing, he points out that "the ocean is wild and free, something you can't change. But this [car] is a machine."

Though we were not required to sign vouchers promising not to reveal the ending, I would rather leave it undisclosed. Suffice it to say that, unlike conventional tragedies, not all the characters die in the end. Indeed, none of the characters die in the end. Our protagonist and her date work out their individual problems and identities, and we have a closing scene which shows a lot of good-natured doing of the monkey, the frug and the jerk, with fleeting shots of Annette smiling and giggling the giggle of the just. A symbol of the fact that we're laughing with Annette, and not at her.




**Two cellists**
**Author: Robert Wimpelberg**
**Page number(s): 4, 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 I The New Journal! March 3, 1968 
Two cellists 
by Robert Wimpelberg 
Robert Wimpelberg, a senior in Yale 
College, is president and principal cellist 
of the Yale Symphony Orchestra. 
It was late in the evening almost a month 
ago, at the reception for cellist Ralph 
Kirshbaum's impressive recital at Sprague 
Hall. The hum of conversation had 
gradually muted and a precipitate of 
champagne glasses littered the tables. 
Three people stood in the center of the 
silent room: Ralph Kirshbaum, his pianist 
Elizabeth Sawyer Parisot, and her hus-
band, Kirshbaum's teacher, Aldo Parisot. 
Parisot was the first to speak. "Ralph," 
he said, "I w.ant to tell you that the slow 
movement of the Brahms Sonata was 
one of the most beautiful movements I 
have ever heard anyone play." The 
master's first critical words brought smiles 
of satisfaction. "But tomorrow we must 
talk about the way you played the Debussy 
Sonata." Parisot did not elaborate. 
Kirshbaum was noticeably happy with 
his teacher's assessment of the Brahms. 
The slow movement had insinuated itself 
into his musical memory as he had pre-
pared for the recital, and it had become his 
personal favorite. As for the Debussy 
Sonata, Kirshbaum's eyes lit up as he 
recaptured the impressions of the recital 
performance a couple of hours earlier. 
"I must say that tonight I was convinced 
with what I did in the Debussy. But we 
must talk about it tomorrow." 
The Debussy Sonata has a tremendous 
significance in Parisot's long and brilliant 
concert career. While he has performed 
the piece m any times, it is always a 1962 
Paris recital performance which comes 
first to his mind. Parisot simply over-
whelmed the influential reviewers of the 
Parisian press, especially Le Figaro. The 
reviewers called it the most beautiful and 
meaningful performance of the French 
impressionist sonata they had heard. Since 
that time Parisot has played the Debussy 
Sonata and large amounts of the cello 
recital and concerto literature all over the 
world with equal success, and even today 
he maintains a busy concertizing schedule . . 
Parisot, then, is not only a teacher of 
performance but also an active performer 
in his own right, with a history matched 
by few other cellists. 


Some of what Parisot conveys to the 
aspiring Kirshbaum is drawn directly from 
Parisot's sensitive impressions of his own 
performance experiences. For: example, 
he can suggest that a certain kind of bow 
stroke in a certain passage of music will 
produce just the right tone to project 
through the piano line, or through an 
orchestral accompaniment, or in the 
acoustics of a certain hall. Beyond the 
specific insights, Parisot's long and still 
active career (he first concertized when be 
was twelve) gives him an overview from 
which he can advise Kirshbaum. 

The initial precept he is quick to estab-
lish is that a performer of music cannot 
rest on his laurels. As he recounts: "I 
played three recitals in Town Hall in New 
York in 1963. The reviews were very 
good to me, but now they are almost 
worthless pieces of paper. So next year 
I will have to go back to Town Hall and 
play again. It's like prizefighting. You 
always have to keep flexing your muscles." 

AJdo Parisot is an internationally-known 
concert cellist and associate professor of 
·violoncello performance in the Yale 
School of Music. 
Ralph Kirshbaum is a senior in Yale Col-
lege, majoring in the theory of music, and 
studying cello performance with Aldo 
Parisot.· 


**Title: 71 The New Journal I March 3, 1968**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal I March 3, 1968 
continued from page 4 
Kirshbaurn follows Parisot's axiom. He 
must take (and create) every opportunity 
possible to prove himself to the listening 
public, and his recent bookings show that 
he is confronting the challenge. In a period 
of about thirty days be will travel from 
New Haven to Washington, D.C., and 
Dallas, Texas, to play two full recitals and 
two major concertos. Parisot says, and 
Kirsbbaum quickly acknowledges, that 
all which Kirshbaum has so far achieved 
is but "a drop in the ocean" of that which 
will ultimately be demanded of him. 


On the day following the Sprague Hall 
recital Kirshbaum met Parisot in his studio 
where they had agreed to discuss his per-
formance and, especially, the Debussy 
Sonata. Parisot said nothing about how 
well Kirshbaum played the Debussy 
Sonata in tune, nor did he instruct him in ' 
any other isolated mechanics of playing 
the instrument. That is no longer neces-
sary. Kirshbaum came to Yale with a 
rigorous technical background, bred 
in a European manner by his family. 
"My exposure to music when I was 
young came entirely within my family," 
says Kirshbaum. "My parents, sister and 
two brothers all played instruments, my 
father conducted the civic orchestra in 
Tyler, Texas, and it was an implicit as-
sumption that I, too, would take up a 
musical instrument. Since my father 
played the violin I was immediately drawn 
to the string family and actually took up 
the violin for a while. At the same time, 
I had noticed the cello, and eventually 
it became the one I really wanted to play. 
So I switched." 


Kirshbaum's prodigal success at an 
early age resulted from the sensitive care 
his parents took in overseeing his practice 
habits. He recalls how his father would 
supervise random sessions: "I remember 
playing scales and carefully maintaining 
the intonation and precision of tempo. 
Now and then a note would not be exactly 
right, yet I would play on. My father never 
failed to interrupt, demanding to know 
where I was going-why I didn't stop to 
correct the note before going on." Unerr-
ing exactness became part of Kirshbaum's 
technique. 


As he progressed, his father insisted 
on putting him into the hands of cello 
teachers. From age twelve, Kirshbaum and 
his father made weekly 1 00-mile excur-
sions to Dallas for instruction-a routine 
they continued for six years. "In general, 
I didn't like the routine of practicing at 
that time," says Kirshbaum, "but I loved 
to play the cello and I thrived on the 
~ltcitement of preparing for and playing 
Ill competitions." 


At age eighteen, entrance into college 
was the all-important competition; 
Kinhbaum wanted to study his favorite 
SUbject, English, at a good school. Ac-
cepted at both Yale and Harvard, he chose 
Yale because of the added benefits in his 
lecond area of interest, cello performance. 
In the summer of 1964 he met Parisot 
for the first time. Within a year his second 
area of interest-the cello-became 
dominant. Kirsbbaum was sure be wanted 
to be a concert cellist. 


Much of the mechanical technique 
"hich Kirsbbaum brought to the Debussy 
Sonata, performed in recital this February, 
Was already within his control when be 
lrst met Parisot. However, the difference 
between the Kirshbaums of 1964 and 1968 
lies in the change from the good technician 
to the more totally sensitive musician. 


This is, in great part, the result of what 
Parisot teaches Kirshbaum and how be 
goes about doing it. 


In the post-recital lesson on the Debussy 
Sonata, as in most of his meetings with 
Kirshbaum, Parisot discussed the produc-
tion of colors in cello playing. Parisot 
creates colors of tone and style and makes 
them clear to Kirshbaum by describing 
them in literal terms, in analogical terms, 
by referring to impressions made in out-
side concerts which they both have heard, 
by gesticulating and by playing selected 
passages for his student. "You see," he 
said, "I feel that the impressionism you 
created in the first movement of the 
Debussy Sonata should have been main-
tained more consistently throughout the 
piece. The tone should be more con-
tinuously airy, ffautando, a white sound." 


The color Parisot sensed in the Debussy 
is just one of a whole palette of pigmented 
tones which Kirshbaum has worked to 
create and control. His ability to assimilate 
new styles of playing never ceases to please 
Parisot. "I may suggest a new kind of 
color to him one day," said the teacher. 
"He will go home and practice and when 
he comes back to me in a few days the 
style will already be under his fingers." 


If Kirshbaum had mastered the color 
in which his teacher felt the Debussy 
Sonata should be set, and had actually 
used the style in his performance, why 
did he not maintain it enough to satisfy 
his mentor? Kirshbaum himself answered 
this question in his comment at the recep-
tion: "I must say that tonight I was con-
vinced with what I did in the Debussy." 


Here lies the excitement and dynamic in 
the association between Parisot and 
Kirshbaum as cellists and friends. Kirsh-
baum is very much his own man and his 
music is also very much his own. 


Parisot, furthermore, would have it no 
other way. "I will never take even one 
inch of his personality away from him. 
Let's face it, he plays so well and learns 
so quickly he could imitate everything I 
do. And what would the reviewers say. 
'We've just heard another Parisot.' But 
one Parisot being Parisot is enough. 
Kirshbaum has to be himself. And this is 
the inspiring thing about his playing-that 
already everything he does is fully thought 
out in advance and is performed with 
conviction." 


The creative association between Parisot 
and Kirshbaum is a friendship in which 
they share ideas, exchange criticism and 
catalyze their individual personalities 
as communicants in the medium of the 
cello. This is a friendship creating both a 
new, mature and professional cellist in 
Kirshbaum and a wiser, more inspired 
teacher and performer in Parisot. Both 
teacher and student are working for the 
day when Paris might hear a new inter-
pretation of the Debussy Sonata, equally 
as convincing as the one it heard in 1962. 
c


**Title: Alumni Day**
**Author: Lawrence Lasker**
**Page number(s): 9**

9l1be New Journal I March 3, 1968 
One alumnus took upon himself the 
responsibility for grabbing and refilling 
Brewster's beer glass every time the 
president emptied it. "It's your day, 
Kingman," he would beam each time. 
"I know," Brewster kept saying. It was 
Alumni Day. 
by Lawrence Lasker 
LAwrence Lasker is a student in Yale College. 
This is his second appearance in The New Journal. 

1 
Without slowing for a girl who had just stepped off the 
sidewalk, the maroon Cadillac turned the corner 
smoothly and sped up Wall Street. The girl swore as it 
passed her; then, noticing that people were watching, 
she shrugged and crossed the street, trying unsuccess-
fully to keep her hair from blowing into her eyes. Up 
Wall Street, the chauffeur was having trouble opening 
the car door and keeping his hat from blowing away. 
He succeeded, and an old man and his wife climbed out 
onto Beinecke Plaza. 

They stood there blinking in the wind while the 
chauffeur clambered around on the back seat. He 
emerged with several heavy boxes, and gave them to the 
old man, who headed slowly over to the Beinecke Li-
brary with his wife. "That's Mr. Altshul," the chauffeur 
explained. "He gives books. God, he must be Class of 
'98," he laughed. 

It was Alumni Day, Saturday, February 17, 1968, and 
everyone had come to give something, or remember 
110111ething, or just to laugh and drink and eat pretzels 
with old classmates and maybe talk about Reverend 
Coffin and the War. 

Mr. Altshul plunked the boxes down on the front 
desk. The head librarian hurried over, wearing a blazer 
-tth a big gold-and-blue Yale emblem on the pocket, 
IDd kissed Mrs. Altshul's hand. "Let's go over to the 
cornerstone-laying ceremony," he said, "or we'll miss it.'' 

A auard led the three into the vault elevator, and the 
' heavy metal doors slammed shut. The elevator took 
them downstairs, where they would make their way 
through the underground corridors to the scene of the 
ceremony across the street. 

"Books," said the guard, opening one of the boxes on 
the desk. "Beautiful French books.'' 

2 
It was just after 11 o'clock when the 12-piece Yale 
Band struck up "Bulldog·• to begin the cornerstone-
laying ceremony, the first scheduled event of the day. A 
platform was set up under an elm tree near the edge of 
a huge pit, where tractors had been busy pushing d~rt 
asound for months to clear the way for the foundations 
of the new six-story Becton Engineering and Applied 
Science Center. More than a hundred Old Blues and 
their wives had gathered to hear President Kingman 
Brewster and Henry Becton himself dedicate the new 
building. But first, with the wind blowing in his eyes, 
Reverend William Sloane Coffin stepped to the 
lllic:rophone to give the invocation. 

.. 0 God," he read from a sheet of yellow paper which 
, bad been folded inside his pocket, "0 God, when 
ICience can greatly bless or wholly destroy, grant that 
1l'hile never opposing the truth of science, we may never 
fear to so beyond it, lest at the first step we be free and 
at the second enslaved.'. His voice echoed from the 
loudspeaker onto the cement walls of Strathcona Hall, 
IDd back. "Through the work of this building, through 
Ill all. Lord, Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done. 
Amen." He sat down and then Professor Peter Wegener, 
chairman of the Department of Engineering, rose and 
called it "a great day for Yale industry.'' 

President Brewster was next. He was in top form. 
"I note in reading the history of this enterprise" 
-spreading his arms to mean, not just this enterprise 
here, bm Yale, man-"that this school was once housed 
on the fourth floor of the chapel. You can see, 
Mr. Becton. what difficulty that would arouse today." 

Everyone laughed: it was the spirit, the wind pushing 
around the leaves and the dirt, the sun reflected from the 
big brass trombone; it was even the way Coffin hunched 
!tis shoulders to the wind and laughed. By God, Yale 
could laugh at itself. 

Henry Becton rose to speak, and everyone found 
himself standing to applaud the man who had given 
$4,700,000 to make the new Engineering Center 
possible. He was brief and to the point, saying that he 
had done what he had done "through a slow brain-
washing process.'' Again the standing ovation, the 
wooden chairs scraping the gravel, and Brewster was 
laughing and shouting, "We need an engineer!" as the 
men on the platform prepared to seal the cornerstone. 

Someone put the box in, the metal box which, if opened 
several generations of Yale men later, would reveal 
several yellowed copies of the Yale Daily News, a 
couple of books about Yale, the 1968 University 
Catalogue, a program of events from Alumni Day, 1968, 
and some weathered photographs of North Sheffield 
Hall, Winchester Hall and Henry Becton, smiling into 
the camera a little self-consciously. 

But now Becton was laughing genuinely as he held 
the trowel in his hands, scooping soft cement into the 
cracks of the cornerstone and trading jokes with 
Brewster and reporters. He gave the trowel to Brewster, 
who continued sealing the plaque into place. Coffin 
leaned over the railing and stage-whispered to the crowd. 
"Kingman just made a mess!" He went to get a 
closer look, then ran back to give his report. 

"Old Silver Trowel. He just spilled it all." Only a few 
people sitting in front could hear him; the others 
wondered what Coffin was doing, running back and 
forth, wondered what Coffin was saying that caused a 
few people in front to laugh. Then Brewster gave him 
the trowel, and he took it laughing and plunged it into 
the cement, and maybe wondered what it was like to 
be a bricklayer. 

3 
President Brewster ordered another vodka martini 
and turned back to the woman at his side. She had 
been talking to him for several minutes, ever since he 
had entered the President's Room upstairs in Woolsey 
Hall. It was the noon reception for Yale Medal 
recipients. "Of course he can do the work and all, but, 
well, I'm not sure he'd be happy here. He's pretty 
dependent. I guess." Her voice trailed off as Brewster 
thanked her and turned to speak to someone else. He 
glanced around the room and smiled. Under the big 
domed ceiling an increasing number of alumni and 
wives were milling and chatting and gravitating to one 
of the bars set up at either end of the room. "Isn't it 
splendid?" one women called out to Brewster. "It sure 
is," he agreed. 

In the doorway, a small man with only a little hair 
left was puffing on a Kent and talking with a student, 
both waiting for lunch to be announced. "Well, I 
generally try to keep up with things around here," he 
said. " I don't live far away. Matter of fact, I guess the 
only time I didn·t show up here in the last fifteen years 
was two years ago when my wife was driving me home 
from the hospital.'. He eyed the drinks other people were 
holding. but didn't get one himc;elf. "My name's William 
Jordan. I'm Secretary of the Class of 1915.1 guess that 
seems prehistoric to you, huh?" The student smiled 
noncommittally. "Well, it is. Only, we manage." He 
frowned. "But this year, it looks like there'll only be 
two of us at the table.'' He took a drag from his 
cigarette. "There are a hundred and fifty of us left, but 
only two of us at the table.'' 

As a waiter walked through the President's Room, 
ringing the bell for lunch, William Jordan filed down-
stairs with the rest of the people and headed for his 
table in the immense Freshman Commons. 

4 
After attributing the great significance of the ~ay to ~he 
r.ct that this was the first cornerstone to be latd dunng 
IIIia presidency, Brewster used Yale history to draw a 
And for d~ssut, sine~ it was only fiv~ days b~jore 
lauJh. It was not the last time Saturday that he would 
WashinRton's Birthday, everyon~ had cherry pi~ with 
Ji.Llle haJckets in tht! middle. 



**Title: After the bomb in Hiroshima: a psychohistory**
**Author: Daniel Yergin**
**Page number(s): 12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Death in Life: The Survivors of Hiroshima
by Robert Jay Lifton, Random House.

The all-clear sounded at 7:30 on the
already hot morning of August 6, 1945;
and the city, tense from the air-raid warn-
ing that had been given twenty minutes
before, was now able to relax. A few
minutes after eight, three American B-29's,
initially mistaken for reconnaissance
planes, appeared over the city. Seconds
later, an atomic bomb exploded.

A brilliant flash of light cut across the
sky. A history professor, who had been
walking absent-mindedly along a dusty
road, climbed to the top of Hijiyama Hill
and looked down. He was shocked by
what he saw, more shocked than by any
of the suffering he witnessed afterward.
"Hiroshima didn't exist," he later wrote.
"That was mainly what I saw-Hiroshima
just didn't exist."

A few more days passed, another bomb
fell on Nagasaki, and the war was over.
The Americans came, they gave the
Japanese a new constitution, and the new
Japanese government provided small pen-
sions for the hibakusha, as the survivors
of the atomic blasts came to be called.
Hiroshima was rebuilt, and eventually
next to the Peace Dome, a relic of a de-
stroyed exhibition hall, a nine-story office
building rose up. Both the Americans and
Japanese provided medical treatment
for the hibakusha. The "Hiroshima
maidens" were brought to this country by
private charity to have their scars covered
over by plastic surgery, and the Ameri-
cans in particular began a systematic
study of the physical effects of the bomb.

Very quickly the world came to know
what one atomic bomb, equal to 20,000
tons of TNT, could do. With temperatures
up to 6000° C. at the target area, it could
kill somewhere between 78,000 and
200,000 people over a period of time; it
could destroy two thirds of the buildings
in a city; it could cause violent, disfiguring
burns called keloids. Its unseen radiation
could settle over the survivors, increasing
the incidence of cancer and leukemia.

But what of the effects of atomic war-
fare upon the minds of the 290,000 people
officially classed as survivors? In the
period immediately after the holocaust
John Hersey wrote Hiroshima, the story
of six survivors. Little happened after that.
The Japanese government, in allocating
pensions, paid little heed to the mental
condition of the hibakusha; the American
researchers concentrated on the physical
consequences. No one seemed to care what
these extreme events could do to the
psyche. "Do you understand?" wrote a
Nagasaki physician. "Have they investi-
gated what it does to heart and conscience
and mind of those who survive? Do they
have any knowledge of our society of
spiritual bankrupts, now striving lamely
to function as a community?" There was
no answer.

Then, in 1962, 17 years after the atomic
bomb, a tall, intense psychiatrist named
Robert Jay Lifton, who had written a
major book on Chinese brainwashing and
had just been appointed to a new research
professorship at Yale, came down by train
from Kyoto to Hiroshima. At this point
he had been in Japan for two years, inter-
viewing Japanese youth for a study relating
individual psychology to historical pro-
cesses. He had thought about the bomb
during those two years, but only occasion-
ally, and he had never before visited
Hiroshima.

Drawing him to Hiroshima, however,
was the dawning realization that though
his subjects in Tokyo and Kyoto did not
talk at any length about the atomic bomb,
still it had left a tremendous imprint on
their individual lives and their culture.

Lifton arrived in Hiroshima in early
April, bearing letters of introduction to a
cross-section of intellectuals and com-
munity leaders and planning only a short
stay. He was immediately struck by the
rebuilt city, still living with its A-bomb
memorials and memories. "The war is
over and has been over in Japan for a long
time," he said later. "It's past history and
that's the way it's treated, but that wasn't
the way it was treated in Hiroshima. There
the bomb was alive and it was with the
people, with the city."

Lifton discovered that no systematic
study had ever been done on the psycho-
logical reaction to the bomb. He went
back briefly to Kyoto, and then returned
to Hiroshima. Sometime before his second
visit to Hiroshima, Lifton had decided to
study the psychological effects of the
explosion. Contributing to the decision
were Lifton's personal and professional
interest in the Far East and Japan, his
interest in studying human reactions to
extreme historical situations and his
concern with the psychological factors in-
fluencing war and peace.

Lifton stayed in Hiroshima for six
months, interviewing two groups of sur-
vivors-33 chosen at random and 42
chosen for their leadership among
survivors. Finding them was not easy.
With his Japanese assistant he spent many
hours that hot summer, searching out
the dwellings of the hibakusha whose
names they had found in the files of the
Hiroshima University Research Institute
for Nuclear Medicine and Biology.

The interviews, usually lasting two
hours, were held in Lifton's office, or in
the home of the hibakusha if he was sick
or elderly. Though he knew some
Japanese, Lifton relied on a translator.
At least two--and sometimes many more
-sessions were held with each of the
survivors.

Lifton focused his questions on three
aspects: the survivor's memory of the
original experience and its meaning to him
17 years later, his residual concerns and
fears, and his inner struggle to master
his experience and come to terms with his
hibakusha identity.

Lifton had imagined that he would find
many horrors, but he discovered that
there is a great difference between imag-
ining and actually confronting horror in
direct human terms. Every story was
different. Lifton heard of encounters im-
mediately after the bomb---children
burned black, a child by the side of its
dead mother, a corpse with the flesh
burned off; of families severed forever
by the blast; of a daughter sent away to
the country because her dying father
smelled too much; of people afraid to
marry or, if married, afraid to have
children; of children born deformed; of
a woman breaking out in red and yel-
low and black spots a month after the
atomic bomb and then dying; of people
bearing the stigma of the vicious keloid


**Title:  President Brewster's Alumni Day Address**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

Outside, it started to snow. Big, wet, white flakes fell
silently on the few alumni who were not inside eating, ll
having drinks at Mory's with Old Blue classmates, or
maybe visiting the Yale Law Library's special exhibit,
"Remember When You Were Here."

Inside Commons, the bursary students hurried from
table to table in their white coats, clearing away the
plates before the awards and the speeches. But there
were more than a thousand people in the hall, and the
Yale Glee Club managed to get out three songs before
David Grimes, chairman of the Yale Alumni Board,
stood up and started the proceedings. After introducing
members of the Alumni Board and announcing the four
1967 Yale Medals for "outstanding service to the
University," he stood aside as President Brewster
stepped to the podium. Brewster waited for his
standing ovation to die down before he spoke. He did
not waste time getting to his first point.
"Someone has finally proved that going to college
doesn't necessarily make you richer,'' he said, his pause-
broken voice ringing in the microphone. "It's not a
guaranteed meal ticket." The laughter stopped almost
immediately. "Inherited symbols of success are up to
question. Today, it is very hard to make wealth or
power the criterion of work." The resulting attempt at
reorientation, he explained, has led to a "purpose crisis•
among students, particularly student activists. How
should the University act in the face of this crisis?
"There are those who would ask, 'Why doesn't Yale take
a stand on this, that, and the other thing?' " Brewster
spent the next fifteen minutes answering this question.
And he questioned the demands of the New Left that
Yale not allow recruiters from the Dow Chemical
Company on campus; he questioned those who would
have Yale take a stand on America's involvement in
Vietnam; and he concluded that "only by indulging in
the right to be wrong can we build on the wrongs of the
past .... We should stick to our ancient task: equipping
each generation to find their own way, even if we can't
dictate that way--even if it means getting lost."

Just the other day, he told the alumni, he started
reading a book on Yale's legendary Dink Stover to take
his mind off the terrible troubles of today's world. But
he couldn't. He found the same pattern in Stover as in so
many students today: "The self-conscious confidence
bordering on arrogance-the rejection of the whole
establishment." Many old grads nodded; they knew
what he meant. And again, Brewster got a laugh from
the past. "I found it there in Dink Stover-the rejection,
the disillusionment. You might say, to use today's
jargon, that he went to pot." Laughter, even some good-
natured hisses: yes, that was it, wasn't it? And hadn't
Kingman just assured them, really, that at least Yale
wouldn't join the ranks of the dissenters, the wave-
makers who threatened to swamp the honest, hard-
working citizens of America?

And Yale had its worries, too: Reverend Coffin's
activities weren't doing the Alumni Fund any good. "I
understand what he's doing," one of Brewster's
assistants had said a few days earlier. "I'm not at all sure
I agree with him, but I do wish he wouldn't do so much.
He's upsetting the alumni." While Brewster kept his
promise to wait and see what the courts did before
taking any action against Coffin, the letters kept pouring
in. And although the Alumni Fund kept growing year
by year, wasn't it true that the total growth had dropped
from $700,000 in 1966 to $50,000 in 1967? It was,
and to reach the disgruntled grads, the Alumni offices
had to develop "a rifle-shot rather than a shotgun
approach," in the words of managing director Ogden
Sutro. Whenever a letter of dissatisfaction was received
it would be answered immediately. If the writer was a
potentially large donor, an extra special effort would be
made to put the whole thing "in the proper perspective."

Brewster had finished speaking. Over a thousand
people stood up and those who knew it, who still
remembered it after all these years--remembered it after
the marriages, the wars and the obituaries--sang
"Bright College Years."

In after-years, should troubles rise
To cloud the blue of sunny skies,
How bright will seem through mem'ry's haze
Those happy, golden by-gone days!

And when it came time, the men held up their white
napkins, and waved them proudly in the air, and sang
" ... 'For God, for Country, and for Yale!' "


It was over, and hundreds of grads and their wives
streamed outside. No traces of snow were left; the sun
was shining in a completely cloudless blue sky. It was
almost warm as people made their way to their cars, or
to the panel discussion of student activism in Sprague
Hall, or to a walk around the campus. William Jordan,
Secretary of the Class of 1915, was grinning from ear
to ear as he walked outside. He held up three fingers.
Three people had showed up at his table. He was very
happy.


Nothing unexpected happened at the discussion of
student activism in Sprague. Kingman Brewster was
moderator. The panelists--Sanford Elberg, dean of the
Graduate School at UC Berkeley; John Kneller, dean of
the College of Arts at Oberlin; former News chairman
Strobe Talbott; and Assistant Dean John Wilkinson-
pretty much agreed in their prepared remarks that
student activists were responsible citizens after all.

The questions that followed from the audience were
on the whole more interesting than the answers, which
tended to be vague or inconclusive, and the audience
reaction to the questions was the most interesting of all.
Questions like "Well, how would you quell student
demonstrations without using hoses and tear gas?" or
"Okay, Strobe, could you tell us how you would get us
out of Vietnam?" or "Isn't it true that demonstrations
force opinions on people, rather than using peaceful
means, where opinions have to be accepted?" received
vigorous applause from the audience. But "Well, how
do you test a law without breaking it and thereby render-
ing yourself ineffective to fight it?" did not.

Moderator Brewster summed it all up at the end with
a personal observation: "As one whose patience is
sorely tried by some forms of civil disobedience, and
whose legal sense is outraged by it, I still am grateful
that dissent exists."

It was getting dark when the doors of Commons were
opened for a reception of the Alumni Board and the
Engineering Association. It was the last official function
of the day, and everyone came to have a good time and
soak up liquor and, if possible, introduce the missus to
President Brewster.

One alumnus took upon himself the responsibility
for grabbing and refilling Brewster's beer glass every
time the president emptied it. "It's your day, Kingman,"
he would beam each time. "I know," Brewster kept
saying. Once he laughed, "Well, I'm glad it's my day,
and not Senator Dodd's day."

After speaking to him briefly, two alumni and their
wives told Brewster how nice it had been talking to him
and then headed for the pretzel and potato-chip table.
"Isn't he nice?" one of the men asked.
"Yes, and so perceptive," his wife agreed and smiled
at the other woman. "Now where's Coffin?" Since the
reverend's appearance at the cornerstone ceremony, no
one had seen him.
"He had to go somewhere," her husband explained.
"Oh, what a shame." She sipped her bourbon.
"Personally," she confided to the other woman, "I think
he's great, but he" -nodding at her husband-"goes
along with Charlie O'Hearn."

The previous Monday night, Charles O'Hearn,
Assistant to the president, had addressed a large
gathering at the Football Banquet. Reverend Coffin
had attended the banquet, but by the time O'Hearn rose
to speak Coffin had already left for a teach-in on draft
resistance. "I know you all agree with me," he had said,
"that you'd much rather read about Yale on the sports
page, with a winning football team, than on the front
page, criticizing the Vietnam war or the draft." O'Hearn
had received an enthusiastic ovation.

President Brewster was sipping beer and talking to a
student who was telling him about a letter he had
recently received from his father. His father, who had
graduated from Yale thirty-five years before, had
written, "Trying to impose one's views on others by
causing mass disobedience is the opposite of the
democratic system .... I feel this so strongly that I do
not propose to continue my support of Yale after my
present pledge is completed, nor would I have anything
to do with anyone who disobeyed the draft law." The
student asked Brewster what he thought about alumni
like his father.
"There are a lot of them," Brewster answered. "But
obviously we can't put this place up for auction. We
can't let an alumnus with a lot of money blackmail us
into accepting his views." He took a sip of beer. "A lot
of people agree with Bill Coffin, and a lot of people
disagree with me for not firing him. But the final
decision is up to the trustees, not the alumni."

He raised his eyes from his beer. People around him
had been leaving, and now only a few grads were left
in Commons. Even these were emptying their drinks
and collecting their wives. They would head to dinner
and then perhaps to the hockey game or the basketball
game, and then they would go home.

It had been dark for half an hour, but the flag
outside Commons was still flapping in the wind. The
night was cold. A guard untied the rope at the base of the
flagpole, blowing on his palms to keep warm.

An alumnus, standing in the doorway, called out to
the guard, "It's been dark for a while, you know."
"I know. I'm sorry, I've been very busy. Alumni Day
and all." He lowered the flag slowly and tucked it under
his arm.



**Death in Life: Survivors of Hiroshima**
**Author: Robert Jay Lifton**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
g 
), 
j 
~d 
IJ 
' 
s 
r 
tS IThe New Joumall March 3, 1968 
-..s through life, or the psychological 
llipna of being an outcast; of people 
llaanted in hundreds of ways by that 
lia8le experience of the bomb. 
Lifton was shocked and profoundly 
lllaken by what be heard, but he forced 
himself to concentrate on distinct patterns 
IIIII in time he began to notice that a 
process of distancing-what he calls 
1fYChic numbing-set in within himself. 
In the fall of 1962, he went back to 
Tokyo to research some special Hiroshima 
problems, and then returned to the United 
Slates. He employed a Japanese assistant 
10 continue doing research for him while 
lie himself worked in this country on the 
Hiroshima manuscript and a related manu-
aipt on death symbolism and the impact 
tl nuclear weapons. He finished the 
Hiroshima work toward the end of 1966. 
Death in Life: The Survivors of Hiro-
liima was published earlier this month by 
lmdom House. It is a moving and brilliant 
.-lysis of human reaction to a cataclysm; 
il is also a pioneering effort in what is 
coming to be called psychohistory. 

2 
PJom the mass of information he col-
lected in interviews, Lifton identified five 
..m traits in the Hiroshima survivor's 
peychology. 
The first was the death imprint. This 
..Wted from the individual's first shatter-
ina and then recurring contact with death, 
iacluding fears of radiation effects. T he 
sarvivor tended to regard himself as weak 
llld victimized, and was looked on as an 
outcast by other Japanese. Many survivors 
WOUnd up with an absolute sense of 
delolation and despair. Shortly after the 
llcmb, an abandoned mother heard a 
IIIDor that no trees would grow in 
Hiroshima for seventy years; then her 
lilt possessions were stolen from the rail-
way c:ar in which she was living. She told 
Uftoo of her reaction: "But my feeling 
..., there was no place to go ... so if I 
were to die, it was all right, I would die 
llere where the bomb fell .... A feeling 
tl DOt caring-not a feeling based on 
llderstanding but just on not caring .... " 
The survivors also experienced death 
lfllh. An elderly lady, carried to safety 
alta the blast in a wheelbarrow, told 
Uftoo: "I heard many voices calling for 
llelp, voices calling for their fathers, voices 
of women and children .... I felt it was 
a wrong thing not to help them, but we 
were so much occupied by running away 
Garlelves that we left them .... Even now 
htill hear their voices." The unspoken 
lilt-accusation was that her life was saved 
• the expense of others. 

Another protective mechanism, that of 
111chic closing-off or psychic numbing, 
11ft the survivors unable to feel emotions. 
AJapanese army officer who directed mass 
Cftlnations said: "After a while [the 
'*Jiles] became just like objects or goods 
-handled in a very business-like way. 
·· ·We had no emotions. Because of the 
llccession of experiences I bad been 
!~~rough, I was temporarily without 
leetinl." 

Almost all the survivors were wary of 
re..terfeit nurturance; they felt the need 
tf lpecial attention, yet at the same time 
'-J resented and suspected it. Said a 
~ 
scarred hospital attendant: "I 
~'t like people to use that word 
~auh~] ... to refer to u~ as. at?mic 
maadens is a way of dascrUDJna-
... · . . "Yet she also said: "We under-
"'- such a terrible ordeal : .. we experi-
enced a state between death and life ... 
so I wish others to have a more sym-
pathetic understanding of us." 

Lifton found that the survivors resented 
Americans in direct proportion to the 
extent that the bomb bad marred their 
lives. In some cases, resentment and affec-
tion existed together because of the 
American Occupation and events after-
ward. 

The final psychological trait was 
formulation. The survivor tried to create 
a new life; he again sought a sense of 
development and significance in his life. 
But finding this sense proved extremely 
difficult. A feeling of special mission or 
some form of resignation seemed to be the 
only means. 

Lifton examined artistic creation, which 
is one kind of formulation. He found most 
of the literature and art relating to the 
bomb to be unsuccessful because the artist 
was unable to master such a catastrophic 
experience . 

Lifton found close parallels to the 
reactions of Hiroshima survivors in the 
reactions of concentration camp survivors. 
He went on to conclude that we are all 
survivors of both those massive holocausts 
and, in a sense, of imagined future 
holocausts. While the central psychological 
problem in Freud's day was sexuality, 
the problem today, according to Lifton, 
is "unlimited technological violence and 
absurd death." 

Lifton was dealing with an historical 
problem in his book, but he approached 
it with the insights of a psychoanalytic 
perspective. His basic aim was to 
illuminate the historical subject matter 
in terms of human psychology. This is 
psychohistory, and it is Lifton's primary 
intellectual concern. He doesn't believe it is 
possible to understand large human events 
without understanding psychological 
forces. In his own life, Lifton has found 
himself in various situations in which 
both dimensions were extremely impor-
tant, and it is from such a perspective 
that he carries on his work. 

3 
Robert Jay Lifton grew up in New 
York City in a family that stimulated 
him to make his first contact with 
psychological and political matters at an 
early age. H is father bad grown up on 
the lower East Side and had hoped for 
a medical career but, lacking funds, had 
turned instead to business. He always 
took pride, however, in having read widely 
in the major thinkers as a very young 
man, and be always cared deeply about 
the underdog; certainly at least part of 
Lifton's- impulse to examine major 
historical problems arises from his 
father's influence. 

In high school, Lifton was interested 
in history: at Cornell, which he entered 
at 16, he became a pre-med student. 
He started New York Medical College at 
the age of 18. By the second year he 
wanted to be a psychiatrist. He bas never 
regretted his medical background; 
internship, in particular, offered him a 
special kind of human confrontation at 
the border of life and death. Lifton, 
immersing himself in his psychiatric 
studies in the immediate post-war years. 
tended to annoy teachers by insistent 
questioning, and even then to show himself 
as something of a loner. 

Then, be says, "Lots of things happened 
strangely." He enlisted in the Air Force 
in 195 1 and was stationed with a group 
A Yale Institution for U pperdassmen 


--- Page 14 ---

141 The New Journal I March 3, 1968 
of psychiatrists at Westover Field when 
order came to send of their number 
overseas. The head psychiatrist decided 
that the unmarried man should go, and 
that was Lifton. He asked to be sent to 
Paris, but was assigned intially to Japan. 
By this time he had married, and his 
wife, who had been working in television, 
arranged for press credentials and 
accompanied him. 

After a year in Japan, Lifton was sent to 
Korea, where he was the only Air Force 
psychiatrist in the country. He flew on a 
circuit from base to base, trying to deal 
with a large number of psychiatric 
problems. He attempted to find a way for 
the personnel to continue to function in 
the combat area; if there was no way, he 
arranged for their return to Japan. 

After five and a half months on the 
circuit, he was ordered back to Japan; 
he- returned to Korea for Operation Big 
Switch, the prisoner exchange in 1953. 
His wife accompanied him as a correspon-
dent. He had been briefed in advance 
to expect some "ideological influence" 
(brainwashing) on the returning Gl's; 
but interviewing and conducting group 
therapy sessions with them, Lifton 
found something puzzling and disturbing 
in the confused state of many of the 
returned prisoners. He saw this condition 
as important both clinicaly and as 
part of a larger historical problem. 

Finally discharged in Japan, Lifton 
and his wife started on a round-the-
world trip. Hong Kong, their second 
stop, seemed to the Liftons mysterious 
and unreal, with an extraordinary air of 
intrigue and ferment. Lifton talked 
with many people and began to hear 
dramatic stories from Chinese and 
Westerners who had been imprisoned 
in Red China. The problem of thought 
reform-brainwashing-began to absorb 
him, especially the puzzling state of the 
former prisoners-of-war. With no 
clearcut notion of establishing a new 
direction of research, with only the 
knowledge that the work would be very 
important, Lifton arranged to study the 
former prisoners in Hong Kong. Of these 
two years, Lifton says with a smile, 
" It was the voyage of the Beagle for 
me, my turning point." 

As Lifton talks about that period in 
Hong Kong, it takes on the quality of 
a single memory held intact. The draining 
emotional confrontation with the 
former prisoners, the frenetic search 
for information on Chinese history 
and culture, the life in Hong Kong itself-
all are part of one experience. He 
would leave his apartment in the morning 
and drive to an outlying section for an 
intense two-hour interview with a 
just-released missionary, later drive to 
the beach and change for a swim, then 
spend the afternoon talking with experts 
and the evening studying in his apartment. 

Lifton and his wife left Hong Kong 
in 1955. During the next four years of 
teaching and research, in Washington, 
D.C., and then at Harvard, he was 
writing his first book, Thought R eform 
and the Psychology of Tota/ism: A 
Study of Brainwashing in China. He 
defined totalism as "a tendency toward 
ali-or-nothing emotional alignments." 
From the case histories of 25 Westerners 
and 15 Chinese, he abstracted the major 
totalist devices used to "re-educate" 
(make over in the communist image) the 
former prisoners. He also described how 
"thought reform," if successful, closes 
the subject off and reinforces totalist 
inclinations within him. He made it clear 
fhat total ism or elements of totalism are 
not the province solely of communism, 
but appear also in our own society. 

Lifton was also concerned with a more 
general problem, the human capacity 
for change. He argued that a person 
is in process, that change-moderate, 
not extreme-is vital. 

In writing this book Lifton confronted 
a large number of problems-an alien 
culture, the intellectual attitude be 
would take toward reform, his own 
radical liberal ideological position, and 
the choice of a particular psychoanalytical 
tradition to follow. 

<;>n returning from Hong Kong in 
1956; Lifton joined the Washington 
School of Psychiatry, a group influenced 
by the American psychoanalyst Harry 
Stack SuiJivan, who had made a special 
contribution to the techniques of the 
psychiatric interview. While in Washing· 
ton, Lifton read an article on ego 
identity by the psychoanalyst Erik 
Erikson. He realized that Erikson was 
concerned, in a theoretical way, with the 
same problems of personality change 
that he was confronting in the "re-edu· 
cated" former prisoners. Lifton was suf-
ficiently excited to ask Frederick Redlich 
(now dean of the Yale Medical School), 
whom Lifton had met in Korea, to 
arrange an introduction. 

Lifton went to see Erikson at the 
Austin Riggs Clinic in Stockbridge, 
Massachusetts. Erikson was intrigued by 
thought reform, and he felt it tied into 
Young Man Luther, the book on which 
he was then working. That book, which 
appeared in 1958, is subtitled "a study 
in psychoanalysis," and it is the work 
that effectively introduced psychoanalytic 
methods into the study of history. 

Since the death of Freud, there had 
been a shift among some psychoanalysts 
from exclusive preoccupation with the 
id and the domain of the unconscious 
to a corresponding interest in the ego, 
the conscious self. Since ego patterns 
persist into adulthood and are available 
in historical data, this approach offered 
a way to deal with an individual in his 
social and hi~torical environment. This 
sort of concern with identity had a 
special impact on Lifton, and Erikson·s 
notion of the phases of development 
and the life cycle related particularly to 
Lifton's concern with character change. 

Lifton moved to Harvard in 1957. 
There he studied China and the Orient 
under John Fairbank and Benjamin 
·Schwartz, and was influenced by sociolo-
gist David Riesman. Another influence. 
though less direct, was that of Albert 
Camus. Lifton felt that Camus was strUt 
gling on a philosophical level with the satot 
problem at human possibilities and 
change that he himself was studying on 
a psychological level. 

While in Boston, Lifton underwent 
personal psychoanalysis as part of his 
training to be a psychoanalyst. He 
completed the analysis, but not the 
training, because he felt that it wasn't . 
relevant to his work, and he held certalll. 
reservations about the way psychoanal)~ 
is utilized and taught. 

The historical profession showed 
its first awareness of the contributions 
available from an understanding of 
psychology in 1957. In that year, diplo-
matic historian William Langer used t1Je 
occasion of his president's address to tbC 
American Historical Association to saY 


--- Page 15 ---

IS 1 The New Journal I March 3, 1968 
that, were he beginning his career anew, 
ar 
be would pay considerable attention 
to psychology, "to the urgently needed 
deepening of our historical understanding 
tbrough exploitation of the concepts and 
findings of modern psychology." 

This decade has seen a few more books 
and several conferences on psychohistory. 
Perhaps the most important single step 
was taken by Lifton and Erikson in 1966, 
d 
when they decided to form what is now 
called The Group for the Study of Psy-
chohistorical Process. It is an informal 
group that meets in a cottage next to 
Iifton's summer home in Wellfleet, 
ical 
Massachusetts. It met for seven days in 
1966 and five days in 1967. Its members 
include Erikson, Lifton, psychologist 
Kenneth Keniston and historian Lawrence 
~ Chisolm (both from Yale), psychiatrist 
Robert Coles, psychologist Frederick 
Wyatt, sociologist Philip Rieff, historians 
Bruce Mazlish and Frank Manuel, politi-
cal scientists Suzanne and Lloyd Rudolph 
and critic Steven Marcus. 

Works in progress are presented and 
discussed, and ideas are tested. Lifton 
1e 
presented sections of the Hiroshima manu-
ICript, and Erikson sections of the biog-
raphy of Gandhi he is now writing. 

Lifton says, "These meetings are a most 
icb 
extraordinary experience intellectually. 
tic 
You're throwing your work out to really 
lifted people who immerse themselves in 
il and respond with great sensitivity." 

1n addition to the survivor, Lifton has 
recently identified another type of man 
which he thinks is a particular product of 
this historical era. This type is protean 
man-that is, a man subject to several 
major changes in his life patterns and 
ideology. Protean man is part of Lifton's 
focus on the changing personality that 
began with his brainwashing study and 
included the study he was doing on 
Japanese youth prior to the Hiroshima 
work. Lifton thinks universal psychologi-
cal tendencies, the cultural past and the 
current historical trends interact to pro-
duce human behavior. He thinks that the 
third factor is responsible for protean 
man, and he points to two reasons: the 
historical and psychological dislocations 
associated with rapid technological change, 
and the overwhelming output of mass 
media. 

4 
Lifton looks forward to "psychohistori-
cal breakthroughs." These breakthroughs 
will represent the coming together of the 
individual and history, and will produce 
a new dimension of psychic experience. 
The aim, finally, is to find a model of man 
within history. 

Lifton acknowledges that major difficul-
ties lie in the way of these breakthroughs: 
the psychoanalyst tends to extract the 
psychological self from the historical 
process, while historians look toward a 
sequential model of group behavior that 
ignores individual psychology. But Lifton 
believes that the gaps can be bridged, and 
le 
he is willing to predict the characteristics 
of psychohistory: 

I A model of time expanded to com-
bine and give subtle expression to 
man's individual and collective feel-
ings toward pis past and future. 

2 A genuine dialectic between the in-
dividual man and his historical 
process. 

3 An idea of the past built upon a 
three-way interplay between the in-
dividual psychology, the cultural past 
and the existing historical trends. 

4 A dialectic between the reality of 
external events and man's need to 
see these events through some form 
of symbolic re-creation (formula-
tion). 

5 A stress on man's innate need for ex-
ploration and change, at the same 
time recognizing the counter-trend 
toward stability and stillness. 

Now completing a manuscript on the 
general symbols of life and death that is 
related to the Hiroshima book, Lifton says, 
"I'm strongly convinced that I'm moving 
in a very important direction, but I do 
have lots of doubts, including many about 
.my own capacity to be equal to the prob-
lems involved." 

There is no question that the problems 
of psychohistory are large, but Lifton has 
already done much to meet them. His own 
work has proved that the psychoanalytic 
perspective can greatly enrich and enlarge 
our understanding of both individual be-
havior and large historical events. 


**Starting March 7**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Starting March 7 
Our largest Pre-Equinox 
Sale ever! 
Savings from 20 to 
60 per cent on hundreds 
of titles: best sellers, 
art, photography and 
many other books never 
before on sale. 
111111111 
Cr&D 
Yale Film Society


**Yale Film Society**

Friday, March 1 
Trumbull College 
Dramat 
That last brought 
you the Fantasticks 
presents 
Andorra 
by Max Frisch 
March 7to 9 
8:15PM 
Trumbull 
Dining Hall 
CLEO FROM FIVE TO SEVEN {1962) 
Agnes Varda's fascinating lyric about 
a young girl's two hours in Paris 
Saturday, March 2 
THE TRIAL OF JOAN OF ARC {1962) 
Robert Bresson's truly gripping 
treatment of the famous trial 
TIHIE FRENCIHI 
NEW WAVE 
PART II 
Friday, March 8 
CHRONICLE OF A SUMMER {1961) 
The official masterpiece of the cinema-
verite movement, Jean Rouch's film re-
volves about a single question: "Are you 
happy?" 
Saturday, March 9 
EYES WITHOUT A FACE (1959) 
Georges Franju's perverse, Gothic horror 
Coming Wednesday, March 13 
A series of films by Josef von Sternberg


**Letters To the Editors:**
**Author: Fred M. Reames, Frank Nestor**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

Letters 
To the Editors: 
The article "Our Air War, by Robert 
Crichton" (February 4), reprinted from 
the N ew Y ork Review of Books, discusses 
the U.S. Air Force techniques in Vietnam, 
and damns those techniques in no uncer-
tain terms. However, one wonders why, 
as the article states, the book "Air War: 
Vietnam was published in a silence"? Is 
it possibly because the book itself is not 
nearly as sensational as the article in the 
New York Review? This latter question 
becomes more than a mere possibility 
when one realizes that the editorial policy 
of the New York Review is only slightly 
to the right of Ramparts'. I doubt, there-
fore, whether any of the seventeen Yale 
staff members who found the article 
"exceptionally revealing" has actually 
read the book; and I suggest that they have 
displayed a receptiveness to opinions, 
coinciding with their own, rather than 
to facts. 
· 
Fred M. Reames 

Milton Shaw's letter (New Journal, 
February 18, 1968) attacking those who 
oppose the Vietnam war pretends to be 
that of a rational human being. At first, I 
thought it was a heavy-handed satire. 
Upon reflection, I have concluded that 
Mr. Shaw's heavy hand is quicker than 
his gimlet eye. The blindness which results 
and which he attributes to others qualifies 
him as an apologist of the Administra-
tion's Vietnam war policy. It is he who 
misses the point. True, all war is essentially 
immoral, but does it then follow that the 
Vietnam war deserves support? Murders 
are crimes. Although they are essentially 
immoral, would Apologist Shaw consent to 
commit one? T he point is that the United 
States appears in the guise of aggressor, 
waging a war in defiance of the norms of 
international political morality and of its 
own self-professed ideals. The point is 
that the Administration indulges in dis-
tortion of history and fact, mystification 
and statistical legerdemain in order to 
propagandize a policy which it cannot 
truthfully justify. The point is that men 
should not for such a policy be placed in a 
position where the "beat of battle" will 
lead them to commit atrocities. 

In limiting himself to _a consideration 
of battlefield atrocities, Apologist Shaw 
has once. again missed the point. The point 
is that the United States kills Vietnamese 
for purposes toward which most Viet-
namese are either hostile or indifferent. 
The point is that the United States com-
mits atrocities not in the heat of battle 
but with cold calculation. It creates 
refugees through massive bombardment 
of civilian centers and indiscriminate 
artillery fire coupled with equally wanton 
air strikes in the countryside. It poisons 
the environment through chemical de-
foliation and crop destruction. It condones 
the treatment which the ARVN metes out 
to Vietnamese prisoners. The point is 
that an American, sitting in the hermetic 
cockpit of an F-1 00 and flying in an un-
contested sky, can hardly be said to act 
in "the heat of battle" as he rakes a row of 
Vietnamese huts with 20 mm. cannon fire. 
The point is that the victory which the 
United States seeks in this "people's war" 
can only be attained by pursuit of a policy 
the very essence of which is mounting 
atrocity. 

Apologist Shaw is himself dimly aware 
of this. Rational human being that he is, 
he cannot forego self-contradiction. 
Atrocities, he says, are commited by in-
dividuals in "the beat of battle." He de-
plores this. What is his remedy for the only 
evil he perceives? Opponents of the war 
should enlist in the service in order to 
bring about "a minor revolution in policy." 
How can "a minor revolution in policy" 
put a stop to the atrocities which accord-
ing to Apologist Shaw are inevitably 
commited by soldiers in battle? After all, 
this war, like all wars--once again accord· 
ing to Apologist Shaw-is essentially 
immoral. New sets of participants and 
minor revolutions in policy cannot alter 
the facts of war and thereby put an end 
to the atrocities which he sanctimoniously 
deplores. 

The only parallel which I can find for 
Apologist Shaw's naivete is his own 
ignorance. Does he really think that an 
officer ordered to level a district capital 
"in order to save it," will refuse to obey? 
I suspect that Apologist Shaw would have 
opponents of the war court-martialed and 
executed for refusing to obey orders rather 
than have them go to prison for resisting 
the draft. 

Apologist Shaw yearns for facts, proof 
and special knowledge. Can he array all 
this in support of his contentions that 
North Vietnamese Communism threatens 
"the American way of life," that China 
and North Vietnam operate hand in 
glove, that certain Communist govern· 
ments can be termed mature and others 
"immature"? Should Apologist Shaw care 
to inform himself about the Vietnam war, 
there are many books which he might 
find instructive. These include Bernard 
Fall's The Two Vietnams and Vietnam 
Witness, Robert Shaplen's The Lost 
Revolution, Jean Lacouture's Vietnam: 
Between Two Truces, George Kahin and 
John Lewis's The United States in Viet· 
nam, and Frank Harvey's Air War: 
Vietnam. Should books place too great a 
strain on Apologist Shaw's attention span, 
he might devote himself to an intelligent 
reading of the New York Times and the 
foreign press. Or is that contrary to the 
"American way of life"? 

Frank Nestor 
Yale Law School




This is an angry reply to the complimen· 
tary articles on Joseph Heller you have 
printed. If The New Journal is to be a 
medium of truth rather than of star-struck 
opinion (as have been the references to 
Heller at the Yale Drama School), the 
Yale community should be made aware of 
certain facts upon which opinion may be 
more firmly grounded. 

Joseph Heller's We Bombed in New. 
Haven was clearly not a welcome step Ill 
any direction at the Yale Repertory 
Theatre. H eller was committed neither to 
drama nor to the kind of cooperative pro-
duction process the Drama School and 
Repertory Company claim to be gropin& 
towards. Heller approached his play first 
as a playful diversion from the novel 
he is writing, and second as literature. 
Never did he accept the collaborative 
experience of theatre, as is evidenced.bY 
his adamant refusal to revise or rewn te 
the flawed sections of his opus. His 
attitude was: "I am J oseph H eller. I have 
written a play. It is a finished product. 
Here, do it." Great playwrights (Shake-
speare, Marlowe, Moliere, etc.) have 


**The Smith College Symposium on Slavery**
**Author: Jonathan Aaron**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
191 The New Journal I March 3, 1968 
The symposium's final address was 
given by David Brion Davis, who holds, 
as some people noted with amusement, 
The Ernest White Professorship of History 
at Cornell. His talk was concerned principally with abolitionist attitudes towards 
slavery, and he described in detail what 
many Northerners in the first half of the 
Nineteenth century believed to be a 
"Slave Power Conspiracy." Davis quoted 
Theodore Parker's likening the paranoid 
fear of slavepower to the Jesuitical terror 
of the anti-Christ, a concept rampant in 
Europe for three hundred years after 
the Reformation. 

So ended the Smith College Symposium 
on slavery. Many afterwards were jubilant 
about its liveliness, its variety, and its 
timeliness. Others were as sympathetic to 
what had been attempted, but less satisfied 
with what had taken place. They felt that 
perhaps it had been a case of too many 
celebrities in too short a time. At moments, 
professional competition seemed to get in 
the way of the panelists' pursuing the 
clarification of common problems, and in 
a couple of instances the bickering of the 
panelists became uncomfortably personal. 
They, along with the militants in the 
audience, tended to corroborate a point 
Lionel Trilling made a long time ago, 
that "our culture peculiarly honors the 
art of blaming." 

However, forbearance, good word 
though it is, is not something you can 
expect to find when a lot of intelligent men 
and women get together to discuss a difficult 
subject, particularly if the subject 
is as hydra-headed as American Negro 
Slavery. Certainly a great many people 
were stimulated, shaken, and enlightened 
by what they saw and heard at the sym-
posium, and that is no mean accomplishment. 

It may have been true, as an onlooker 
not unkindly remarked, that "there's 
less here than meets the eye." But all in 
all, "less" was more than many had experienced in quite a while.


**Mr. Mayor**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

Mr. Mayor 
Jonathan Aaron 
Graduate student, English 
Watching John V. Lindsay talk to Thomas 
P. F. Hoving on the Mayor's Sunday conversation show, one realized that Hoving 
was the original Lindsay man: discreet 
club ties on those shirts that have handmade buttonholes, fifteen inches of un-
wrinkled sock encasing the Anglo-Saxon 
calf. And that man had been a commissioner in city government. Sure, he was 
not more than socks and shirts and ties-
he gave us kite-flying in the Sheep Meadow 
and bicycles on Sunday and the poised 
fullness of touch that puts a man in 
"Talk of the Town" one week and inspires 
a lavishly whimsical cartoon the next. 

On Sunday the striking thing was not the 
ideas, but the way he made them dance 
lightly across the table. Doubtless he 
knew that comment, honed and un-
adorned, would be bad form amid a studio 
done up in Public Relation Man's Plastic 
smoothly polished version of Modern 
Art. 

But, in the studio confusion of 
swinging cameras and hissing klieg lights, 
his manner was the striking thing: the almost lyric indifference to the staged situation 
he was in. The PR men circulated 
through the audience giving skittish house-
wives from Queens punchy questions for 
John Lindsay and his guest, and proffering, 
yet again, one of their number decked out 
in beard and bells who wanted to know 
what the Mayor was doing for the sad lost 
girls from Great Neck searching for 
flowers in the streets of New York. A regular balanced ticket. All the while Hoving 
ticked off on his long fingers the plans 
for the Temple of Dendur and the dialec-
tical advantages of hanging the F-111 
opposite the Poussin. It was a clear profile 
of style: the conquering indifference to 
indifference. 

He had finished the Temple of Dendur 
and the Mayor caught the falling syllable 
of conclusion, swung his attention from a 
card-waving aide and, with hardly a pause, 
asked about the exhibition on Harlem 
and the relation of the Museum to the 
community. The Director replied gracefully 
and persuasively. With a bright smile 
and a quick sense of the hour, the Mayor 
asked about the program in Brooklyn. 

A structured reply. The Mayor moved 
smartly to audience participation. (Apparently not much had been done for 
Queens or Staten Island and no one was 
getting up an exhibit on the Catholic 
contribution to the city.) 

Lindsay's technique was more in the 
dramatic than the lyric mode and his role 
the more difficult one. Of course, on your 
screens at home it was as taut and grace-
ful as the Brooklyn Bridge. But out there 
where it was at, the temporary crowd were 
all shifting on their folding chairs, straining 
to piece together the flow of talk as 
the cameras swung and bobbed and 
bothered us and made a work of art and 
artifice. Lindsay was with us in it, snatch-
ing a phrase here and there to keep the 
Hoving doll moving forward and keeping 
an eye cocked for the elusive aide. 

It really wasn't easy. After all, as host and 
speaker he had to gather us all into the 
occasion, playing both audience and participant, the listening citizen as well as the 
upright Mayor and the warm associate. 

It all needed a lot of props-the PR men 
in the audience searching out the Negro 
to put a question about Harlem and the 
aides with their cue cards and funny earphones and the make-up and the water 
glasses tinted yellow and the cordial pre-
show greeting to the eager admirers in the 
studio. We all assisted with timed clapping 
and nervous smiles as the eye of history 
swept us into our final perspectives and 
all our hundred mothers in the Greater 
Metropolitan Region caught a glimpse 
of our untidy hair and fluttering hands and 
flimsy chairs. It was exciting. He was our 
Mayor and he'd stood up to the garbage 
men and we were proud-and we were 
on television. And, Jesus, when you're on 
television you forget to do your thing 
and you just hope your voice won't break 
when you get to ask your question. And, 
Jesus, why doesn't he stop rattling on about 
Brooklyn-we all want to get in on this 
thing-and then about taking the riches of 
the Museum to every borough and the 
gleam of the untraveled world .... 

"Tom, I think we should cut it off here. 
I'm sure the audience would like to put a 
few questions to you. Yes, miss." 

"Mr. Hoving, why did you leave public 
service just at the time ... " 

Lindsay catches the cue and trades a 
few jabbing quips about the job at the 
Met being public service and goes through 
the bit about civilization in the city. And 
yes, yes, you're in on it; you're there, and 
the minute it's over you dash out of the 
studio to phone all your friends to watch. 
There it is on the videotapes of posterity 
-the urban and the urbane and being 
close to the Mayor and standing up to the 
garbage men and New York and-geez, 
it was grand.



Classifieds 
20¢ per word 
Angus Macbeth 
Yale Law School 
Ads may be mailed or telephoned to: 
William M. Burstein 
544 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
776-2551 
Monday-Thursday 7-8 p.m. 
The New Journal will accept for publication 
in its next issue one free classified ad from 
any member of the Yale community. Only ads 
accompanied by sender's name, address 
and Yale affiliation will be considered. 
Editing privileges reserved. Ads must be 
received no later than March 6. 
The New Journal wishes to apologize to the 
U.S. Army Recruiting Station, 32 Elm Street, 
for inadvertently printing its telephone 
number in a classified ad published in the 
last issue. Readers wishing to call Dial-A-
Prayer should telephone 776-3557. 
. SPECIAL INTEREST 
Send stamped self-addressed envelope to 
609 Yale Station for articles of special 
interest. (You must be over 21.) 
RAPPACCINI 
Feature film by Robert Edelstein casting for 
female lead, age 16-23-must be spectacular-
ly beautiful, childlike, sad, fascinating. 
Shooting will be on weekends in New York 
City. Call 776-7779 or 777-0423 before 
March 15. 
CALISTHENICS 
1968 Yale spring program. "Mens sana in 
corpore sano." First meeting Monday, 
March 4. Please be at the New Haven Green 
flagpole by 6:30 A.M. Everyone welcome 
-gym suits preferred. "Let's go!" 
SQUASH 
Inept squash opponent desired. Send credentials 
to 92 Yale Station. Discreet. 
DAMSELS 
Love is where it's at, but where is "at"? 
We are 5 attractive, well-educated damsels 
distressed by meaningless mixers and 
machine made matches, who desire to meet 
men. "Man" defined: 23-34 1/2 years old, 
similarly attractive intelligent and well 
educated. If interested, please reply: 
"Girls" c/ o The New Journal, 3432 Yale 
Station. 
GRASS 
Grow your own-indoors! For free, 
generous-sized sample packet of guaranteed-
to-sprout seeds, send a stamped, self-
addressed envelope and 25¢ to 544 Yale 
LOST 
Gloves. Bought at Co-op Post-Christmas 
Sale. No identifying marks or blemishes. 
Can't even remember the color. c/ o Gloves, 
1860 Yale Station. 
MGB 
Must sell at any price, 1965 model. 
Black/ black, wire wheels, radio, new tires, 
new top, only 22,000 miles. Call 865-8793 
between 10 P.M. and 10 A.M. 
BEEFEATER 
Common face, dullard, buffoon. beefeater 
and hartebeest. Eleven friends. 
Going to Europe? 
.... then, go Eli! 
Eli International 
Seven Pan American 
or Air France jet flights: 
June 3 to September 3 
June 24 to August 27 
July 4 to August 12 
June 11 to September 2 
August 3 to September 2 
July 3 to July 27 
June 11 to July 8 
$275 
$255 
We have an expanded market, 
and space is limited, so make 
your reservations now. 
Office hours: 1 to 5:30, Monday 
through Friday 
Call:776-8522 
Write: 2182 Yale Station 
Eli International, 211 Park Street 
Sign up now! 

