Publication date: February 22, 1970
Volume: three
Issue number: eight

**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Herman Hong, Paul Goldberger
- Managing Editor: Dan Mcintyre
- Executive Editor: Stephen Thomas
- Business Manager: William Palmer
- Designer: Nicki Kalish
- Copy Editors: Richard Caples, Stuart Klawans
- Production Manager: Jack Friedman
- Advertising Manager: Charles H. S. Chapman
- Assistant Editors: Bryan Di Salvatore, George Kannar, Edward Landler, David Meter, Sam Miller
- Circulation Managers: John Callaway, Brant Switzler
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, David Freeman, Mopsy Strange Kennedy, Lawrence Lasker, Jonathan Lear, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo, Walter Wagoner
- Staff: Richard Conniff, W. Curtis Francis, Patrick Lydon, Gus Oliver, Robert Parsons, Manuel Perez


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- The dilemma of the radical professor - Alan Trachtenberg
- Roller Derby in New Haven - Bryan Di Salvatore
- Love Story: a review - Paul Goldberger
- The book closes on the MAT - Daniel Mcintyre


**Title: Comment**
**Author:  Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 2**

Comment: OCD goes to court, as does the 
peace movement, and even the Panthers, 
but will the Pro Musica stay free? 


**Title: Yale Daily strikes again**

Like the outstanding college newspaper that it is, the 
Yale Daily News has never shrunk from taking on any 
number of awesome and powerful opponents whenever 
the cause seems just. Last year, as just one example, 
the News courageously conducted an open feud with 
the allegedly dictatorial Dean of the drama school, 
Robert Brustein, and twice called for his resignation. 
So it should come as no surprise to any conscientious 
reader of the Oldest College Daily to hear that the 
News has now decided to take on the Yale Record over 
the humor magazine's use of the News trademark and 
copyright in an exam-time parody issue. 

Members of the News business staff have sent a letter 
to Record Chairman Thomas Carney threatening the 
Record with a law suit. The News is seeking all the 
profits from the issue (probably several hundred dollars 
from advertisers), plus another two hundred and fifty 
dollars for damages. Carney learned from the letter, 
that ironically, the News lawyer happens to be the 
Record's lawyer, and the Record now plans to get rid of 
him. Carney also says he may reprint the letter on the 
cover of the Record's next issue. 

Ah but things are becoming formal these days. Not 
too long ago such a matter would have been settled in 
open contest on the bladderball field, where every man 
must be a man. Why just last year the News itself informally ducked out of a potential libel suit from Olivia's 
Restaurant (for referring to that establishment's produce 
as "scumburgers") with a few strategically-aimed soothing words and a printed retraction. 

Yet maybe the News does have a point after all. If the 
Record gets away with this travesty-which it really was 
since the parody issue was distinctly unfunny-who 
knows where it will all end? The Banner, the Alumni 
Magazine, even the Yale Scientific might get into the act. 
But please don't worry, fellows and girls of the OCD, 
for we, at least, have no intentions of going daily. Bi-
weekly is just fine for us. And we don't plan on being 
particularly funny either, just for the Record.


**Title: Peace lives**
**Author: George Kannar**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Can you smell it yet? Or see it or hear it? Rachel Carson, 
DDT and the silentis majoritatis notwithstanding, the 
first signs of a not so silent spring have already begun 
to show through here and there. The liberal-radical-
revolutionary animals are beginning to stir from their 
winter-induced dormant state. 

The hibernation was not a deep one this year, or a 
very lengthy one either. To be sure, little has lately been 
heard from the Moratorium Committee which seems to 
be involved in backroom discussions on what to do about 
next fall's Congressional elections (one of the Yale directors having gone so far as to drop out of the Law School 
to work on the Duffey campaign), but the other peace 
and revolution groups have begun to gear up again. 

With fascinating existential irony the anti-war people 
are beginning to use against the government the very cry 
they have so often found turned against themselves: law 
and order. The Boston Five, the Milwaukee Fourteen 
and the D.C. Nine are going back to court, but they are 
returning as plaintiffs, not defendants. 

A number of anti-war elder statesmen like Reverend 
Coffin, Noam Chomsky, Marcus Raskin and Staughton 
Lynd, for example, have initiated proceedings against 
the Dow Chemical Company for producing "chemical, 
biological, bacteriological, incendiary and asphyxiatory 
weapons" which are being used to violate international 
law in Vietnam. Mentioned in the suit are napalm and a 
controversial herbicide, which is thought by some scientists to have mutagenic consequences for men. The 
plaintiffs contend that the Ninth Amendment to the 
Constitution gives citizens the right to start a suit if the 
government refuses to do so or is violating its own laws. 

In a slightly nitpicking statement to the Times, the 
group's attorney, Alan Scheflen of Georgetown University, said the suit is not designed to test the legality of 
United States presence in Vietnam, but just the legality 
of particular actions the United States is undertaking 
there-like using napalm. He hopes thereby to keep the 
case from being thrown out of court as a "political 
question." 

The New Mobe, in an imaginative exhibition of peace-
minded creativity, has come up with an interesting legal 
maneuver of its own. As part of its Draft Week program 
scheduled for the second week of March, the Mobe will, 
in a seeming change of philosophy and tactics, start urging people to comply with the Selective Service Act, or 
at least the part which says registrants must send to their 
boards all information which may be relevant for future 
Selective Service matters. The Mobe plans to ask people 
to send their boards anything and everything they can 
think of as frequently as they can. Some suggestions are 
regular letters about the registrant's thoughts on the war, 
life, philosophy and the draft; all books, pamphlets and 
articles which have affected his thinking; also Bibles, 
sermons, speeches and, if possible, daily health reports. 
The registrant is to ask his board to place all these things 
in his file. The idea is to create so much busywork for 
the boards that they won't have time to perform their 
regular tasks of conscripting an army. The plan has its 
flaws of course (since, for example, the Post Office Department rather than the draft boards would probably be 
the first government casualty), but its poetic beauty 
cannot be denied. 

All concerned admit, however, that these are only 
minor harassing actions. Reverend Coffin thinks the 
Nixon public relations offensive has substantially limited 
the value of more peace movement p.r. efforts. At the 
same time the Chicago trial, aside from keeping the 
movement active during the winter, has shown that it is 
not always profitable to use the law to quiet dissent. So 
the sides are switching weapons. Next thing you know 
Spiro Agnew will be leading marches on the Pentagon, 
and Norman Mailer will file suit to deny him a parade 
permit. 


**Title: Panther 14 + winter = 8**
**Page number(s): 3**

In radical numbers parlance, the New Haven "Panther 
14" just ain't what they used to be. As months of pre-trial 
hearings near an end, the "Panther 14" have shrunk to 
the "Panther Five plus Three," and the police privately 
indicate that they expect more drop-outs within the 
coming weeks. 

Of the fourteen Panthers arrested last year for the 
alleged torture-slaying of fellow Panther Alex Rackley, 
only five now being held in Connecticut jails will face trial 
on murder charges. Three more, including party chairman Bobby Seale, are fighting extradition to Connecticut. 
It is conceivable, though unlikely, that all eight could 
burn in the Connecticut electric chair, if found guilty 
of murder. 

Six of the original fourteen are no longer connected 
with the case. Three defendants have pleaded guilty, and 
three more have had their cases disposed of for a variety 
of reasons. They include two juveniles and Frances 
Carter, who was granted immunity from prosecution but 
was still given a six-month jail term for contempt of 
court when she refused to testify last month. The three 
to plead guilty to lesser charges are Loretta Luckes; 
Warren Kimbro, the reputed former head of the local 
Panther chapter; and George Sams Jr. of Highland Park, 
Michigan who implicated Seale in the case after his 
arrest last summer. 

Sams, who local Panthers claim is a "police agent," 
said Seale assigned him and two others (Kimbro and 
Lonnie McLucas) the task of executing Rackley, a New 
York City Panther who, police say, was suspected by 
his colleagues of being a turncoat. McLucas, the only 
one of the alleged three-man execution squad not to 
plead guilty, will be tried separately from the other eight 
Panthers who are still asserting their innocence. Panthers 
say the severed trial for McLucas is an attempt to isolate 
and destroy him. Sources in the State Attorney's Office 
privately maintain that they have a tight case against 
McLucas, including a possibly damaging statement from 
the defendant himself. 

The case against the other Panthers is not altogether 
as convincing, at least according to testimony uncovered 
in weeks of pre-trial hearings. W. Paul Flynn, defense 
attorney for accused Panther George Edwards, says most 
of the testimony implicating his client is "hearsay based 
on hearsay." He and six other defense attorneys have 
tried to undermine the validity of tips and information 
continued on page 14


**Title: Culture and rebellion: the dilemma of the radical professor**
**Author: Alan Trachtenberg**
**Page number(s): 3-6**

The following article, which originally ap-
peared in Dissent was rewritten by the 
author for The New Journal. Mr. Trach-
tenberg, a member of the faculty of 
Pennsylvania State University, is cur-
rently Visiting Associate Professor of 
English and American Studies. He is 
teaching courses on twentieth century 
American literature and "The City: 
Images & Ideas." 

In the eyes of many college faculty mem-
bers, the student activist movement wears 
the aspect of a sinister contagion. We hear 
accusations of "left fascism," of a new 
barbarism at the gates. Many people see 
the student protests as a symptom of 
larger, deeper disorders, a failure of au-
thority throughout society, a collapse of 
cultural values which have stood for 
centuries, an epidemical regression to 
infantilism. In regard to the university 
itself, a common response is that student 
radicals seem willing to eliminate the baby 
with the dirty bath water, that while they 
have done a service to call attention to 
the need of reform, they have by now gone 
beyond a meliorist crusade and are at-
tacking fundamental values without which 
no university is possible. The resort to 
violence-at least what looks like violence 
to most people-suggests that political 
goals have gotten enmeshed in anti-political 
intentions: it seems hard now to distinguish 
whatever may be sound in their moral 
aims from the intolerable nihilism and 
anarchism, so-called, of their behavior. 
Listen for the tune, not the words, and you 
hear sounds discordant with the humane 
goals of social transformation many aca-
demics were initially attracted to. 

Does the movement take its character 
from the words or the tune? Has the tune 
which sometimes sounds like a rock cacophony, come to prevail over the words, 
the principles and theories of social criti-
cism, or is the point that tune and words 
are now one, that the students have 
achieved an authentic expressive form for 
their political and social vision? Some 
older radicals seem already to have decided: if SDS is making a revolution, they 
say, they might very well line up on the 
other side. Social justice, freedom of 
thought and egalitarianism seem to have 
better defenders, they feel, among parliamentary liberals than among New Left 
anarchists. 

My own position is less certain, and I 
suspect that my mixed feelings and divided 
loyalties are shared by at least a small 
number of academics on every campus. 
Faced with growing pressure to line up 
against the students, to resist demands 
backed up by threat of force, to defend 
rational process and disinterestedness as 
ends in themselves, we are stuck in a dilemma. The pressure is to see the protests as 
discipline problems, as the Yale administration saw the disruption of some classes 
by radical students just before Christmas, 
and to define the campus issues under the 
heading of control and punishment. But in 
some moods student uprisings seem an 
avenging angel come to haunt us with our 
own little sins, compromises and equivocation, which suddenly loom as a major 
guilt-the guilt of being an academic, a 
scholar, a teacher, while wars rage and 
people starve. What kind of commitment 
is it we have made to Truth that takes 
locked files and riot police to protect? Does 
rational process include university-supported war research, ROTC, social 
engineering? Do we really mean disinterestedness, or passivity, and isn't neutrality 
often a cover for complicity? The way 
most universities are run, can we honestly 
speak of reason and humane learning as 
central values? 

These questions have bothered us long 
before the occupation of buildings. True, 
we may have allowed ourselves to drift 
into careers that have deflected our attention from such issues. For many of us, 
the academic campaign against the Vietnam war a few years ago represented a 
repoliticalization, a reactivation of older 
ambitions and passions. I am not sure how 
widespread is the feeling of a strain between demands of career and demands of 
politics. But that is not exactly the dilemma I refer to, for it is a personal matter, a 
question of priorities in use of time and 
energy. Whatever doubt we may feel is not 
over militarism, racism, or the structure 
of social privilege which discriminate in 
education against the poor and the ethnic 
minorities. Whatever else, we feel the 
university as well as society at large ought 
to free itself from these intolerable conditions. 

But our own experiences have led us to 
value the university in a way apparently 
incomprehensible to student radicals. For 
most of us the university has represented 
access to a culture fundamentally at odds 
with that of the larger society, a counter-
vailing culture that honors the development of consciousness, and reading, 
thinking and writing as the faculties of 
consciousness. It may sound excessive to 
say so, but the university has been a sort 
of salvation for many of us, salvation from 
the confinements and destructive ends, the 
dilution of ideas and culture, in the larger 
society. True, the academy exacts its own 
price, has its own intellectual and emotional pitfalls. Yes, scholarship and criticism is often exasperatingly pretentious, 
overwrought and stupid. The academic 
mind can be just as insulated from experiences outside its limits as any other and 
just as arrogant and patronizing about its 
own values. But why characterize the 
university only by its worst features? The 
university is perhaps the sole institution 
that makes accessible to its members the 
grounds of self-criticism, the only formal 
"place" arranged for free discussion, where 
the inherited and the contemporary can 
confront each other openly, where a usable 
tradition can be elicited from the encounter of old and new. 

Only a few years ago collaboration 
between students and faculty in behalf of a 
better university seemed natural. The 
enemy was seen as the administration. Its 
extensive bureaucracy, its machinery of 
manipulation, its budget-minded caution 
seemed to represent, as Thorstein Veblen 
argued in The Higher Learning in America 
(1918), the invasion of business-minded 
habits of thought into the academy. We 
seemed agreed on the necessity of freeing 
the "higher learning" from, in Veblen's 
words, "the manner of life enforced on the 
group by the circumstances in which it is 
placed." 

In the past year, however, the situation 
has tipped. Students are now more likely 
to find support, especially for demands of 
increased power over educational policy, 
from administrators who are coming to 
see their function as one of diplomacy and 
negotiation. And from the faculty they 
are more likely to meet a stubborn clinging 
to notions of standards and integrity and 
traditional prerogatives. Faculty resistance




**The University and the Counterculture**
**Author:  [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal I February 22, 1970 
can be traced to a guild outlook, emerg-
ing tentatively from a dimly recalJed past 
when teachers were teachers, masters of a 
field and carriers of a culture, and students 
were students, who came to Jearn. It is a 
teacher's business to decide what is to be 
taught. Of course in some measure his 
decision is made for him by his culture. 
But how else can you define a teacher? 
How can a syllabus be a negotiable issue? 
Moreover, teachers want to think that 
their subject makes a difference, that it is 
not merely a subject but an access to 
significance, an opening to a higher life. 
This idea of teaching has been called 
elitist, and in part it is. A major sociologi-
cal fact of university life in the past gener-
ation is that many teachers, particularly 
in the humanities, bring to their work an 
unmistakable sense of superiority to their 
students. It rests not only on differences 
of training and expertness, but also on 
differences of values. It is felt to be a con-
dition of life that to teach literature, art, 
and philosophy, it is necessary to wean 
most students from the culture of their 
backgrounds, a culture of provincial man-
ners, of puritanical practices, of con-
stricted, not to say crippling emotions. The 
students we have called "best" are those 
who display a sensibility for a "higher life," 
those who come to share our contempt for 
the mass culture of American society. 
The idea of a cultural mission of the 
university is frequently evoked by those 
who worry about the anti-intellectualism 
of students. This worry has been transfer-
red, it is interesting to note, from the 
average, sluggish student-the typical mid-
dle-class American youth-to the radical 
and activist student, who is often also the 
"best. ... " 

Now we are taken unawares by the fact 
that even-indeed, especia/ly~ur "best" 
students seem no longer interested in any 
. version of the "higher life." This raises an 
extremely sensitive issue. Far from sharing 
our contempt-and fear-of mass culture, 
many students are now embracing it. 

A comment like Richard Goldstein's in 
The Poetry of Rock, that "America's single 
greatest contribution to the world has 
been her Pop (music, cinema, painting, 
even merchandising)," that "mass culture 
can be as vital as high art," must surely 
meet with wide approval among the young. 
This idea, put in such simple terms, reveals 
a dilemma. To be sure, notions of "high" 
and "low" tend to become formal conven-
tions; genteel sanctions do frequently 
compete with intrinsic sanctions in "high" 
culture, and "official" academic values 
can stifle art and deny it the nourishment 
of new experience. The "higher life" does 
threaten to externalize itself, to yield to 
the satisfactions of an insignia, of manners 
and elegant speech-in short, snobbishness 
-instead of maintaining itself as an inner 
condition, a freedom and subtlety of mind 
and feeling. 

Moreover, the badge of culture, like aJI 
badges and uniforms, can be put to anti-
democratic uses. Whitman charged that 
the word "Culture" was an enemy of 
Democracy. It separated people into 
castes, it projected an aristocratic hier-
archy of worth. A hundred years ago he 
wrote: "Of all the dangers to a nation, as 
things exist in our day, there can be no 
greater one than having certain portions of 
the people set off from the rest by a line 
drawn-they not privileged as others, but 
degraded, humiliated, made of no ac-
count." It is still a danger. The academic 
idea of "high" culture, which was won 
against the genteel tradition of earlier 
generations, has often, and often unwit-
tingly, served as a fence around a special 
preserve of experiences. The academy has 
seen itself as a means of liberation from 
the hold of bourgeois values-usually 
abstracted as "materialism," as if that 
exhausted the matter-and from the banal-
ities and easy satisfactions, what Whitman 
called the "half sleep," of mass culture. 

Yes. But the alternative has tended to 
become a brand of its own. The exclusion 
of black, of immigrant, of working-class 
and ethic experiences from university cul-
ture is one instance. The insistence of 
"third world" students that the university 
not deprive them of their historical culture 
(even where they have to scratch to find 
evidence of one), not compel them to 
forget their language and their customs, 
but instead equip them with the means to 
foster cultural self-consciousness among 
their people, is precisely to this point. 

Anthropology alone should have taught 
us that there are many ways of conceiving 
a. "higher life," and that cultural depriva-
tron robs a man as ruinously as any other 
form of banditry. But the demand that the 
university redefine its cultural role in light 
of the multiplicity of American life (a 
severe undertaking under any circum-
stances) is one thing, and the demand, 
implicit in much of the protest, that it 
rej~ct the life of the mind altogether, is 
qurte another. One of the reasons for stif-
fening faculty resistance is an uneasy 
feeli!'lg that while the students may be 
acting out of and thereby reviving ethical 
imperatives, they may also be enacting a 
mindlessness we have always felt as an 
intimidating presence in American life. 

The quest for "pure" experience, the sub-
stitution of sensation for thought, the flight 
from discipline-these have been historical 
features of American culture. In conflict 
with opposite ideas identified with 
"Europe," ideas of tradition, authority, 
and complexity, they have leavened much 
of our literature and thought. 

But detached from their opposites, cele-
brated as self-evident goals in their own 
right, these impulses toward anarchic 
freedom lose the very conditions which 
made them meaningful, and radical, in 
earlier periods. Yes, our young radicals 
have rejected, with refreshing spirit and 
elan, much of the musty and cramped 
style of middle-class life. They are loose, if 
they are nothing else. But their rejection 
takes a form that might in the end rein-
force the institutions they want to over-
turn. The glorification of Pop, for example, 
suggests that as profoundly as the young 
feel alienated from their society, they are 
right at home in its culture. 

Insofar as the mood of rebellious students 
represents skepticism toward the pieties of 
national life, toward the evasion of intel-
lectuals and academics, and toward the 
present state of knowledge-especially the 
split between value and fact reflected in 
the absurdly compartmentalized university 
curriculum-the mood invites faculty sup-
port and alliance. But there is cause to 
worry and for criticism in the degree in 
which student radicalism deviates from 
democratic and socialist thought, and veers 
in the direction of a "counterculture" 
which is capturing many Americans. 

In part campus unrest conforms to the 
wave of changes in personal style that defy 
political or racial lines. It is a style that 
stresses the self-sufficiency of adventure, 
experiment, spontaneity.lt is a style of 
repudiation, and it brooks no interference 
with "free" expression. We see it in the 
arts: in theater and film and music. Most of 
all we see it in fashion. It might be mis-
taken for a new avant-garde movement, 
but an avant-garde with such popular 
appeal should make us suspicious. It is 
more likely that the mass media are catch-
ing up with the earlier avant-garde move-
ments-Dada, surrealism, theater of cruelty 
-and detaching mannerisms and tactics 
from their theoretical foundations as a 
calculated critique of bourgeois culture and 
vestigial classicism and formalism. What 
was assault then, has by now become sheer 
mannerism, sheer sensation. 

The mass media are playing an unpre-
cedented role in propagating a "counter-
culture" with the flavor of "now!" Think 
of the importance of rock. Its practitioners 
are no longer entertainers but gurus. The 
music and its makers are celebrated-the 
proper word may be promoted- not only 
for the excitement of rhythm and sound, 
but for their message, their litany of liber-
ation. And their message inspires a craving 
for what? For more of the same, as the 
record industry well knows. The same 
message, the same inducement to "do your 
own thing" and to "let it all hang out" 
can be heard in theater, in film, in the very 
visible "underground press,' in the mush-
rooming "encounter groups." Writing in 
Esquire, Elenore Lester has described the 
message as this: "Try hallucinogens: they 
drive you out of your wretched mind. Try 
nudity: it returns you to your sanity. Try 
multi-media baths: they stretch the sen-
sorium. Try confrontation: it cleanses the 
psyche. Try revolution: it energizes the 
environment." 

In its disregard for theory generally, the 
New Left has pretty much ignored the 
media and has failed to develop a critical 
point of view toward mass commu{lica-
tions. Slogans from McLuhan and murky 
fragments from Marcuse have served in 
lieu of analysis. This is not the entire 
answer, but neglect of theory has helped 
make radicalism susceptible to media 
exploitation-and the exploitation is bla-
tant; mind-blowing is a major industry. 

There is a belief abroad that changes in 
hair style, in dress, in sexual habits consti-
tute a rejection of the social order and 
prepare you for revolution. The new style 
is supposed to be more "authentic"; the 
fact that it is also fashionable does not 
seem to occur to its defenders. Some intel-
lectuals, whose sensibility has been formed 
in the modernist movement, are sometimes 
prone to hail any sign of the "new" as a 
spark of life, and to enjoy the idiosyncratic 
and the bizarre for their own sakes, for the 
"hell of it." Rather than a process of 
mastering social reality by will and 
thought, revolution has come to mean 
something dangerously close to sheer 
impulse. 

Granted, the energy invested in cultural 
rebellion, in acid-rock insurrection against 
the old ethic of deferring pleasure for the 
sake of profit, may have a revolutionary 
potential. "In a culture judged as inor-
ganic, dead, coercive, authoritarian,'' 
writes Susan Sontag, "it becomes a revolu-
tionary gesture to be alive .... Bending 
the mind and shaking loose the body makes 
someone a less willing functionary of the 
bureaucratic machine. Rock, grass, better 
orgasms, grooving on nature-really 
grooving on anything- unfits, maladapts a 
person for the American way of life." 


--- Page 5 ---

51 The New Journal I February 22, 1970 
But what do these gestures fit a person for? 
What social alternatives do they imply? 


**Film Quotes**
**Author:  [Various]**
**Page number(s): 6**

95% of films a re born of frus-
tration; of self-despair, of 
poverty, of ambition, for sur-
vival, for money, for fattening 
bank accounts. 
SAMUEL FVLLER

It was his duty to keep the 
Kingdom of the Movies free 
from the ancient enemy of 
the People-Art. 
BEN HECHT on LOVIS B . MAYER

5% of films, maybe leas, are 
made because a man has an 
idea, an idea which he must 
expreas. 
SAMUEL PULLER

Keep up your hands, honey. 
Give me a full shot of your 
equipment. 
RUSS MEYER

Give us a place to stand and we 
will film the universe. 
MOTTO OF THE AMERICAN SO-
CIETY OF CINEMATOGRAPHERS

Senator's X-Sex Hex A Vex 
VARIETY HEADLINE

Only one thing I can't under-
stand about it, J ack-in the 
chase, why didn't the Indians 
just ahoot the horses pulling 
the atagecoach? 
FRANK NUGENT to JOHN FORD

The cinema is truth twenty-
four times a second. 
JEAN-LUC GODARD

We'll make the pictvrea, let 
Western Union deliver the 
messaees. 
HARRY WARNER

Sometimea you wonder what 
it' a all about. ON FILM
APPEARING SOON

Is the "American way" really in danger 
from such gestures? The fact is that the 
"American way" itself has cultivated these 
impulses, has set them up as its secretly-
admired version of what it means to be 
"different." Are we witnessing the middle-
class, in a mood of self-hate and anxiety 
about its "authenticity," turning against 
itself by turning itself inside out? The 
fantastic notion that if only the "uptight" 
middle-class would "turn on," war and 
poverty would cease, the air would depot-
lute itself, and capitalism self-destruct 
has become a pleasant fantasy, and for that 
reason so effective a piece of vicarious 
entertainment for the middle class itself. 

And the pugnacious idea that all authority 
is evil, rather than specific uses of author-
ity, serves to obscure the causes of war 
and poverty within the present structure of 
society; it raises a straw man in place of 
concrete analysis. 

In the student movement there is a consid-
erable amount of discussion of theory; 
but theatricality, gesture, the hope for 
"instant revolution"-not to speak of indis-
criminate terror-seem often more 
prominent than the effort to arrive at clear, 
persuasive statements of issues and map-
ping of strategy. The cry for "relevance" 
is a case in point. It is another example of 
an emerging pattern of impatience with 
analysis and contempt for history.lt is also 
an example of the debasement of a good 
idea through sloganizing. Many faculty 
members are vulnerable to the cry because 
inwardly they apply a standard of rele-
vance to their own work, but they recog-
nize how complex, how tentative, how 
problematic the standard can be. The 
current idea of what is knowledge ought 
always to justify itself in light of criticism; 
that indeed is the function of intellectuals. 

Perspectives on the past always reflect, 
with greater or Jesser degrees of awareness, 
the influence of the present. Students make 
a valuable point when they attack much 
of what passes for "objective" knowledge 
as formalistic and ideological, as knowl-
edge serving specific political and social 
aims under the guise of neutrality. They 
are right to try to penetrate to the social 
purposes and uses of curriculum. 

But in demanding relevance students 
often assume that only the contemporary, 
which is to say the fashionable at the 
moment, is worth bothering about, that 
history, being dead, should be junked, that 
they themselves are the arbiters of what is 
relevant or not, living or dead. "Swamped 
with presentness," as Paul Goodman puts 
it, they seem unwilling to acknowledge 
that the "present" is a supremely difficult 
entity to define. Whitehead wrote that "the 
present contains all there is," that is, as 
an accumulation of the past, the present is 
the only possible locus of thought and 
action. This casts a somewhat different 
light on "relevance." Of course the present 
matters in a way the past does not; the 
future matters most of all. With more of a 
regard for history, students who cry for 
relevance might be better able to extrapol-
ate from the present the best possibilities 
for a desirable future. 

But it would be a hopeful sign if mixed 
feelings began to appear among the stu-
dents as well. Recent history has raised the 
pitch of contradiction within society, and it 
would be strange if individuals did not feel 
the effects. Inner conflicts is a sign that 
history still matters. Such coofticts can 
serve as revelations of the state of the 
world, within and without. The faculty 
might help keep alive a sense of the final 
uncertainty of the nature of student 
activism. It is senseless to exchange 
slogans, to hurl reproaches. It will be tragic 
if we allow the present agitation to settle 
in our minds as a discipline problem, just 
as it is tragic for radical students to feel no 
need for further education. 

It is hard to say where hope for are-
newed university lies. But surely it does not 
lie in repression of any sort. "In every era," 
wrote Walter Benjamin, "the attempt must 
be made anew to wrest tradition away 
from a conformism that is about to over-
power it." Unexpectedly, conformism has 
appeared in the camp of rebellion as well 
as in the main body of society. But we 
cannot allow that fact to obscure the larger 
questions, of what we mean by university, 
by society, by culture at all. It is ironic 
that we are moved to puni$h students who 
have, no matter how unceremoniously, 
raised these questions. A better motive 
would be to help transform their assault 
into a reasoned critique and a program for 
change. The immediate problem is to 
restore the possibility of discourse. • 



**Roller Derby: Up, down, all around**
**Author: Bryan Di Salvatore**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Friday night, colorless New Haven, down Grove
Street, past the booming presses of the New Haven
Fishwrapper and Evening News, right turn at the
indifferent blacked-out neon ARENA in front of crusty,
uggy and begrimed warehouse that has the aura of a
cigar snuffed out in a cold egg yoke. Inside the empty
hole strong arenaroma takes over: dirty socks, coughs
and wino wet dreams. Unpainted, weary uncom-
fortable benches, grey concrete walls with forgotten
aisle numerals. Cold and quiet, defaced and bored,
one expects hobnailed storm troopers, but the arena
provides only derelict, ne'er-do-well, maroon-coated
mumbling ticket takers who begin taking tickets as
soon as the bovine cigar-drowning manager of noth·
ing tells them what a shit town New Haven is com·
pared to Springfield and Waterbury where there
are more seats and fans so he can charge the same
amount but make more profit.


All that is needed for a complete continuance of
any Northeast industrial semi-pro shit city are black
hunks of perma-ice by the aisles, because the crowd
is street ugly and familiar. The Army field-jacket-
ed psychedelic contingent from Kreski's with wimpy
see-through mustaches and sideburns walk with
hands in pockets casually checking out other field-
jacketed would-be freaks checking them out. Some
have dates, semi-skirted with cotton candy hair done
in a rat' s-ass. Sticky hair to go with sticky faces that
you see on all the women. Sorry son, you'll never
see your mother's face again, we just couldn't blast
through this time. That Max Factor's the toughest
sonofabitch I've seen. Everyone's face is done in
casual paste. The fattest, unhealthiest crowd in the
world.


Dull brown and green overcoats, suits and sweaters.
If you give the crowd a blurred scan, the impression
is porridge with brown sugar; hold the milk.


In the center of the arena is a radial striped, banked
oval track, with a masonite surface screwed to drilled
angle plates, giving the impression of a giant erec-
tor project. Carniv.l ride flimsy, it is a silent prop
rather than the launching pad for ten roller skaters.
A guard rail surrounds the track, well-padded, but
cheapened w ith orange and black crepe paper.
Fifteen folding chairs stare at each other from two
lines in the infield, and two penalty boxes, also orange
and black, sigh patiently behind them.


The skaters sit alone, quietly talking, laughing,
smoking. The girls are fine specimens 11nd smile
brightly when signing autogr11phs. As the arena fills,
they file to the dressing rooms, lugging sea bags,
w•ving at the crowd.


As the aren;~ fills, the announcer apologizes for
the delay uused by the wrong starting time being an·
nounced in the papers. But no one seems to mind,
there's plenty of beer and anticipation, especially on
the part of slumming Yalies, heavily armed with over-
dressed dates ;~nd high camp consciousness.


Finally the announcer presents, for pre-game warm
ups, ''THE NORTHEAST BRAVES." Oh boy. From op·
posite sides of the arena come eight men and eight
women we;~ ring green tights with yellow side stripes,
dull silver trunks and jerseys with yellow numerals.
The men h<~ve black skate shoes, the women white,
knee pads for ;~II . The uniforms are well worn, torn,
thin, faded, ;~nd wrinkled. Applause is non-existent,
only scattered boos. Round and round the track go
the mighty braves, some slowly, all indifferently,
others racing and weaving, banking and coasting,
stopping to slap a teammate on the ass, occasionally
waving to the crowd. loosening up, but sloppily
ragged and unfriendly.


All the women have short hair and bulging leg
muscles. Their mouths open and shut, open and shut,
CHew, CHew, CHew, CHewing gum. Every girl. All
the time. The faster they skate, the faster they chew
in open mouth staggered precision.


After a few minutes, the crowd is restless again, a
bit unsure <~bout the upcoming entertainment. Finally,
the Braves crawl under the railing and return to the
dressing rooms. The aren;~'s rusty buzzer, sounding
like the fart of • rnorb;~ck hawg, sounds. The ;~n­
nouncer p<~uses, then: " LADIES AND GENTLEMEN
THE SAN FRANCISCO BAY BOMBERS."


Hoot, holler, the arena comes alive with an affec·
tionately orgasmic leap to the feat. Whistle stomp
point clap scream and smile. The Bombers are really
back. In comes the Orange and Black brightly cos·
tumed team, swarming onto the track with natural
enthusiasm and confidence. Bright smiles on all the
skaters, fresh, sunny uniforms. "The girls and the
boys are particularly concerned with keeping clean,"
captain Margie lazlo had said, and you bet your
boots she was truthin'. Ah, the confidence was oozing
from their skates, and New Haven hadn't seen any·
thing so new and professional in many years.


Round and round, faster, crisper, into serpentines
and frisky practice blocking. Smiling and shouting to
each other, Charlie O'Connell seeing an old friend
in the crowd, comes over and ch;~ts for a while. So
inform• I that local heroes can-talk to local hero wor·
shippers, and the Bombers have the worshippers.


A huddle and pep talk, break with a clap and the
final w•rm up begins, a super fut serpentine, all
thirteen teammates close quarter, nose to ass, once,
twice, three times around counterclockwise ending
with a full length hip slip side scrape spread eagle
for one of the girls.


Back come the Braves to much more enthusiastic
booing as the crowd is up and itching for action during
the National Anthem. The first period begins, and
watch out, for the next ninety-six minutes, 'cause it's
jungle ball on skates and masonite, body contact and
gorilla theatre as the jammers, two out of the five on
a team, try to lap the pack and receive points for
every enemy skater passed.


Everything seems to be legal, and "JAM TIME"
brings shrieks from the crowd anticipating ninety
seconds of asses and elbows.


The two to watch are Margie Lazlo, number thirty·
nine of the Bombers, and Cathie Read, twenty-eight of
the Braves. Sweet Margie, 5' 9", twenty-seven years
old, with dark h;~ ir tied in a pony tail, handsome
and seductive like June Carter, with high cheekbones
and bright eyes, unmarried, soft on the outside. But
a finger-breakin' bone-stomp in' hot shot skatin' super-
star whose innocent charm vanishes as Read shoves
a Bomber over the rail, then leaps on Lazlo's back
and pounds and tears. It's happenin'. Lazlo frantically
kicks and slugs, bumps and swears, giving elbows
to the ribs and chest of Read, who is a low class loud·
mouth lucille Ball cachinating loser. Read is placed
in the penalty box and the next time around lazlo
knocks it over, Read with-in it. Read streaks to lazlo
who side steps and pushes her into the fattest referee
in the world and skates away laughing.


Lazlo pounds Rosetta Saunders with three knock-
downs. Her elbows are all over the track. Three
minutes into the third period, Sandy Dunn of the
Braves neck-bashes a Bomber into a guard rail and
rabbit punches the neck. No penalty, but Lazlo comes
around and windmills fists into her face, knocking
her down, and Lazlo skates away satisfied. Round
and round. Elbows, knees, spread eagle back slides,
guard rail flip overs, tripping, kicking, "Lazlo, I'm
gonna tear your eyes out. Get me outta this goddam
penalty boxllll"


Round the corner, blood and passion in their eyes,
knocking, clubbing, oh my god what would they be
like in bed. Carolyn Morehead, thirty-six for the
Bombers, blond and smiling, spread eagled, angry
and pained, she belongs on a commune. Just what is
SHE doin' here? Those almost revealing uniforms.
Don't give me this dike shit. Those are real women.
I love you Bombers.


The men's alternate periods at first seem anti-
climatic, but the pure excellence of their skating abil-
ity commands attention. The Downhill Racer moves,
gravity defiance, G-forces grinding on turns,
sharp pivots, screeching turns on overcrowded track,
weaving in and out behind the pack, looking for the
hole, dig in and accelerate. Off balance knee bend
spread eagle, but make it up and keep skating. Tony
Roman, Bombers thirty-seven squatting between
Braves' legs for points, then obnoxiously skating
around infield, making faces at Braves and the ref-
erees, a Mickey Rooney smart ass showoff, but the
best skater on the track. If he's bitten off a bit too
much, he stands wimpering behind the only skater
alive who can wither the pack with one glance-
CHARLIE O'CONNELL.


Brought out of retirement last year, big number
forty takes no truck from any skater. Fifty thousand
dollars worth of pig iron, Charlie is Babe Ruth,
Duke Kahanamoko, Casey Stengel, Don Schollander
and Jean-Claude Killy. O'Connell's the name but he
looks like a cross between John Wayne and
Broderick Crawford.


No one gets by the massive hulk of Charlie
O'Connell. Silent player-coach Charlie, roaming the
oval like the biggest meanest mountain cat, knocking
Woodberry of the Braves over the rail into the stands
and standing proudly, impassively, as the world
considers a broken neck. O'Connell swooping up and
pulverizing a just-fallen jammer with his skates. No
one but Charlie has four double knock downs in
ONE JAM TIME. He drifts along the oval like a run-
away box car, try to pass him for the point and
POOM in the rib, Kooof, into the shoulder, pound,
pelt, pulverize, maim. Charlie O'Connell bruises
bodies. Go Charlie. The crowd cannot believe his
wonderfulness.


The men continue skating, spinning around, off
balance and into the rail, leaping back and into the
pack with delicate control, helmets and fists flying,
jaws chawing, faster, faster, Shattuck of Braves stomp-
ing on Selesta's stomach, kneeing his neck, skates to
the ribs.


Round and round, close quarters, trip, slide, bump,
mash, kick, stomp, elbow. Finally, with a close-quarter
weaving reverse spiral last minute effort, Roman and
O'Connell, Mutt and Jeff, fail to score, as the Braves
sneak away thirty-nine to thirty-six, as the Truth or
Consequences buzzer ends the match.


The crowd leaves, with shaking heads, half the
lights are d immed. Several of the skaters return
quickly for a two-hour bit by bit dis-assembling of
the track. Tomorrow they skate at two P.M. in Prov-
idence, the next day in Boston. Unload the truck,
set the track up, take it down, load the truck, skate in
between. Get drunk at night. Drive to Boston, down
to Charlottesville, over to Omaha, Chicago. Set up,
skate, take it down.


Good-bye Charlie. Good-bye sweet Carolyn and
Margie. Good luck to you all. •



**Love Story**
**Author: Paul Goldberger**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal I February 22, 1970 
Slick, sentimental, 
almost camp, but good 
by Paul Goldberger 
Love Story by Erich Segal. Harper & Row, 131 pages, $4.95. 
Yes, 
Erich Segal did write Love 
Story. This business that he did not-that 
it is much too good, that no one who writes 
movies like Yellow Submarine and teaches classics at 
Yale and runs ten miles a day can possibly write a good 
novel, too-is aJI a lot of bunk, and furthermore, it begs the 
question. Segal can do almost anything, it should be evident by now, 
and it is high time his skeptics admitted it. So all right, then-the real 
question must be, is this novel the deep and profound piece of literature we 
should expect from such a diverse mind, or does it smack of the work of- dare I 
use the word?- a dilettante? No, this, too, begs the question. Love Story is slick, 
and it is obvious that Segal was having a good time when he wrote it (the fre-
quency with which Yale personalities pop up as minor characters proves that). But 
this isn't what matters. For despite its slickness, despite its predictable plot, Love 
Story is a very good novel. 

There is really no reason why it should be so good. Not only is it too smooth, it is 
so sentimental it is almost camp. The story is simple: Oliver Barrett IV, rich, 
WASP-y Harvard jock, meets Jennifer Cavilleri of Radcliffe, a poor "American of 
Italian descent and a music major." They fall in love, marry despite the opposition 
of his parents, and live happily until tragedy occurs. There is no mention of drugs, 
and the sex is implied, not detailed. Surely no self-respecting Y alie would be 
caught dead reading something so ridiculous. 

Why, then, with every reason in the world for it not to, does Love Story so nearly 
perfectly succeed? First, it is a splendidly written story. Segal writes in that rare 
style distinguished by nothing unusual at all: it is not too terse and journalistic, 
neither is it too flowery and embellished. The only proper word for it is grace-
ful. Every word, every phrase, is in its perfect place, distinctive but not such a 
bon mot as to detract from the effect of the whole. I found myself (to my 
astonishment) wondering whether I should want to change so much as a 
word. Love Story, like the film The Graduate, belongs to that small class of 
works that are not of great scope or great significance, but are special 
simply because they have nothing wrong with them. 

Good construction alone does not a novel make, of course, but there is 
more to Love Story. Segal has a remarkable way with characters-not 
for creating them, for they are almost laughably stereotyped, but for 
making them transcend their pre-cast identities and emerge as sem-
blances of real people. How odd this, too, is after years of reading 
novels that spend a hundred pages analyzing a character's hang-
nail and at the end of it all say no more {if not much less) than 
Segal does in his sparse, scattered pages of description. As 
with the sketch whose few lines are so well placed as to 
make the eye fill in the depth exactly as the artist 
wishes, one feels here as though he knows Segal's 
characters much more than he has any right to. It 
is perhaps a bit easier for the reader on a col-
lege campus, for he can fill in the gaps with 
people he knows to create his own 
image of the snotty-but-wonderful 
Radcliffe girl and the Harvard 
jock who is too good to be 
what he is. And Segal also 
cheats somewhat, as he 
deftly selects scenes 
that will allow 
some - just 
enough-
contra-
d ic-
~ 


11 I The New Journal I February 22, 1970 
tory 
traits to appear in his charac-
ters to give the illusion of greater depth. 

But the effect is still there, and the ultimate 
portrayal is so good that it takes almost a conscious 
effort not to care deeply about the characters, and even more 
of an effort (for Cambridge is not so far away!) not to identify 
with them. 

It is not impossible that there is a large audience for whom this book will 
fail miserably. Businessmen, the most academic of our scholars, and the most 
liberated of our women are not likely to enjoy it. But it has been loved by 
matrons (it was just excerpted in Ladies Home Journal, perhaps making Segal the 
first Yale professor to have written for both that publication and Yale Classical 
Studies), for the book's unabashed sentimentality was enough to win that group. 
College students make strange bedfellows for Ladies Home Journal readers, but 
there are still reasons why they are reading the same book at Yale- reasons that go 
beyond its graceful execution. Segal has perceived that the revolution we aU talk of 
being in the midst of is in a large part a romantic one, a movement not so much 
forward as backward, away from technology and organization and towards nature 
and people. The most radical fringes can be called exceptions, but the moderate 
dabblers in the youth culture have surely adopted many romantic characteristics. 

What Segal has done, in effect, is to play upon these romantic tendencies by 
taking them one step further into the realm of sentimentality. Love Story is a 
trick, a joke, a pun on those among us to whom an alliance with the forty-ish 
matron set would be anathema. Segal has tricked us into reading a novel about 
youth today that has little sex, no drugs, and a tear-jerking ending; and worse, he 
has made us Jove it, ponder it, and feel it to be completely contemporary. We 
are, deep down, no better than the sentimental slobs who sit under the hair-
dryers every Friday afternoon. It's all the same underneath. Segal has our 
number. 

But, ho-before we take up arms against this man who dares to tell us 
we are not so very different- SegaJ is not hinting at a coalition 
between the readers of Ladies Home Journal and Rolling Stone. That 
isn't where it's at, and even if it were, it wouldn't matter. For what 
is important is not that Oliver and Jenny span time (in some ways 
they do not, and are very much of the 1960's) but that we, in 
the role of readers, are not so different from those who have 
gone before. It is good to know that there is still room for a 
warm and tender story; too often all of us-revolutionists 
and reactionaries alike- get so caught up in the cynicism of 
the age that we lose the desire, the wonderful 
old-fashioned desire, to delve into a joyful piece of 
literature, to love its characters, to enjoy it for the 
mere sake of its own excellence. Such a book is 
Love Story; it is warm and eloquent, and for 
this it is wonderful, nothing more. If we 
are unable to appreciate this, how far 
have we really come? Oliver 
Goldsmith once noted, "They 
liked the book the better the 
more it made them cry," 
and, cynical though this 
observation may have 
been, its impli-
cations are not 
really so 
awful at 
all. •


**Film Schedule**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 11**

Shows start at 7:00 and 9:30P.M. unless otherwise noted 
Thursday, 19 Feb. 
Experimental Program: 
Stan Brakhage's MOTHLIGHT 
SCENES FROM UNDER CHILDHOOD, Part 3 
George Landow's FLEMING FALCON 
Warren Sonnebert's WHERE DID OUR LOVES GO? 
Ron Rice's CHUMLUM 
George Wieland's SAILBOAT 
Friday, 20 Feb. 
Roberto Rossellini's PAISAN (1946) 
Saturday, 21 Feb. 
Kenji Mizoguchi's SHIN HElKE MONOGOTARI (Taira Clan Saga) 
Tuesday, 24 Feb. 
Jean Renoir's LA MARSEILLAISE (1938) 
Wednesday, 25 Feb. 
Roger Corman's THE ST. VALENTINE'S DAY MASSACRE (1967) 
with Jason Robards and George Segal 
Thursday, 26 Feb. 
Samuel Fuller double bill: 
PICK-UP ON SOUTH STREET (1953) 
With Richard Widmark, Jean Peters, and Thelma Ritter 
THE STEEL HELMET (1951) 
with Gene Evans, and Robert Horton 
one show at 8:00p.m. 
Friday, 27 Feb. 
Orson Welles' THE IMMORTAL STORY (1968) 
with Orson Welles and Jeanne Moreau 
Luis Bunuel's SIMON OF THE DESERT (1965) 
with Silvia Pinal and Claudio Brook 
Saturday, 28 Feb. 
Sergio Leone's FISTFUL OF DOLLARS (1966) 
with Clint Eastwood 
Tuesday, 3 Mar. 
Kanji Mizoguchi's YANG KWAI FEI 
never before seeh in New Haven 
Wednesday, 4 Mar. 
Fritz Lang double bill: 
CLOAK AND DAGGER (1946) 
with Gary Cooper and Lilli Palmer 
RANCHO NOTORIOUS (1962) 
with Marlene Dietrich, Mel Ferrer, and Arthur Kennedy 
one show at 7:00p.m. 



**Yale Symphony Orchestra Concert**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Yale Symphony Orchestra 
]ohnMat.tceri, director 
Commemorating the 75th Anniversary of theY ale School of Music 
Alvin Singleton (M.M.A. '7 I) 
Mestizo II 
(first performance) 
Pat.tlHindemith (Faculty '40-'53) 
scenes from "Marries der 
Maler" 
Judith Fay, soprano 
Richard Anderson, baritone 
Richard Parke, tenor 
The Whiffenpooffs of I 97 o 
Charles lves (Yale '98) 
Symphony No. 4 
(first New Haven 
performance) 
John Kirkpatrick, piano solo 
Yale Bach Society 
Paul Althouse, conductor 
Woolsey Hall Friday evening at 8:30 
Admission Free February 20, I970


**Yale's Commitment to Teacher Training**

Mr. Lindley felt that whatever 
the plan they carne up with, it would not 
be a commitment to teacher training. 
Although he views the members of the 
committee as "well-meaning" he sees their 
function only as providing undergraduates 
enough of what they're pressuring for, in 
this case an access to a teaching career, 
rather than in making a positive statement 
of what the university should be doing 
to meet the need of training teachers. 
The program's director, Edward Gordon, 
did much to summarize the question of 
Yale's commitment to secondary education 
in light of the cancellation of the MAT 
program in a statement to the graduate 
faculty when the cancellation was decided 
upon. 
''Though our program has been small, it 
has been influential. Eighty-five percent 
of our graduates since 1951 have remained 
in some form of education. They are 
becoming important in developing cur-
ricula, writing textbooks, and running 
schools. 
· 
"Our program has been imitated all over 
the country. If Yale says now that it is 
unimportant, it will be making a statement 
of public policy that I disagree with. 
"The training of undergraduates as 
teachers may be equally important; we 
have now sixty signed up in our current 
undergraduate teacher training program. 
It does, however, seem to me that to 
concentrate only on the graduates of one 
college is far less professional. 
"As you know, the work of a relatively 
few, well-educated teachers in secondary 
schools is ultimately useful to colleges 
and graduate schools. The MAT program 
has produced teachers who know what 
good college and graduate education is. 
They, in turn, are more likely to take to the 
schools the standards that wiU stimulate 
the best in their students. They will also 
recommend colleges to their students. 
"The MAT program has never pretend-
ed to be adequate as Yale's commitment 
to public education. There should indeed 
be programs in research and adminis-
tration, but they will be futile if there is not 
a greater supply of intelligent teachers in 
the classrooms. The central fact of educa-
tion, as well you know, is what happens 
between the teacher, the student and 
the idea." • 


**Panthers**
**Author: Thomas R. Linden**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Panthers 
continued from page 2 
which police obtained from two, as yet 
unidentified, Panther informants. All the 
while, the Panther lawyer.s have been 
insisting that their clients should be 
granted bail and released pending trial. 
The six Panthers being detained in Con-
necticut have claimed that they have been 
"'harassed and both mentally and physical· 
ly intimidated"' in jail. 
The greatest setback to both defense 
lawyers and Panther supporters, so far, 
has been the guilty plea of Warren Kim-
bro. Although Sams has been labeled a 
police agent from the start by local Pan~ 
thers, they have been unwilling to cast their 
former local leader in a similar opprobious 
light. Rather, they have charged that Kim-
bro was pressured into a confession by 
Sergeant Vincent DeRosa, a member of 
the New Haven Police Intelligence Divi-
sion and an old acquaintance of Kimbro 
who visited him in prison, four days prior 
to his guilty plea. 
Kimbro said he initiated the discussion 
with Sergeant DeRosa, but Kimbro's 
former lawyer, George Johnson, claimed 
that DeRosa's visit was in violation of 
Kimbro's constitutional rights. Johnson, 
who since has been discharged by Kimbro, 
said he never was notified of the sergeant's 
visit. Kimbro, in rebuttal, said be was "sick 
and tired of being used." The only pressure 
on him to plead guilty, he said, was "the 
pressure of conscience." 
But, there undoubtedly have been other 
pressures on Kimbro, besides simply those 
of "conscience." His brother, William, a 
member of an out-of-state intelligence 
unit, has told this reporter in a telephone 
interview that he did visit Kimbro, shortly 
before he entered his guilty plea. Beyond 
that, William Kimbro would not elaborate. 
In addition, this reporter discovered in 
New Haven County court files that Kim-
bro's wife, Sylvia, instituted divorce pro-
ceedings against her h!Jsband, whose bouse 
at 365 Orchard St. was once the local 
Black Panther headquarters. In a motion 
for Kimbro to vacate his house, Mrs. 
Kimbro's Ia~yer, David M. Lesser, said 
Kimbro "permitted his acquaintances the 
continuous use of the premises" without 
his wife's consent. That divorce motion 
was filed in April, 1969. One month later, 
twenty New Haven policemen raided the 
Kimbro house and arrested every moving 
body inside on charges of murder and kid-
napping-everyone, that is, except for 
Mrs. Kimbro and a monkey found in the 
kitchen. 
According to testimony from Inspector 
Stephen Ahern, brother of the New Haven 
police chief, Mrs. Kimbro was later 
arrested at her own request for "disturbing 
the peace." Some Panther defense lawyers 
maintain that Ahern's remark may have 
been just a "red herring" in an attempt to 
link Mrs. Kimbro with one of the two 
unidentified informants, one of whom is 
a female, according to the police. 
Beyond the "whodunit" aspects of the 
proceedings, several important questions 
remain. Will Bobby Seale's lawyer, Charles 
Garry, be allowed to represent his client 
in his toughest court fight ever? Will the 
Panther trial(s) in New Haven turn into 
guerrilla theatre? And what, ultimately, 
will happen to the local Black Panther 
organization? 
As to the first question, several legal 
sources interviewed who asked to remain 
anonymous said they felt that Seale, who 
is slated to face re-trial in the Chicago 
conspiracy case on April23, will not be 
allowed to have Garry as his counsel. For 
the second question, one can only specu-
late that clashes between the Court and 
the Panthers, who have been quiet so far, 
might begin if and when they face separate 
trials. State's Attorney Arnold Markle, by 
asking for separate trials, would be under-
cutting Black Panther attempts at "soli-
darity." And as for the future for the local 
Panthers, that may depend as much on 
the trial itself as on anything else. Accord-
ing to informed sources in the police 
department, the Panthers numbered eigh-
teen prior to last year's raid. and zero 
following it. Now, again according to 
police sources, through the efforts of 
out-of-town chapters, the party has grown 
in strength to a current estimated size of 
twenty-five members. The New Haven 
Panthers, headed by area captain Doug 
Miranda are trying to build a community 
base through their free breakfast program 
• 
' 
and political "consciousness" campaigns. 
Still, they have to disprove the charge that 
they executed one of their own if they 
want to save their brothers' and sisters' 
necks, and maybe even their own. 
Thomas R. Linden 
(Mr. Linden, a Yale senior, is a staff 
writer for the Los Angeles Times and 
is covering the Panther trial for that 
newspaper.) 


**ProMusica at Yale**
**Author: Edward Landler**
**Page number(s): 15**

ProMusica 
Few people know what krummhorns, 
kortholts, and sackbuts are. Of those that 
know they are musical instruments, fewer 
yet know how to begin to play them. Last 
October, Yale discovered that a good 
number of people wanted to learn when 
the New York Pro Musica spent a week 
in residence here. The Pro Musica's week 
of concerts and rehearsal seminars, 
though, was only the first half of an ex-
periment in the teaching of old music at 
Yale. The second half of the experiment 
will be conducted next week when the Pro 
Musica returns to present a new produc-
tion of a liturgical drama. This experiment 
may lead to the long-term residence at 
Yale of the Pro Musica, one of the few 
groups in America to present faithfully 
the neglected works of the Middle Ages, 
the Renaissance and the Baroque. 
The Pro Musica's appearances at Yale 
this year was arranged by Professor Wil-
liam G. Waite, Director of Graduate 
Studies in History of Music and Richard 
French of the Pro Musica Board of Direc-
tors. The appearances were regarded as a 
trial run for a possible term of residence. 
The two concerts presented September 
30th and October 3rd and the seminars 
conducted between the concerts were met 
by an unexpected response. At the first 
program, the Pro Musica performed music 
of the Italian Courts at the end of the 
Renaissance, including madrigals by 
Claudio Monteverdi and works of less 
renowned composers Cristofano Mal-
vezzi, Giaches de Wert and Bastian 
Chilese. Despite the fact that it was a 
Tuesday, Sprague Hall was packed, pre-
dominantly by the young. One faculty 
member saw it as a "Woodstock in minia-
ture," and the feeling of the audience was 
serious and appreciative. 
Medieval and Renaissance music of 
England was the program for the second 
concert on Friday. The music of William 
Byrd, John Bull, Orlando Gibbons et al 
brought out an even greater crowd than 
had shown up Tuesday. 
The Pro Musica's appearance at Yale 
in March is planned to be more intensely 
integrated into the existing curriculum 
than was its appearance in October. In-
stead of conducting independent seminars 
on old music, the Pro Musica will visit the 
classes teaching the performance of old 
music. Outside of this week-long activity, 
the members of the ensemble will partici-
pate on March 5th in a joint seminar of the 
faculties of the French and History of 
Music departments. The seminar, to be 
moderated by Professor Howard Garey, 
will discuss relations between poetry and 
music in the fourteenth and fifteenth cen-
turies which will be musically illustrated 
by the Pro Musica. 
The central program, though, of the 
Pro Musica's residence this month will be 
the new production of a twelfth century 
Easter play-the Resurrection Play of 
Tours. A dress rehearsal will take place 
Friday, March 6, following a medieval 
studies symposium in the morning and a 
panel discussion concerning the liturgical 
drama in the afternoon. The actual per-
formance of the Resurrection Play wiJl be 
presented Saturday evening at Christ 
Church on Broadway. 
The events planned for March are far 
more extensive than those of October. The 
plan, after all, is to pack into a week what 
might take place in two months of perman-
ent residence. 
Permanent residence at Yale for the 
New York Pro Musica would mean per-
haps two to three years of the ensemble 
being based at Yale, spending half the year 
at Yale and half the year touring. The Pro 
Musica's duties here would be as per-
formers in residence to aid in the per-
formance and teaching of performance of 
old music. They would fit into the cur-
riculum much the same way they will fit 
into it during this visit. While in residence, 
the ensemble would remain an autonom-
ous group merely housed in university 
buildings. The Pro Musica would retain 
its own trustees and funds, as well as its 
collection of one hundred twenty-five 
instruments. 
Unfortunately, there is one major 
obstacle to be overcome before the New 
York Pro Musica comes to stay-and that 
is money. The ensemble's two weeks of 
residence in October and March are being 
paid for by the university. But a perman-
ent residency for the Pro Musica may cost 
about one hundred thousand dollars a year 
and Yale at this point is unwiling to put 
that much more into the field of music. 
Edward Landler


**The Yale Dramat Presents "him"**
**Author: e.e. cummings**
**Page number(s): 16**

the yale dramat presents 
him by e.e. cummings 
feb. 26-march 1, march 6 - 8 
box office is open


**Bear Bottom Sale Advertisement**
**Author: N/A**


Tinker Shop 
Bowl & Board 
75 Whitney Ave. 
sale on all fur rugs 
sheepskins icelandic sheepskin 
carabou himalayan ram 
goatskin fox wolf 
fur coats 
all sizes 
$1~$20


**Erich Segal Biography**

by ERICH SEGAL 
Erich Segal began his movie 
career as co-author of the 
Bead es' Yellow Sttbmarine and 
has since composed numerous 
screenplays. He has recently 
written two films for producer-
director, Stanley Kramer, the 
first of which, R.P.M., stars 
Anthony Quinn as a college pro-
fessor caught in a crisis of values. 
Also the author of scholarly 
books and articles about Greco-
Roman antiquity, Mr. Segal lives 
in New Haven, Connecticut, 
where he teaches Classics and 
Comparative Literature at Yale. 
Love Story is his first novel. 
$4·95


**77 Broadway Advertisement**

trlll·lll11 
(i¥\..!> 
111111111 
77 Broadway 
Open 9-5:30 Daily 
Thursday 'til9 
cash or charge 
and P.R. too!

