Publication date: April 20, 2001
Volume: 33
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- PUBLISHER: Sipa Pruchvala
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Atrya Kammaz
- MANAGING EDITORS: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Patrick Casey Pins
- DESIGNER: Tatiana Jirloff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Carl Hunneford
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Eric Rutkow
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Joanna Lydgau
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Blake Wilson, Matthew Underwood
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Jacob Blecher
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER: Clint Carroll, Sara Hirschhorn


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- FEATURES
- Consolidated Edison - Jacob Blecher
- Conservative Compassion - Daniel Kurtz-Phelan
- Trainspotting - Linda Rosenbury
- The Dean's the Thing - Patrick Casey Pins
- STANDARDS
- Editor's Note
- Points of Departure
- Essay: Wonder Women? - Victoria Lyall
- The Critical Angle: Looking for America - Matthew Underwood
- Endnote: Cracking the Whip - Clint Carroll


**Title: Consolidated Edison**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 12**
Who stands to lost if New Haven follows Hamden into for-profit education ?


**Title: Conservative Compassion**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 18**
Global AIDS activists use Yale to prick the corporate conscience


**Title: Trainspotting**
**Author: Linda Rosenbury**
**Page number(s): 25**
Photos and essay


**Title: The Dean's the Thing**
**Author: Patrick Casey Pins**
**Page number(s): 28**
Yale's faltering drama school misses its cue


**Title: Essay: Wonder Women?**
**Author: Victoria Lyall**
**Page number(s): 34**



**Title: The Critical Angle: Looking for America**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 36**
reviewing the American gallery at the Yale University Art Gallery


**Title: Endnote: Cracking the Whip**
**Author: Clint Carroll**
**Page number(s): 38**


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
This magazine hits the stands April 20, amid two grand conver-
gences. Thousands of activists, including a coalition of Yale stu-
dents, workers, and homeless New Haveners, are leaving for Quebec 
City to protest the World Trade Organization's extension of unfettered 
trade across the Western Hemisphere. And hundreds of Yale's most 
illustrious alumni, including the elder President Bush, are arriving here 
to celebrate our tercentennial.


No doubt both events will be characterized by a lot of rhetorical 
arm-waving about their historic significance. But I, for one, would like 
to know which moment will prove more momentous, since I can only 
be in one place at one time.


A phrase that's been swimming around in my head for the last few 
months is "the myopia of the present"-in other words, the illusion that 
all points of time, space, and importance converge just before one's 
nose. I think that students at an elite university are especially suscepti-
ble to this optical illusion, being young, coddled, and flattered by fre· 
quent references to their school in connection with politics and litera-
ture and important scientific discoveries. Dan Kurtz-Phelan's story in 
this issue explores just such a flattering Yale connection. At a certain 
point in the fight to bring cheaper AIDS drugs to Africa, a quiet cam-
paign at Yale was instrumental in securing the release of a patent it 
held on the drug d4T. But what happens next? As Dan points out, 
nobody really knows.


Which brings me to the kind of myopia I would like to be able 
to justify: the myopia of a bunch of writers with journalistic inclinations 
publishing a student magazine about Yale and New Haven. Recently 
we got the chance to meet Daniel Yergin, who founded The New 
Journal in 1967. He spoke on a tercentennial panel titled "Defining 
Moments at Yale." With an asymmetry perhaps meant to be dynamic, 
half the speakers addressed themselves to events before 1900, and the 
other half talked about the late 1960s. Yergin brought some early 
copies of the magazine and described his and his friends' attempts to 
record and respond to a moment of unprecedented upheaval, the 
"Kingman Brewster Years" of coeducation, countercultural protests, 
and the Black Panther trial. While the battle lines may be less firmly 
drawn for our generation, some of us still aspire to the same sharp-
ness of focus. 
-Anya Kamenetz, Editor-in-Chief



**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 6**

was beginning to wonder 
when I first met 
enthusiasm about · had 
of the fact that I real-
an,ydling about any-
of Q$ brief freshman-
with Studetu:s' Against 
had come in to get some 
some condoms. He also 
the '"kit" that everyone 
It h,as rubbing 
pads, band-aids, 
tourniquet to tie drug 
ace easier to find and 
to the Bridgeport Needle 
all the time, every day it was 
He's been shooting crack for 
years, and does it every ·day. 
to brag about. When I have 
I do it every day. When I don't, I 
It ain't nothing to brag about," he 
Fred has two kids, who live with 
mom. He bas no job. How does this 
anyone, I was beginning to wonder. 
then I asked Fred what he used to do 
the van existed, before 1993· "I 
shared a lot of needles. I used to shoot up a 
often. I shared a lot of needles," he 
I asked him if he was scared of getting 
"Hell yeah I'm scared," he answered. 
why I come every day. I get needles 
·I'Uibb4ecs. Yes I an1 scared." I asked if he 
to be as scared. "I just never thought 
it so much then. I just had no reason 
about it," he answered. This was-
Students Against Sweatshops 
was fucking real and true and 
was saving people's lives. 
The Bridgeport Department of Health 
with its Needle Exchange 
stop the spread of HIV among 
'-"' .............. ,~~-J ...... .-. growing group of vic-
g 
rims-intravenous drug users. Maria 
;;J 
Melendez, an Outreach Educator for the 
w 
~ • Bddgeport Department of Health who 
~~~~a i 
runs the van, has a similar mission: to hand 
l ~ ~ ~;;; out condoms and clean needles and love; to 
~~,.·~~
· 
!!U~Eo·<.r.i;; ~g; 
18JilSill 
keep people sober as much as possible; to 
stop the spread of AIDS. "There's a miscon-
ception that needle exchange is just about 
needles. It connects people to all kinds of 
services. And it connects them to people," 
Maria explains. 
Martha came in next. She asked for 
some clean needles and shuffled around for 
a few seconds, hiding inside her big black 
puffy jacket. Mack, a haem reduction work-
er, asked her how she was doing. She rolled 
up her sleeves and held out both of her 
palms to Mark and Maria. "See, I don't 
know what ~ese ace. The doctor said it was 
nothing, but ' I didn't tell him about the 
crack. It really hurts," she said quickly, 
pointing to conspicuous, oddly shaped 
bumps on both hands and a strange-col-
ored patch on her face. "Do you think it's 
fungus? Or bugs? What is- it?" she asked 
anxiously. ~ark :i:nd~Macia examined her 
hands carefu~ l.,couldn't believe that they 
were llft~j~~ching the bumps. What if 
-she ~V~~ous? "Is it a tingly pain or 
a <:sharp~?"' (Mack asked. 'kit's a pulsing 
pain, 
?e~. Maria interrupted. "Ho~ey, 
you're s OOtUtg' up all wrong. That's why 
you s.ot t\,ose bumps. You got shingles," 
Maria sa\d. She patiently explained that 
Martha b~ to stop using vinegar to break 
the crack down, or she would start to get 
abscesses and fungal infections. She 
grabbed some packets of powdered citric 
and ascorbic acid &om the boxes lining the 
wall and explained that Martha couldn't 
use food products like vinegar and lemon 
juice to dissolve the crack because they 
contain bacteria; the powder is safer. Mark 
took Martha to the back of the van to talk 
to her more about her skin and how to 
make it better. 
I asked Maria why Martha's doctor 
hadn't helped her. "Honey, she didn't go to 
no doctor," Maria explained. "They never 
go to the doctor. They treat them like shit 
at the hospital." She and Dave told me ho• 
sometimes people come in with hugt 
abscesses and high fevers bu~ say they ate 



**Title:  A Good Heart**
**Author: Sushma Gandhi**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
fine and absolutely refuse to enter the hos-
pitals. "You just have to say, 'Honey, you 
goin' to the hospital.' Don't talk in no for-
mal English. You have to talk in street talk. 
If you talk in street talk, they listen. All 
those people at the hospital don't even 
know how to talk to these folks," she 
exclaimed. "And they are terrible at the 
hospital. They treat them so bad." 

But what if someone is really sick? 
What if someone has HIV or pneumonia or 
something that Maria's big heart and warm 
soup just can't ftx? "Sometimes I take them 
in," Maria explained. She told me about 
Cindy, who she had been close to, who had 
come to the van for clean needles every day. 
She was a "working girl," Maria explained. 
Maria noticed that she smelled terrible, so 
terrible that it fiUed up the whole van. "I 
knew it was coming from down there," she 
said. Maria took her in to the Bridgeport 
Hospital. The nurse was scared of her and 
the srneU. She wouldn't touch her at aU 
without gloves. "She treated her like a 
leper. She gave her a hospital gown holding 
it by two fingertips. She wouldn't talk to 
her. She would only talk to me. I said, 
'She-'s not contagious. You don't have to 
worry.' She said, 'I know what these people 
are like. I'm a professional.'" Cindy wanted 
to leave, but Maria stayed with her, felt her 
humiliation with her. Cindy turned out to 
have Hepatitis Band began receiving treat-
ment. "Sometimes you have to make them 
go in," Maria said. 

Maria glows because she loves so much 
and so well. She has bright purple nails and 
bright fuchsia lipstick, worn New Balance 
shoes, a gold tooth, and a necklace with a 
large, dangling crucifix. She shines. She 
cooks for the clients and hands out the vit-
amins and condoms and crack pipe screens 
with a gusto I could never have imagined. 
"You gotta have TLC," she explains cmphat-
icaUy. "If you don't have that tender loving 
care, you're never going to get anywhere 
with them." 

-Sushma Gandhi


**Title: Comma Law**
**Author: Alan Schoenfeld**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EAcH YEAR, COME EARLY MAY, the Yale Law 
School transforms into a battlefield. Lines 
are drawn, students and faculty cake sides, 
and fancy rhetoric spews forth from the 
mouths of soon-to-be litigious twen-
tysomethings. Words like "democracy" and 
"tyranny" are thrown around with rhe same 
conviction and gravity as they were in 
Franco's Spain. 

But what is at stake has less to do with 
the fate of nations than with the egos of a 
smattering of the school's students. It is in 
early May that the Yak Law journa~ the 
student-run law review of the nation's best 
law school (membership in which, accord-
ing to some, is a prerequisite for important 
clerkships and job offers from big firms), 
culls the top of the very top of the student 
body for membership. And it is the test 
that does the culling that causes the Law 
School's yearly turmoil. 

The test consists of two parts. The first 
asks students to compose a letter to the 
author of a submission to the journaL The 
second-the part that annually causes the 
brouhaha-is a test of students' "bluebook-
ing" ability. The Law School blue book 
bears lircle resemblance to the beloved Yak 
Colkge Programs of Study. To get an idea of 
what the future Supreme Court justices of 
America are subjected to, think of the MLA 
Handbook annotated by a Senate subcom-
mittee. Page upon page of the blue book-
and, consequently, hour upon hour of test-
takers' study time--is spent on the rules of 
comma placement and italicization. Major 
Supreme Court decisions are shorter and 
less complex chan the guidelines that 
answer the pressing question of when a 
comma should be italicized and inside the 
quotation mark. Or italicized and outside 
of it? Not italicized and outside of it? 
Underlined? What, pray tell, do the 
gods of jurisprudence say about the 
ever wily umlaut? Do we cooper-
ate, or do we cooperate? If you're 
perplexed, ask any one of the 
scores of law students clutch-
ing their blue book as a 
fanatical 
preacher might 
grasp his Bible. Be sure to 
approach them gently in the 
dining hall as they rack their 
brains to engage in what one law 
student affectionately calls "the utterly 
mind-numbing, useless memorization of 
thoroughly stupid details." 

It is the stupidity of this exercise, cou-
pled with the mythical importance of being 
on the journa4 that, according to dis-
senters, engenders the disgust and cynicism 
of each year's nay-sayers. Meetings at which 
students lodge complaints against the 
journal editors are announced. The infa-
mous Law School "Wall," the permanent 
site for the airing of grievances of all sorts, 
plays host to endless pronouncements of 
"Why I'm not going to tty for the Yale Law 
journaL" The Law School's comedy troupe, 
the Law Revue, scarcely lets a year go by in 
which they do not lampoon the Law 
journal for its ridiculous admissions prac-
tices. Last year, as the testing season 
approached, a group of progressive stu-
dents sold mugs emblazoned with the 
encouragement "Make love, not Law 
JournaL" It seems that none of the dis-
senters is really wrong. Is the memorization 
of ridiculously minuscule details the best 
way to distinguish the best of the best when 
admissions committee after admissions 
committee has already placed its impri-
matur on these students' resumes? The pro-
cedure for electing students to membership 
on the journal has less to do, some would 
argue, with the students' intellectual ability 
than with their ability to jump through yet 
another flaming hoop in order to prove 
their mettle. Couldn't they devise a more 
reasonable way to figure out who 
would contribute most to the 
journal? 

The unfortunate answer from 
journal supporters-who by and 
large acknowledge how ridiculous 
the 
admissions 
process 
must 
appear-is a resounding no. Simply 
put, bluebooking is what you do your 
first year or so on the journa4 so you have 
to be competent. If the explanation is so 
rational, then why the constant and vehe-
ment dissent? Perhaps it is because these 
students have danced the standardized-test-
meritocracy two-step for so long and have 
finally tired of it. Or perhaps they are final-
ly frightened of it. One journal survivor 
explained, "Yalies want merit badges, and 
too many of them just can't win this one." 

-Alan Schoenftld


**Title: Smoke on the Water**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

ON SEPTEMBER 18, 1992, JJ 4=35 A.M., resi-
dents on East Shore's Townsend Avenue 
were awakened to find the back of a neigh-
boring house ablaze. Within minutes of 
their arrival, investigators were certain the 
ftre was the work of an arsonist hoping to 
prevent any former residents of the pre-
dominantly black Elm Haven housing pro-
ject from moving to the neighborhood. 

The pattern was repeated twice in the next 
six weeks. In 2001, as New Haven prepares 
to complete the demolition of Elm Haven, 
East Shore has incorporated these new 
arrivals, but the success of efforts to change 
its residents' minds remains equivocal. 

East Shore sits across the Quinnipiac 
River from the rest of New Haven, an awk-
ward 
and 
sometimes 
troublesome 
appendage. Part of East Shore once 
belonged to East Haven, but was sold to 
New Haven and finally incorporated in 
1918. Since then, East Shore has had a trou-
bled relationship with both cities, sharing 
New Haven's ta.x burden while socially 
resembling its more 
suburban neighbor. 

The East Shore of a 
decade 
ago 
is 
described as having 
its "roots in the Hill 
and in Wooster Square. It is a homoge-
neous neighborhood. About 75 percent of 
its people :ftc Italian Roman Catholics and 
most of the rest are Irish Roman Catholics. 
A large number of residents attend Saint 
Bernadette's 
Church 
on 
Townsend 
Avenue." 

In the summer of 1991, with the demo-
lition of 366 units of the city's Elm Haven 
housing project, the federal government 
ordered that New Haven find housing for 
half of those who had been displaced. The 
government order further stipulated that 
this housing be "scattered-site" -not in 
areas zoned for low-income housing devel-
opments, but in middle-<:lass neighbor-
hoods. In the city of New Haven, this left 
little choice but East Shore. 

The New Haven Housing Authority 
purchased eleven homes in the area in 
January of 1992. The reaction in East Shore 
was immediate. Homeowners expressed 
concerns about property value, knowing 
the Housing Authority's dismal record. 
They were also concerned about the gap 
that would be left in taX revenues when 
those homes used for the scattered-site pro-
gram were taken off ta.x rolls. The news 
came on the heels of a jump in real estate 
taxes. 

Seven months after the program was 
instituted, some of the residents' fears bad 
been realized as these properties stood 
vacant and uncared for. Then the fires 
started. 

While 
a 
plaque on 
Saint 
reads, 
"Saint 
Bernadene Parish Community Welcomes 
You," someone was sending a different 
message to the families who would soon 
occupy these homes. The ftre on Townsend 
Avenue was the first. Within six weeks, twO 
more fires were set and tern~ flared. 

Opponents of scattered-site housing 
grew more vocal and defensive, its support-
ers more vehement and embittered, and the 
issue quickly became polarized by race. In 
response, the Reverend Howard J. Nash, a 
pastor at Saint Bernadette's Church, orga-
nized a series of interfaith meetings cen-
tered on acceptance. "At the rime we had 
no idea who might have been doing this. I 
just didn't want to see any violence or any 
acts ofhatred," Nash said. Morris Cove res-
ident Edward Flynn recalled, "The meeting 
focused on brotherhood. 'We're all mem-
bers of the human race,' that was the mes-
sage, and the audience was a mixed one, 
over 500 people." 

Despite these efforts, tensions contin-
ued. John Daniels, recently elected New 
Haven's first Mrican-American mayor, 
organized a rally of his own on the site of 
one of the burned homes. While the rally 
was designed to express outrage at the 
seemingly racially motivated arson, East 
Shore residents saw it as an accusation. For 
months the R~ 
and Advocate op-ed 
pages rang with heated talk from both 
sides. "Race Not Involved." "Tax Revenue 
Lost." "It's Mayor's Fault." Daniels and the 
local NAACP saw racism in other letters to 
the editor such as one that begged, "Who 
wants a slum next door?" Another con-
cerned citizen urged, "Leadership Needed." 

Indeed, leadership was the missing piece, as 
each faction had its supporters but few 
were "committed to bringing all sides and 
all points of view together." 

Tensions over the scattered-site hous-
ing began to dissipate as agreements were 
reached over the care of property and pri-
vate management was appointed for the 
homes. Yet, in 1993 continued economic 
trouble combined with earlier tensions 
instigated a movement among East Shore 
residents to secede from the city. Their rea-
sons included high t.aJCltion, low quality 
social services, and lack of representation. 
The movement had strong support from 
some, but it became clear the secessionist


**East Shore: A Tale of Two Eras**
**Author: Eikn Thompson**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In 1979, the predominantly white residents of East Shore, a New Haven neighborhood, launched a campaign to secede from the city, fearing the influx of minority families from a nearby housing project.  This effort, however, was short-lived, facing legal challenges and ultimately abandoned.


In the years since, the neighborhood has undergone significant demographic shifts. Property values have rebounded, and the economic downturn of the early 1990s is a distant memory.  East Shore now boasts 153 scattered-site homes, all occupied without incident. Former Fire Chief Martin O'Connor points to the area's achieved diversity, a contrast to its past. While the neighborhood is more diverse now, some long-time residents are moving to the suburbs seeking lower taxes and greater homogeneity.  This represents a subtle but significant shift, where the financial advantages of suburban life outweigh the social benefits of a diversified neighborhood.


**Puzzled by American Culture?**
**Author: Sara Hirschhorn**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

"Puzzled by AMERICAN CULTURE? What is an American and do you wonder why they do the things they do? Space is limited, so hurry if you are interested," urged the e-mail that found its way to my inbox mid-February. Clearing the papers off my keyboard, I responded with as much American gusto as I could muster. A day later, with a welcome warmer than Mom's apple pie, I was cordially invited to participate as a "genuine American guest" in Yale's first US culture workshop. Great, I thought, an international petting zoo.


As I prepared for the panel, I considered how to present myself as an "authentic" American. Why did I ever agree to do this, I fretted in a high-pitched suburban Jewish white girl whine, pacing back and forth across my common room. Blasting "American Woman," I decided that I might as well look the part. I frantically rummaged through my closet, searching for the perfect outfit. Where were my miniskirts and pom-poms? Forget it, I thought, settling for my red, white, and blue pajamas. Already late, I grabbed a cup of coffee and set out on my way.


Following the pink signs through the labyrinthine basement of Rosenfeld Hall, I was greeted with open arms and an information packet by Elisabeth Mead, Assistant Director of the Office Of International Students and Scholars. Now here was a real American: blonde hair, blue eyes, and business casual. Mead, who left her job teaching ESL to start the program two years ago-following her first trip outside the United States at age 35-was eager to get under way. Nervously twirling her hair and chirping, ''I'm so American-what time is it? What time is it? When are we going to start?" as she passed out agendas, complained about tardiness, and wondered whether we should watch the movie first or eat pizza.


Akemi, a Japanese housewife married to a doctor at the Medical School, leaned towards me to talk. Shy but confident, she told me she had come to the United States two years ago but had just perfected her English. On my left, Christopher, a real minister, was chatting in a thick Southern accent with Yong "Tony" Zha-Ma, Elisabeth's assistant for the afternoon.


Clapping her hands to get our attention, Elisabeth introduced herself. To make everyone feel comfortable, she decided to share her experience visiting Italy and her "culture shock." "Here I was, coming from the nation of all nations, and I had no idea what to do. Can you imagine?" she asked.


Soon, it was time to introduce ourselves, because we were going to learn so much about ourselves and each other. Pointing a lacquered nail around the room, Elisabeth named them. In the corner was Heidi, a researcher from "where they make BMWs." Heidi smiled back thinly. Next, Professor Maira, a visiting scholar in psychology from Kazakhstan. Then, Raquel, a pharmacist from Spain whose husband was writing his dissertation. Across the room was Mukhtar, a Somalian graduate student in International Studies who had left his family in an Eritrean refugee camp to come to New Haven. I had hoped to hear more of their stories, but Elisabeth was getting anxious.


Soon, we were split up into groups. "Look, you four, you are the s-t-a-r group," she explained, pointing to a symbol on Tony's name tag. With majestic hand gestures and short sentences, Raquel, Tony, Maira, and myself were herded into the corner to tackle questions like "What is your idea of culture shock?" and "What is the American Dream?" "Just signal if you need me," she called over her shoulder, bounding over to help the others find their groups.


Exactly fifteen minutes later, Elisabeth interrupted and started the video, boasting that the "all-American pizza" was on its way. Praising us for the "simply wonderful" discussion, she reminded us that if we ever felt the need to talk, we should go to our friendly local therapist. "All Americans do," she assured. "I used to go every week!"


Then, she flipped on the video. Elisabeth would stop the tape every few minutes, reminding us that "culture was like an iceberg," our actions the result of deep, hidden values. "See," she explained, holding the packet up like a story-book, "sometimes [values] are under the water and we can't see what makes us act that way." But once we understand how Americans act, we can learn that it's "no problem" for us to "just all get along." We bonded over pizza and then said our good-byes.


Later, when I chatted with Elisabeth about the program, she spoke of the limitations of her fledgling enterprise, but was confident that she was helping people "resolve [their] cross-cultural issues." It was only the first workshop, after all. Even though not everyone "loves people and new experiences" or "operates on the basis of compassion, understanding, and open-mindedness" the way she, an American, does, we can all aspire to the ideal. Leaning back in her chair, she admitted that she "couldn't expect to change them into a mini-me." But it was only a matter of time.


**Title: I onso 1**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
onso 1 
By Jacob Blecher 
~~H 
I, MY NAM£ IS DANIEL," a boy stutters softly as he walks up to 
the doorway, "and this is a seventh~grade math class. We've been 
working on solving equations and correcting our homework, and 
right now we're going over some work we did yesterday." He smiles, 
turns, and heads back to his desk. His classmates, all the while, 
work quietly, showing little interest in the speech. Daniel is a stu~ 
dent at Wintergreen lnterdistrict Magnet School in Hamden, 
Connecticut's first partnership with Edison Schools, Inc., a compa~ 
ny (headed by former Yale president Benno Schmidt) that manages 
public schools for profit. Daniel is also one of the school's 
"greeters," Edison~prescribed tour guides who inform visitors of the 
daily happenings. 

Since it opened in 1998, Wmtergreen has been welcoming vis~ 
itors of all kinds-researchers, politicians, prospective parents, and 
curious local residentS---every day, and the school has appeared 
glamorously in publications like Time and The New York Times. For 
Connecticut, Wintergreen is the first for~profit educational venture, 
serving K~8 students from Hamden, New Haven, Wallingford, and 
Woodbridge. For Edison, which typically commandeers failing 
public schools, Wintergreen is the first interdisuict school and one 
of the few schools with a majority of white, middle~class kids. "We 
have a very, very diverse learning population here," Dale 
Becnardoni, the school's principal, told me. "We don't have a pop~ 
ulation that's 98 percent minority or 80 percent free~ or reduced~ 
lunch." 

In the mid~nineries, a vacant school on Wmtergreen Avenue 
came to the attention of the Hamden school board as they faced 
overcrowding. Realizing that the state would pay for renovations if 
the school became an interdisuict magnet, the board secured the 
participation of three area school districts. With that, "WIMS," as 
Wmtergreen is affectionately known, was born. None of the four 
districts sending students wanted to manage the school or supply 
the curriculum, so they looked elsewhere. They decided that the 
nitty~gritty details, like employment and maintenance, would fall to 
Area Cooperative Education Services (ACES), a subdivision of the 
State Depanment of Education which operates magnet schools and 
APRIL 20, 2001 
arts and special education programs in southern Connecticut. 
Curriculum, technology, and teacher training would come from 
Edison. "We're a public school in every way," Bernardoni told me, 
"except that we follow an Edison design and we're managed by 
ACES. So we follow all of the standards that are part of being a pub~ 
lie school, such as teacher certification, using the Connecticut 
Mastery Tests as a tool for assessment, and getting our funding from 
local and state taxes." A steering committee, composed of superin~ 
tendents and school board members from the sending districts, 
ACES representatives, and Edison representatives, oversees the whole 
process. "This is a very complex school," Bernardoni admitted. 

Over the years, educators, politicians, and community leaders 
in New Haven have been joining the growing ranks of 
Wintergreen's interested observers. In recent months, more and 
more of them have been expressing a desire to bring Edison into 
New Haven's public schools. This is true even though for weeks, the 
media have been trumpeting Edison's scandalously failed bid to 
manage five New York City schools and allegations that the com~ 
pany kicked out under~performing and minority students at its San 
Francisco school. And the latest Edison Schools Annual Report 
described Wmtergreen's trends in state test scores as "strongly nega~ • 
rive"- in fact, the school received the worst performance rating of • 
any Edison school in the nation. The percentage of fourth graders 
at the school who met the state goal for reading in 1999 had fallen 
from 56 percent, the state average, to 50 percent. 

E
DISON CLAIMS TO SELL an irmovarive and thoroughly researched . 
product to its schools. According to its web site, the company has • 
"designed an absorbing curriculum, anchored by ambitious stan-
dards for student achievement." Every Edison school uses the same ' 
battery of programs. For reading, teachers use Success for All, a pro-
gram developed at Johns Hopkins University; for science, a 
National Science Foundation program; for math, Everyday 
Mathematics, a program developed. at the University of Chicago;' 
and for history and social studies, an ethics program developed by 
13 


--- Page 14 ---

Hamden's Wintergreen school has the worst performance 
ratings of any Edison school in the nation. 

the Heartwood Institute. Edison schools 
are divided into "academies"-which corre-
spond, more or less, ro elementary school, 
middle school, and high school-but the 
programs of study are similarly conceived 
for each one: Edison devises a curriculum 
·on the corporate level that schools are 
obliged co follow. 

On a visit co Wintergreen, I sat in on 
a first and second grade reading class. Every 
morning, from 8:30 co 10:00, students in 
kindergarten through fifth divide into 
Success for All reading classes. As Edison's 
website expounds, "The whole school is 
reading! The next 90 minutes are the most 
precious of the Edison day. Families are 
urged not to make appointments for stu-
dents during the reading block, and teach-
ers are given release time only for emergen-
cies. The whole school is focused on build-
ing reading skills with the Success for All 
program." 

Instead of grouping students by grade 
level, Success for All uses "tracking." 
Students are tested and placed into classes 
according to scores. The class I visited was 
made up of high-performing first graders, 
average second graders, and low-perform-
ing third graders. At the beginning of the 
period, students were sitting in small 
groups. The teacher had written the words 
"plenty," 
"coyotes," 
"whispered," 
"molasses," and "sight" on the board and 
had asked the class to write five sentences 
using those words. Like most features of 
the Edison curriculum, this activity has a 
special name: Meaningful Sentences. 

Though some students seemed to be hard 
at work, others were obviously not on task. 
When I asked one nine-year-old what he 
was writing about, he replied tersely, "I 
don't know." Other students I asked-
younger ones who sat together mutely-
did not even reply to my question. The 
teacher, all the while, sat at her desk in 
silence. 

By nine o'clock, the class had moved 
onto a new activity called Adventures in 
Writing, a prompt-based writing exercise 
related to a story the class has been reading. 
"What are five things that you would bring 
with you .if.you had co move?" the teacher 
asked the class. "I want you to think first, 
and then to list them." She repeated "five 
things" over and over again and then asked 
the students what important piece of infor-
mation they need to tack on to the end of 
their lists. None of the kids figured it out, 
and the teacher finally told them: "I want 
you to write 'These things are important 
because .... "' This mech'od of teaching, 
which is an integral part of the Edison 
design, also has a special name: Direction 
Instruction. Edison describes Direction 
Instruction as "explicit teaching combined 
with skilled questioning and observing to 
assess student understanding." Or, as Jack 
Gillette, head of the Yale Teacher 
Preparation 
Program, 
exaggerated, 
"Chanting-Ah-Eh-EEh-Oh-Ou." 

While students immersed themselves 
in Adventures in Writing, the teacher told 
me that behavior had been a problem late-
ly. "Some of the kids are new this week," 
she said, "and they're getting used to my 
expectationS:" Success for All allows kids 
who score high enough on periodic assess-
ments to move up into higher-level reading 
classes during the year, and chi~ class had 
just received a fresh batch of advancing stu-
dents. She does not think, though, that the 
mixture of ages in her class is bad for the 
kids socially. "It usually ends up balancing 
out. It definitely works." 

Success for All runs on a rigid five-day 
schedule that cycles throughout the year. 
On day one, the teacher introduces vocab-
ulary and a story. On day two, the class fin-
ishes the story and participates in vocabu-
lary building activities. Days three and four 
focus mosdy on Meaningful Sentences and 
Adventures in Writing, and on day five the 
class reviews the weekly story and cakes a 
short test. Each activity has a specific time 
limit and structure, described thoroughly 
in the Success for All handbook, and teach-


--- Page 15 ---

ers are expected to adhere to the schedule. I 
student achievement," reads the WMU 
.. Pop in and out of classrooms," Edison's 
N ADDITION TO THE CURRICULUM, Edison 
study, "Edison schools perform at levels 
literature says, "and you'll see the same 
schools have a number of other distinctive 
similar to their host districts but fail co 
structure and routine during these 90 min-
features. The school year is 198 days--18 
make the educational gains Edison admin-
utes." Success for All and Edison, in fact, 
more than the 180 of surrounding dis-
istrators claim." And as the AFT study says, 
require that a multicolored set of five 
trices--and the school day runs about a 
"There are discrepancies between the 
posters outlining the Success for All sched-
half-hour longer than that of most public 
record of Edison schools, as measured by 
ule in great detail be up in every reading 
schools. T he company provides technology, 
standard methods of educational evalua-
classroom. The first few lines of r---..::._ ________ _:.____:_:._ ______ _;;;___: _
_ __ _, tion, and the company's sJ.lcs 
the poster for day one, for 
example, 
read, "Listening 
comprehension-20 minutes; 
Reading together-55 minutes." 

Success for All and Edison rep-
resentatives come around every 
so often with checklists in hand 
to make sure everything is in 
order. 

Despite Success for All's 
unyielding 
structure, 
the 
teacher I talked to said she feels 
like she does have freedom "to 
go out of the box and use cre-
ativity'" at rimes. When I asked 
her in what ways, she was 
~ 
unclear. "We can do special projects now 
and then," she said. But she also said she 
thinks Success for All works very well. "It 
kind of does what it says--success for all." 

In terms of improving test scores, however, 
Success for All has a mixed record. It has 
worked effectively in certain schools, but 
not in others. Gillette said that it works 
well with teachers who have no experience. 
.. You just get told exactly what you're doing 
each day. That's why it can take some of the 
lowest reading scores and move them up to 
the next-to-lowest- which is not unim-
pressive. But it can't move them oftentimes 
from the next-to-lowest to the middle." 

The students in the class I was observ-
ing continued working on Adventures in 
Writing uncil the end of the period. Most 
seemed anxious to leave by then; an hour 
and half of reading is an awful lot to 
demand of an eight-year-old. As the stu-
dents filed out of the room to return to 
their "home bases," the hallways began to 
611 up. Two teachers who passed by me 
were discussing the very same Success for 
activities I had just witnessed. 

too. Every Wintergreen family with a child 
in third grade or higher receives a home 
computer, and reachers receive their own 
laptops. Edison has an intranet system 
called "The Common," over which stu-
dents, teachers, and parents can virtually 
interact. Bernardoni, however, admitted 
that only 80 to 85 percent of families fully 
use the system, because of network over-
crowding. Edison also provides its teachers 
and adminisuators with ongoing training 
in order to help them teach the Edison cur-
riculum. The company provides teachers 
with transportation to Edison camps dur-
ing the summer and to Edison conferences 
during the school year. Edison representa-
tives also visit schools regularly. 

But as districts across the nation 
increasingly jump on the Edison bandwag-
on, Edison's promises of educational 
improvement have yet to be realized. The 
American Federation ofTeachers (AFT) and 
Western Michigan University recently 
released separate srudies claiming that 
Edison schools have not been as beneficial 
as promised. "When it comes to measuring 
presentations and promotional 
materials." 

Edison, of course, dis-
agrees. Its website features Ten 
Fundamentals of its "innovative 
schools" promising "dramatic 
results." Using bUJ..zwords like 
"purpose," "leadership," "expec-
tations," "teamwork," "account-
ability," and "community," the 
company paints itself as radical-
ly experimental. Fundamental 
number one reads, "Edison's 
organizational model is based 
on principles that have been 
shown 
to 
ensure 
effective 
schools." Number four, "Edison is commit-
ted to vital and diverse instructional strate-
gies that encourage innovation and excite-
ment." And number seven, "Parcnership 
schools are technologically rich environ-
ments that prepare students for the work-
places of tomorrow." Edison even has a 
study of its own posted on the website: 
"NEA-Columbia University Study Finds 
Edison Schools a Promising Model for 
Teachers." 

But nothing at Wintergreen seemed 
particularly innovative. Teachers follow 
packaged programs like Success for All 
almost blindly. Gillette thinks chat even if 
Edison's profit motive were in some way 
tolerable, the design and curriculum char 
Edison provides are not worth it. "Their 
design is not even a particularly unique 
design," he said. "Their design is not inno-
vative, their structure is not innovative." 

Ultimately, Edison seems to subscribe ro 
the view of Steve Wilson, the founder of 
Advantage Schools, another private opera-
tor of public schools. Wuson told Th~ Nro• 
l'Orkn- last October, "Teachers have lx'Cn 
• 
ingenious about Edison is that it has the 
make itself look innovative even when it's not. ' 
15 



**The Edison Schools Controversy**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
socialized in schools of education and 
taught to apply their own creativity to a 
problem. That's nice up to a point, but the 
idea that we should have tens of thousands 
of teachers all around the country trying to 
stumble upon the best way to teach reading 
to a first grader is lcind of psychotic, right?" 
Edison, named for the man who experi-
mented with over six thousand filaments in 
his laboratory in order to invent the light 
bulb, ironically takes the power to experi-


ment away from teachers in the classroom. 
What is so ingenious about Edison, 
though, is that it has the capital to make 
itself look innovative, even when it is not. 
"Edison has exaggerated test score gains 
and emphasized favorable comparisons in 
order to show Edison schools in the most 
positive light," reads the AFT report. "In 
fact, if public schools were to usc some of 
Edison's evaluation methods and modes of 
presenting data, they would look a lot bet-
ter, too." Since 1995, Edison has invested 
over $150 million in its II3 schools across 
the nation, supplying them not only with 
neatly packaged school designs, but with a 
built-in public relations machine as well. 
It's what Edison says that matters, not what 
it actually does. "The big issue is they give 
everyone a laptop," said Gillette. "But even 
when they say they give everyone a laptop, 
they don't actually tic it to any pedagogical 
intervention. It's as if that statement alone 
had educational value. You scratch the sur-
face and there's nothing. It plays upon peo-
ple's assumptions about status, and that's 
been their marketing tool." In Edison's 
annual "customer satisfaction" surveys, 90 
percent of parents rate the company A orB, 
while 75 percent of teachers rate the com-
pany B or c. Edison also has a teacher 
turnover rate of twenty-four percent-
almost double the national average. 

AT U.ST FBFEBRUARY'S State of the City 
Address, 
New 
Haven 
mayor John 
DeStefano announced for the first time his 
interest in turning some of the city's 
schools over to Edison. "I would like to see 
an Edison School in New Haven," he told 
the Nnu Havm Registn-. "I think it would 
introduce choice and competition." 

But Edison had been the topic of 
backroom conversations in New Haven 
since Wintergreen opened in 1998, when 
New Haven Superintendent of Schools 


Tus NEW JouRNAL


Regjnald Mayo told The New York Times, 
"This is a chance to take a look at Edison. 
I have played with it and toyed with it. We 
may involve some of our own schools." 
Mayo, in fact, had been talking informally 
with Edison representatives several years 
before about his desire to bring the corpo-
ration into New Have(\. And for Benno 
Schmidt, chairman of Edison, the feeling is 
mutual-he "would be delighted" to sign 1 
contract with New Haven. 

In the midst of an increasingly brutal 
reelection campaign, DeStefano has been 
talking about Edison more frequently. "As 
part of the choice proposal, we wanted to 
explore not just choice curriculum, but 
choice in management models," he said. 
"The issue of Edison Schools has been 
floating around New Haven for a long 
time, and we thought we might consider an 
Edison School or two." DeStefano says that 
Edison can spark competition in ways that 
other schools cannot. "I think that compe-
tition is a good thing," he said, "and I think 
the difference in management styles creates 
a dynamic that makes everybody look at 
what they're doing." Then he added, with a 
wink, "I know that when I'm in an elec-
tion-you know, where I'm running 
against somebody-it makes me focus a lit-
de bit harder." 

But given Wintergreen's record and 
the ongoing national controversy sur-
rounding Edison, the mayor's move is sur-
prising. Gillette cannot understand why 
the mayor even considered Edison. "From 
a rational, analytic perspective it doesn't 
make sense," he said. "From a political per-
spective it must be because there's some sta-
tus attached to a for-profit, or there's some 
other political advantage to being allied 
with [Edison)." But, for both Edison and 
DeStefano, success is more about good PR 
than actual results. And if they can con-
vince everyone that they're on the right 
track, what's behind the sales pitch just 
might not matter. 


**Conservative Compassion**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 18**

W HEN SARA AVU!L TALKS ABOUT BOTSWANA, her voice is bur-
dened by bewilderment and helplessness. The Davenport junior 
spent last summer studying in the sub-Saharan African nation, 
which has a rate of HlV infection well above 30 percent-the high-
est in the world. But even as she rattles off death rates and recounts 
harrowing stories of her encounters with AIDS, she frequendy stops, 
frustrated with her inability to express or confront the magnitude of 
the problem. "People I knew would go to funerals every weekend," 
she remembers. "And even though they would never say that it was 
from AIDs--they always said it was tuberculosis or pneumonia or 
something-you just knew .... " 

After returning to Yale last fall, her sense of paralysis became a 
call to action. Avid scoured the undergraduate community for a 
venue for international AIDS activism with little success. Finally she 
contacted the Center for Interdisciplinary Research on AIDs--only 
to find out that there were "no plans to be involved in any advoca-
cy/activism work in Africa" and that the center's "involvement in 
Africa is minimal at the moment." Ic wasn't until she read a January 
2.8, 2001, article in The New l'Ork Times Magazine called "The 
World's AIDS Crisis is Solvable: Look at Brazil" that Avid realized 
there was a viable avenue for action so close to home. "There was 
one line in the article about Yale owning the patent to an important 
AIDS drug,,. she recalled. So she approached several professors to see 
if anyone knew anything about it, but again came up empty. 

And then the wave hit. 

On February 20, Avid received an e-mail from Marco Simons, 
a third-year Yale law student. The message was simple: Yale owned 
the patent for <4T, a critical and expensive antiretroviral medication 
which impedes the spread of HJV, and a group of srudents was orga· 
nwng tO put pressure on Yale to make the drug available at low-cost 
in South Africa. Simons had heard from a Harvard dassmate-
rutned·AIDS activist, Toby Kasper, who works for the international 
medical aid organization Doctors Without Borders (DWB) and was 
leading the charge to find a cheap source of <4T for South Africa. 
Kasper and his forces had already unsuccessfully appealed to 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, the Manhattan-based pharmaceutical giant 
to which Yale has exclusively licensed rhe production and sale of the 
drug. Now they were turning their attention to Yale itself. 

Simons ended his e-mail with one small request: "For the 
moment, this is not for media consumption." But less than a month 
later, the issue would be making headlines around the world, cui· 
minating on March 15 with a fulsomely congratulatory announce· 
ment by The New l'Ork Times, "Maker Yielding Patent in Africa for 
AIDS Drug." 

D 4T, OR STAVUDINE, constitutes one-third of a drug coc.k:t2i1 
that has proven remarkably successful in treating HIV·posi· 
rive patients. The compound is an antiretroviral, mean· 
ing it prevents HIV from reproduc· 



**Title: Global AIDS activists use Yale to prick the corporate conscience**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ing and delays the onset of AIOS, thereby allowing patients tO sur-
vive for decades after contracting the virus. Though it was first syn-
thesized in a cancer study at the University of Michigan in the 
1960s, interest in <4T was not renewed until the global aids epi-
demic flared up in the 1980s. In 1986, two Yale doctors, William 
Prusoff and Tai-shun Lin, received several million dollars of fund-
ing from the National Institutes of Health and other sources-
Bristol-Myers among them-to investigate whether the compound 
could be used in combating HIV. When experiments in Yale phar-
macology labs proved successful, the University quickly patented 
the compound and sought out a pharmaceutical company to take 
care of the development, marketing, and distribution of the drug. 
Bristol-Myers had "right of first refusal" because of its help funding 
the project, and, naturally, the company jumped at the opportuni-
ty. 

In 1994, <4T hit the shelves under the brand name Zerit. us 
newspapers praised the low cost of the new drug, which would be 
offered at s6 a day. But this still meant that a year's supply of Zerit 
would cost almost $2000, more than the per capita income of 
almost every African nation. 

The high price of AIDS drugs in the developing world has elicit-
ed considerable international attention-and frequent outrage-in 
the past two years. Emotionally charged articles in publications 
from Th~ &oTWmist to Mothn-jones have highlighted the difficulties 
of treating AIDS in poor countries. International NGOs have called 
APRIL 20, 2.001 
Global AIDS 
activists use 
Vale to prick the 
corporate 
conscience 
on the developed world to help provide treatment for HIV-positive 
patients who can't afford the S15,ooo-a-year drug regimen required 
to slow the spread of the virus and the onset of AIDS. The ATOS 
activism group ACT-UP headed a widely publicized campaign of civil 
disobedience at every one of Al Gore's presidential campaign stops 
until he agreed that-contrary to previous statements in which he 
had toed the pharmaceutical company line-there is an urgent need 
for low-cost AIDS drugs in Africa. And, most forebodingly for phar-
maceutical companies, Brazil and India were often pointed to as 
models of how the developing world could deal with the crisis: by 
ignoring patents and allowing cheap generic production of medica-
nons. 

South Africa has been a focal point in the struggle for afford-
able AIDS medication. Not only does it have more cases of HIV than 
any other country, but, unlike most of sub-Saharan Africa, it has 
both a strong patent protection system and sufficient domestic 
infrastructure to develop its own pharmaceutical manufacturing if 
patents allow it-making South Africa a battlefront for corpora-
tions and NGOs. Toby Kasper coordinates ows's "Access to Essential 
Medicines Campaign" in South Africa and has emerged as the 
spokesman and de facto leader of the mix of activists, officials, and 
AIDS patients fighting for drug availability. Last fall, Kasper picked 
out Bristol-Myers as a cargeL He sought to convince the company 
to voluntarily give up their rights to <4T in South Africa in order 
to allow for inexpensive generic production, knowing the effort was 


--- Page 20 ---

quixotic. "Drug companies have always 
tried to protect their patents to the bone," 
he acknowledged. The company's profits 
on the drug exceed s6oo million annually, 
and there had never before been a case 
where a pharmaceutical company had 
given up such a lucrative drug in a protect-
ed market like South Africa. In fact, 
Bristol-Myers is one of 39 international 
drug-makers currently suing the South 
African government for more stringenr 
years, she has worked for an international 
AIDS consortium in England and did 
research for a "60 Minutes" documentary 
on AIDS in Africa, which sent her to a con-
ference in Durbin, South Africa, last sum-
mer. There, she learned about her future 
school's ownership of the <4T patent 
and met Toby Kasper. When Kasper and 
DWB-which won the Nobel Peace Prize in 
1999-set their sights on Yale in January, 
Kapczyski and Simons were the first people 
contacted. 

Kapczynski, who was described by a 
colleague as having "a radical inside 
combined with a very rational 
sense of how to get things 
done," recognized a unique 
opportunity with fur-reach-
ing implications. "Up to now," she 
said, "it's been activists fighting on the 
ground and big corporations making con-
cessions." But in this case, the object of 
pressure was a university rather than a cor-
poration, and for Kapczynski, Kasper, and 
their small squadron of activists, this was 
an essential difference. "Universities ace a 
gt>od point of leverage," Kapczynski 
remarked. "They are an important pressure 
point, in part because they have student 
bodies that care about these things." And, 
patent 
protection-
despite the fucr that sales 
of <4T in the country ace 
virtually nil. 

But <4T was a special 
case: A university, not a 
corporation, 
had 
the 
patent. After a stream of 
letters from DWB begin-
ning 
last 
November, 
Yale and 
Bristol-Myers 
had emerged 
from the fray 
with no sign of 
Injury. 

as Kasper did not hesitate 
to point out to Yale, the 
University has a stated 
objective in patents and 
licensing to "pursue the 
benefit of society in 
general." 

So, the cam-
paign was initially kept 
quiet and private, reflecting 
Simons's belief that "with 
Bristol-Myers passed the 
buck to Yale, which itself profits some $40 
million a year from the drug. So Kasper 
called up his friends in New Haven, sent a 
letter to the University, and set out to per-
suade, pressure, or shame Yale into giving 
up the rights to <4T in South .Aft:ica. 

LIKE AVIEL, Amy Kapczynski, a first-
year law student, hadn't done much in the 
way of AIDS activism at Yale before the 
movement for patent relief shifted its focus 
towards the University. But in the past few 
20 
University politics things tend to get done 
better behind closed doors than in the 
midst of big public campaigns." Instead of 
approaching Yale as they would a corpora-
cion, the coalition treated it as a potencial 
associate. 

"No 
one 
considered 
University an adversary, but really more of 
a cautious partner," Aviel said. "And it was 
our job to capitalize on this partnership." 

In February of this year, all currents of 
the movement were coming together, and 
the point of their convergence was Yale. 
DWB had focused its private and public 
efforts on the University; the issue of 
patents and AIDS drugs was making the 
national editorial pages; and a small but 
informed coalition of students began 
pleading the case to administrators, build-
ing an alliance with aid workers and 
patients who rely on <4T, and directing 
international momenrum into key chan-
nels. "I don't think we can take credit for 
making this happen," said Avid. "It was 
definitely globaJ momentum that we 
directed a little closer to home. We rode the 
wave of activists around the world." 

~ 
ON 
FEBRUARY 14, DWB wrote a letter 
to Jon Soderstrom, the Managing 
Director of 
Office 
for 
Cooperative Research (OCR), which 
oversees patenting and licensing for 
University studies. The letter called for Yale 
to issue DWB a "voluntary license" so that it 
could obtain generic drugs for distribution 
in South Africa. That day, Kasper 
sent another letter to Bristol-
Myers asking the company to sup-
port this request. The Yale students 
also 
wrote 
to 
University 
officials 
and issued a request, 
which was denied, for 
a copy of the Bristol-
Myers licensing agree-
ment. Meanwhile, they were gearing up to 
intensify pressure on Soderstrom, whom 
they expected would not initially grant 
Kasper's request. 

The effort received a boost 
when Cipla, an Indian pharma-
ceutical firm, announced that it 
would produce a generic version of 
d4T and sell it at a remarkable 1.5 percent 
of the cost of Zerit. Thus, when Yale did 
respond to DWB on February 28--claiming, 
according to Kasper, "chat they couldn't do 
anything" because of their exclusive license 
with Brisrol-Myers-che issue was no 
longer quiet. The day before, Kasper and 
other representatives of DWB had visited 
Yale, issuing a public challenge to the 
University for the first time. 

From this point until the March 14 
announcement by Bristol-Myers, exacdy 
what transpired between the University 


--- Page 21 ---

and the pharmaceutical company is con-
fined to speculation. Kapczynski called the 
negotiations "a murky procession 
of events." The public request by 
OWB elicited a tentative endorse-
ment from Or. Prusoff, who still 
does pharmacology research at 
Yale. "This was not something 
I've worried 
about before," 
Prusoff admitted. "But the prob-
lem was clearly presented." On 
March 9, DWB sent a second letter 
to Soderstrom. T he message, 
according to Kasper, was simple: 
"If you are following your own 
licensing policy, you should do 
something about <4T prices in 
South Africa." In an appeal to the 
ocR's profit-making focus, the 
letter also pointed out that Yale 
national event raised the bar for Bristol-
Myers and Yale: The drug manufacturer 
had almost nothing to lose fman-
Amy Kapczynskl 
cially in granting a voluntary 
license for d4T. 

T he issue had also been picked up by 
GESO, Yale's incipient graduate student 
union, after Fran Balamuth, an MDIPHD 
student in immunobiology, brought the 
issue to the attention of the coordinating 
committee. For her, the controversy was 
about researchers' rights. "D4T is intimate-
_ly connected with what [GESO is] fighting 
for," she maintained. "For a long time, 
GESo's been talking about the role of cor-
porations in determining research and 
where it goes." The union created a peti-
tion calling for the release of the c4T 
patent in South Africa and mobilized its 
sprawling grassroots network. Within a 
matter of days, Balamuth and others had 
collected over 6oo signatures-including 
one from Prusoff, the drug's inventor. 

However, contrary to the accounts of GESO 
activists, Soderstrom claims he never actu-
ally saw the petition until after the 
decision was made. 

As both the public and private 
campaigns 
continued, Soderstrom 
remained quiet. For the students and DWB, 
this seemed a sign of dubious activity on 
the part of Yale and Bristol-Myers. 
Kapczynsk.i and Simons were prepared co 
escalate public pressure when the student 
body returned to campus after spring 
break. At this point, another inter-
APRIL 20, 2001 
Merck announced that it would sell its 
AIDS drugs at cost in South Africa. This 
was unknown territory for the industry, 
but once it had made the step, it could 
only move forward. 

Public pressure reached a critical 
point on March 12 when Th~ N~ l'Ork 
Times printed an article on Yale's unwill-
ingness to relax the <4T patent in South 
Africa. Even Prusoff, who remains one of 
Yale's most reliable supporters on this issue 
and who shares in the pharmaceutical 
company's profits from c4T, points to the 
public relations nightmare conjured up by 
the article. "The most important thing was 
when Th~ Nnu York Tim~s picked up that 
article and brought that forward," he spec-
ulated. "I think that was a major factor in 
stimulating discussion between the Yale 
administrators and Bristol-Myers." 

Kasper 
agrees 
with 
this 
appraisal. "There was the 
article, and voila, things 
worked out. I don't 
think it was just coinci-
dence."' 

Soderstrom, however, 
maintains that these external fac-
tors had little persuasive effect. 
"Bristol-Myers was correct in saying that 
were certain things they couldn't 
do without our permission," he said. "Both 
they and the University moved at light-
speed to make this change." 

And as co criticisms that Yale 
refused to ever make publicly 
available the discussion with 
Bristol-Meyers and the contract 
itself? Soderstrom defends the 
decision as typical business pol-
icy. "The fact that we don't 
negotiate things like this in 
public says that's not the way 
you get things done in corpora-
tions. We didn't have all the 
answers, and we needed time to 
talk 
Bristol-Myers. We 
weren't forced to do anything 
we didn't want to do." Yale and 
were 
simply 
"moving at the speed of busi-
ness," and in mid-March, the 
process proved fruitful. 

0 
MARcH 14, Yale and Bristol-Myers 
Squibb issued simultaneous press releases: 
The University, expressing its pride at hav-
ing "helped prolong the lives of so many 
who suffer from AIDs," said 
that it had removed all obsta-
cles preventing Bristol-Myers 
from making <4T available at 
low cost in South Africa; Bristol-
Myers, for its part, announced that it 
would make Zerit and Vide.x, another 
AIDS medicine, available below cost · 
not try to prevent cheaper generic ver-
sions of the drugs from being produced, 
imported, and sold in South Africa. "The 
company," the announcement proudly 
proclaimed, "has no other patent rights in 
Africa which it will allow to prevent AIDS 
therapy there." 

Headlines around the world 
cheered the unprecedented move, 
lauding both the University and 
Bristol-Myers. Yale enthusiastically 
patted the company on the back. 
"Bristol-Myers came up with a more com-
prehensive and far-reaching solution than 
any other pharmaceutical company," said 
Soderstrom. 

"This is 
unprecedented 
change, and they should be applauded for 
that." In this age of compassionate conse~-
21 



**A Little Off the Top**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
haircuts • updos • colors • hilites 
22 
Jonathan Edwards College 
salutes 
Our Graduating 
Seniors 
We will miss you and wish you 
good health & good luck


**Yale and Bristol-Myers Squibb: A Postmortem**
**Author: Daniel Kurt-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

vacism, the <4T announcement was the 
perfect plug: industry, government, NCO, 
and academy working rogether and ignor-
ing self-imerest co find a humanitarian 
solution ro an international problem. And 
Yale and Bristol-Myers had emerged from 
the fray with no sign of injury: Neither had 
actually forfeited anything in the way of 
profits, they had avoided a potencial PR 
debacle, and, in the process, chey had taken 
the issue away from the activist communi-
ty. In a March 19 op-ed in Th~ Nnv York 
Ttm~s. Or. Prusoff concluded, "I find ic 
hard to see any pattern in all chis, except 
perhaps chat there is a moral urge among 
people that, however coincidentally, can 
sometimes bring results." 

Ac Yale, meanwhile, student interest in 
the issue was coming to 
a peak. 
Kapczynski, Simons, Avid, and a number 
of ocher students planned a "reach-in" to 
educate beyond the headlines. On April 2, 
over 250 students, professors, and other 
members of che community crowded into a 
room in Linsly-Chiccenden Hall. The 
speakers represented every element of the 
struggle chat had led co the Yale-Bristol-
Myers decision. Kasper spoke on the pan-
demic in Africa, highlighting the need for 
affordable medicine. HIV-positive South 
African activists added a personal note. 
Asia Russell, who works for ACT-UP 
Philadelphia, accused the us of "driving a 
coalition which was actually killing people 
with AIDS" and denounced this "state-sanc-
tioned genocide," proclaiming, "They did 
chis because we demanded it." Balamuth 
discussed Yale's patenting and licensing 
policy, calling for a greater role for 
researchers in such decisions, and high-
lighting GESO's commitment co the issue. 
Kapczynski matter-of-faccly described the 
negotiations process. The lefty crowd, 
arriving lace from the most recent anti-Free 
Trade Area of the Americas protest, extend-
ed an open invitation to the AIDS activists 
to join them on a trip to Quebec City for 
the April 2.0 anti-globalization protest. 
There was a dizzying array of "actions" to 
take, wcbsices to consult, lists co sign, and 
people co contact. But even as the offshoots 
of the original campaign multiplied, those 
initially involved were not sure what their 
next step should be. 


IN 
THE MONTH SINCE Yale and Bristol-
Myers made their announcement, the 
effects have rippled. Yale has pledged its 
continued commitment to improving 
access to AIDS treatinent in Africa: At an 
open forum in early April, 
~ 
President Richard 
Levin 
called for "a significant effort 
by Yale to help train people 
to administer 
[d4T) 
in 
Africa" and claimed, ''I'm 
very committed to this." 
CESO has kicked off an effort 
to give researchers more 
voice in how their discoveries 
are patented and licensed. 
Student radicals have added 
access to AIDS medicine to 
their agenda. The media's 
fascination with AIDS in 
Africa has become, if any-
thing, more intense; a recent 
lead article in Th~ Nnu York Dr. Prusoff 
Ttm~s highlighted the continued problem 
of access to essential medicines, issuing an 
implicit calJ to sustained action. Students 
at other major universities--most notably 
the University of Minnesota, which licens-
es the patent for another important AIDS 
drug to GlaxoSrnithKline--have raken up 
the sort of fight first seen at Yale last 
month. And in early April, at the behest of 
UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, six 
major pharmaceutical 
firms-Bristol-
Myers Squibb, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, 
Abbott, Hoffinan-Laroche, and Boehringer 
Ingelheim-dedared their commitment to 
lowering prices and malcing AIDS drugs 
more widely available and affordable in the 
neediest portions of the developing world. 
But the people who hastened the 
change at Yale are cautious in their celebra-
tion. In fact, at this point, they are not even 
sure what the decision meant. "We don't 
know what the outcome is," Kapczynslci 
admitted. T he OCR has only said chat it 
amended the licensing agreement with 
Bristol-Myers. "An exclusive license ensures 
that a company is diligent in marketing a 
product and doesn't just put it on the 
shelf. • Soderstrom explained. "In order to 
do this, certain restrictions are put on the 
agreement-we had to remove those 
restrictions." Bristol-Myers, in addition to 
APRIL :2.0, :2.001 
offering drugs to UNAIDS and the World 
Health Organization at a reduced (but still 
far higher than generics) cost, has merely 
pledged not to fight back if the patent is 
violated. "This is a big step forward and it 
has a lot of possibili-
ty," Kasper said. "But 
drug companies often 
make very grandiose 
announcements and 
don't do anything on 
the ground." 

For the moment, 
Kapczynslci, Simons, 
Avid, and ocher con-
cerned students are 
taking minor steps 
and doing their best 
to get their bearings. 
They are examining 
"the systematic prob-
lem of research being 
so closely tied to corpo-
rate interests", convening a forum (with 
some coaxing by the dean of the law 
school) to educate themselves on how the 
licensing process works, and in the prelim-
inary stages of creating some sore of 
University-wide AIDS coalition. Still, Avid 
said, "None of us know exactly how chis 
works or where it's going." And Kapczynski 
warned, "A lot of forruitious things worked 
together to make this successful, but the 
more this becomes replicable, the more 
resistance there will be." 
Amy Kapczysnlci, Marco Simons, and 
Sara Avid alighted on a wave of interna-
tional momenrum and directed it closer to 
home. Now, the wave is mosdy past them. 
But they all realize that "on the ground" 
nothing yet has been gained. And though 
all of this started on the ground, no one 
knows if that's where it will end. 
1111 
Daniel Kurtt-Ph~lan, a sophomo" in 
&rluky Co/kg~. is a managing ~ditor for 
TNJ. 


**Title: Trains potting**
**Author: Linda Rosenbury**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I take the Metro-North train from New Haven to New York at least 
four times a semester . 

This semester, I decided to get off the 
train at every stop and explore each town until the next train carne 
one hour later. 

I brought my camera and shot about one roll at each 
town. I was attracted to slippages in time, the kind of photographs 
that could have been taken any time in the last four decades. 
Even 
as I wrote the name of the city on each canister of film, I knew I 
could not capture a town in one hour and thirty-six photographs. 

After photographing seven towns, I realized that I was drawn the 
most to New Haven's three closest towns -Milford, Stratford, and 
Bridgeport. 

I went back again and again, intrigued by their close 
proximity to and distance from my life at Yale. 

I revisited my 
favorite things, like the mancoon cat that lived in the gun shop in 
Stratford and the abandoned storefronts in Bridgeport. 

I made 
friends and began to feel like an insider in these towns. 

Now it 
makes more sense to me that I am registered to vote in Connecticut. 

Stratford, 10:06 a.m. 


Bridgeport, 12:25 p.m . 


Milford, 
APRIL 20, 2001 
11:12 a.m. 

Stratford, 9:45 a.m. 



**Title: The Dean's Thing**
**Author: Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A NNE BoGART WANTS ro BE DEAN oF THE YALE ScHOOL OF DRAMA. 
After a day packed with a Master's Lunch, a Master's Tea, and a lecture and 
dinner sponsored by the Dramat, she seems too tired to hide her desire for 
the position. "This is the only position I would consider any place in the 
United States. There's no. other institution I )VOuld have been interested in," 
she reveals. She sips her coffee and, sighlng, admits to the feelings that arose 
as she walked past the University Theatre and the Yale Repertory Theatre to 
the coffee shop. ''I'm disappointed that the searchers were not more adven-
turous." 

Bogart is not some forlorn dreamer who has set her sights too high. She is 
the artistic director of New York's Saratoga International Theatre Institute (szn) 
and an associate professor of directing at Columbia University. She directed her 
first play, Eugene Ionesco's The Bald Soprano, at the age of fifteen. Her method 
.of theatrical training, known as Viewpoints, is extremely influential in the the-
ater world. She has received two Obies and a Guggenheim Fellowship, among 
other awards. Robert wildman, managing director of The Connecticut 
Repertory Theatre and former marketing director of the Drama School and 
the Yale Rep.calls her "a brilliant theater artist." And she was a candidate 
ten years ago when the last search for a Drama School dean took place. 

But Bogart has not been offered the position. While her ideas 
about theater and the changes necessary within the Drama 
School's programs set her apart from many of the other candi-
dates, a much more striking difference has become apparent 
in the last three months-unlike Bogart, most of the other 
theater luminaries recommended by the search committee to 
President Richard Levin don't actually want the job. Two, 
Oskar Eustis and Jon Jory, have already turned it down; two 
others, Mark Lamos and JoAnne Akalaitis, withdrew themselves 
from the short list because they weren't interested. The outgoing dean 
has been forced to plan a theater season of which he may not be a part, and 
he may need to remain at Yale for an extra year as the University scrambles to 
find a replacement. Because of a decline in the Rep's popularity and a drop in the Drama 
School's reputation, the search is much more difficult than it has ever been. While a for-
ward-thinlcing artist like Bogart might be just what the Drama School needs, financial con-
cerns make such a daring choice uncomfortable. At the same time, many of those who 
could help the institution regain its standing are reluctant to come to New Haven. 


O
n April25, 2000, after two five-year terms, Stan Wojewodslci Jr. announced that he 
would be stepping down from his position as dean of the Yale School of Drama and artis-
tic director of the Yale Repertory Theatre at the end of the school year. President Levin 
quickly appointed an eight-person search committee charged with interviewing candi-
dates and submitting a list of recommendations. "It was dear to me from the beginning 
that the intent was to try to have someone here by the end of the calendar year," explains 
committee member Gary Haller, a professor of chemical engineering and master of 
Jonathan Edwards College. If a new dean were not hired by January 2001, many wor-
ried that the planning of the Rep's 2001-2002 season would be delayed. The commit-
tee worked through the summer, contacting potential candidates and reporting back 
to other committee members. "Nobody could accuse us of not hearing from 
everybody," says Haller. "The amount of input was Larger than it has been 
on any other dean search committee I've been on. We tried to hear from 
all components of the academic drama and the professional drama 
communities." Still, the search tearh did have its own idea of 
what they were loolcing for: "The hope was that we could fmd 
some person who had professional achievement as a direc-
tor, a playwright, choreographer, or something like 
that, and had had some academic interaction as well," 
says Haller. "Not only should the person actually work 
professionally but they should also have a sense of man-
agement so that they can manage not only the repertory 
theater part of it but also the academic programs." Although 
some committee members were unsure of Bogart's managemenr skills, she 
made the short List. 


THROUGHOUT THE FALL, the potential 
deans carne to New Haven for interviews. 
Two of the top candidates, Akalaitis of 
Bard College and Lamos, formerly of the 
Hartford Stage, quickly bowed out. Both 
apparendy decided that they didn't want to 
become academic administrators. "I'm not 
sure I want to be the dean of anything, 
although I think the Yale School of Drama 
is very important and it is essential that 
they find a wonderful person," explains 
Akalaitis. 

In both her interviews, in September 
and November, Bogart articulated a vision 
for the Drama School and the Rep that 
involved huge changes. "I said that I didn't 
think that the Rep should be a regional the-
ater anymore, but that it should be an 
international theater," Bogart recalls. 

"I wanted to radically change the kind of 
training for actors and directors. The train-; 
ing would be influenced from ocher cul-
tures throughout the world. Actors would 
not necessarily be trained for the regional 
theater, bur would train, in a way, to be 
'poets of the theater' with physical and 
vocal virtuosity and rigor." 

In December, the committee met with 
Levin. According to Haller, "essentially the 
work of the whole committee was con-
veyed to the president." The final decision 
was left to Levin himsel£ According co 
sources, the top choices were Oskar Eustis, 
artistic director of Triniry Repertory 
Company of Providence and former head 
of the Eureka Theatre Company in San 
Francisco, and Jon Jory, former artistic 
director of the Actors Theatre of Louisville 
and a founder of New Haven's own Long 
WharfThearre. Bogart was apparendy roo 
radical for the staid Drama School: .. [Their 
choice was] essentially an articulation of a 
very different concept of theater," Bogart 
says. "It became dear that I was not what 
they were looking for." Phone calls between 
New 
Haven 
and 
Providence 
commenced-Eustis was the first choice for 
the position. On December 21, the 
Hartford Courant ran the headline "Trinity 
Rep Director Likely Yale Successor." The 
short article included only the unsourced 
assertion of the likelihood of Eustis's selec-
tion as dean and a summary of his career. 

T he leak of Eustis's name would make the 
replacement process infinitely more diffi-
cult. 

LE SEARCH quickly became as much a 
matter for the press as for President Levin. 
The Courant continued to cover the story, 
while the Providmce Journal took up the 
question even more intensely. On January 
13, it confirmed that the job had been 
offered to Eustis, posing the question "Will 
Oskar Leave?" to its readers, and fretting 
that "being head of a top company such as 
Trinity is an important post, but Chief at 
Yale? That is a world-class position." 

This commotion surrounding the cur-
rent process contrasts sharply with the 1990 
search that resulted in Wojewodski's 
appointment. In that search, newspaper 
stories included all the names being thrown 
around and suggested that the 
process was moving forward too slowly, 
but the selection of Wojewodski was kept 
under wraps until officially revealed by 
Wojewodski ~d the University. According 
to Wildman, who had to handle the 
University's announcement of the hiring, "I 
was only cold a week before the announce-
ment . . . The process was almost entirely 
leak-free." Bogart, a candidate at the rime, 
confirms this. "That was done very effec-
tively, particularly as it was announced. I 
don't think there was much buzz at all 
beforehand." 

In 2000, press leaks changed the 
dynamics of the situation entirely. Now, 
Yale was at a disadvantage-any potential 
candidates knew that they were not Yale's 
first choice, information that was bruising 
to theater-sized egos. According to Haller, 
"It's turned into such a public search that 
now everybody's gun-shy. I'm convinced 
that the reason we lost one of our candi-
dates had to be one of the publications." 

While Haller, as a member of the search 
committee, is not allowed to comment on 
specific candidates, sources speculate char 
Jon Jory, the second choice for the dean-
ship, turned the position down because he 
discovered that Eustis was the first choice. 

Both the city of Providence and Eustis 
himself used the increased media attention 
to their advantage. For Providence, the cov-
erage helped keep Eustis in town. "One 
thing is for sure," the Journal wrote. 
"If Eustis leaves, it would have a major 
impact on Rhode Island's arts scene. Not 
only has his regime seen Trinity go from 
oceans of red ink to black, it has seen a revi-
talizing of the mission of the old theater .. . 
Eustis has had a remarkable reign here. He 
has matched up with this community bet-
ter than any other artistic leader I've seen in 
25 years covering the arts. He has placed 
Rhode Island back on the map and it will 
be a shame if he moves on." The paper's




**Title: The Yale Rep's Decline and the Search for a New Dean**
**Author: Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
coverage also reminded Eustis of past 
promises: "2.132 years ago, he volunteered 
co [article writer Bill Gale] in an interview 
that he had pledged to stay at Trinity for 
five more years, to see through the upgrad-
ing he was beginning. You don't have to 
have gone to Yale University to see that half 
that commitment remains." 

However, the benefits of the publicity 
to Eustis were even more immediate. 
Bogart sums it up: "He used [the media 
coverage] brilliantly. It was a great political 
act." According to the jouma4 Trinity's 
board "met with Eustis after he had talked 
with Yale," agreed to an early contractual 
salary increase, "and recommitted their 
support of some of his favorite projects at 
the theater, including higher salaries for 
actors and others, more warehouse and 
shop space, a program with Brown 
University, and an increased emphasis on 
Trinity's training arm, the conservatory." 

The public relations bonanza provided by 
the newspaper coverage was topped off by 
a press conference at which Eustis 
announced that he would not be accepting 
the job from Yale. "It is unusual for some-
body to publicly announce that they're 
declining an offer," observes H aller. This 
peculiar PR choice was accompanied by an 
attempt to play up the importance of his 
current job. He said that he hoped his 
rejection of Yale would "let a lot of people 
here recognize that we have a national 
jewel, one of the top places in the country." 

While an early salary increase may 
seem to be a strong benefit of the media 
coverage, sources say Yale was offering even 
more. A more important advantage is 
revealed by Eustis's language at the press 
conference, in his previous words regarding 
the Trinity Repertory Company, and in the 
projects to which his board recommitted. 
At the press conference, Eustis observed, 
"The [Trinity] conservatory is very good 
now, but in five years I want people rurn-
ing down Julliard, Yale, and NYU to come 
here." By connecting Brown to Trinity in 
the same way that Yale is connected to the 
Yale Rep, Eustis hopes to move his theater 
into Yale's place at the top of the American 
theater scene, a goal he set at the start of his 
tenure. 

Eustis's CONTENTION IS SIMPLE: "Yale 
Rep is not a better theater than Trinity 
Rep." While Yale's offer of the deanship to 
Eustis may have inadvertently strengthened 
one the University's competitors in the 
world of drama, many remain skeptical 
about 
Eustis's 
statements. 
Wildman 
believes that "five years is an awfully short 
timetable to get from nowhere on the map 
to the top of the map. I think it's entirely 
possible that they could emerge as another 
exciting program, but that quickly, I don't 
know." Still, many already see the transi-
tion taking place. "[Trinity is] in better 
shape than the Yale Rep," believes Bogart. 
"Oskar's put it back on the map." 

More importantly, many say Yale's rep-
utation bas declined overall. "As in any the-
ater school, it has its ups and downs, and I 
think it's more in a down than an up right 
now," says Bogart. "Probably the strongest 
program is design, and I think that people 
will go for management and take it serious-
ly, and dramaturgy bas a good reputation, 
and technical theater has a great £eputa-
tion, but the rest of the school and the Rep 
have slipped." The committee was also 
concerned about just such a slip. "The 
committee certainly was not unaware of 
the perception about the stature of the 
school and repertory theater and certainly 
... subscription rates to the Yale Rep have 
declined," admits Haller. "In a competitive 
sense, the school wasn't 100 percent the 
way people wanted it. There was a dear


**Title: WONDER WOMEN?**
**Author: Victoria Lyall**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I AM A WOMAN IN MY FINAL YEAR AT YALE. Today is Friday and by Monday everything will be 
different. Not different in a little way, but rest-of-your-life different. Suddenly, living a life in 
Manhattan on $10,000 is a possible concern, and then comes the next six months ... the demands 
of graduate school, jobs, careers, life. This is my future, and it's 
standing outside, if I'll only let it in. I keep hoping that 
maybe along with my diploma, Dick will hand me an 
instruction booklet: 
Dear Graduate, Welcome to your life post-Yale! Our 
first step is to contact all those successful Yale alumni, 
who will instruct you further on how to attain ultimate 
happiness and fulfillment both professionally AND emo-
tionally ... Worry not: Those $120,000 were well-invested. 
But life is more complicated than that. And I am per-
plexed. In a small English-language bookstore in Paris last 
spring, I found a beat-up copy of The Feminine Mystique. 
Living in Paris, reading Friedan, I wondered where I would be in 
a year, five years. Where would we all be in five years? I 
became so interested in these questions that, like 
any good Yale student, I decided to write my 
senior essay about them. But my essay does not 
address issues of the future for every Yale gradu-
ate. I am not Everyman; I am one woman. 
Therefore I chose to look at one specific group: 
Yale women. 

Thirty years after the explosion of feminism, 
millions of women struggle to balance a professional 
career and a stable family. The question is no longer 
whether to do one or the other, but how to do both. 
Women of my generation have found that it is now their turn 
to ask themselves this question. A Yale woman's identity is in 
flux, its nature discussed daily in dorm rooms, apartments, bars, 
dining halls, and classrooms. We think both long and short-term 
and wonder where to anchor our identities. I and every other woman 
I know stand at this edge, asking ourselves, "How do I come to decide 
what makes life worthwhile?" 

The history of women at Yale has been one of stops and starts. Back in 
1783, Ezra Stiles wrote up a sheepskin parchment for one of his private female 
students, noting that were it not for her sex she would surely have been a member of the Yale 
freshman class. In 1886, another ambitious woman applied to Yale Law School. She was admitted 
and managed to graduate, narrowly escaping the wrath of the Yale Corporation, which quickly 
instituted a rule that no woman could belong to any class save the ones already enrolled in the School 
of Arts and Sciences. So, for 268 years of Yale College's illustrious history no woman roamed its hallowed 
halls until the "experiment" of 1969. 580 women were selected from an applicant pool of 5,000 to be the 
first female Yalies. La creme de la creme, ma cherie. Lauded as "superwomen", they were photographed end-
lessly by The New York Times, Newsweek, Look, and Life, not to mention all the women's magazines that spec-
ulated about their dating lives in full-page spreads. That spring, as Kingman Brewster uttered the tradition-
al Yale promise to graduate the next "1000 male leaders of the future", for the first time dissension was heard 
among the ranks. 


For the class of 2004, 6549 women and 
6338 men applied, yet there was a 16.6 per-
cent admission rate for men, versus only 15 
percent for women. The final class standing 
is 674 men and 678 women. The unequal 
rate of admission is done to compensate for 
the higher matriculation rate among 
women. Old Blue wants to keep things bal-
anced- and rightfully so. However, my 
point is, it's damn hard to get into Yale and 
it's even harder if you're a girl. 

In a 1987 article entitled "The Next 
Steps for the Superwomen," the Yale 
Alumni Magazine explored the fate of 
female Yalies after graduation: "The possi-
bility that these extraordinary young 
women might become leaders-the con-
ventional destiny of their male classmates 
for centuries--[then] seemed more remote. 
It is now taken for granted." We are all, 
men and women, trained to be "super." We 
look at the admission rates and our jaws 
drop-how did I make it here? To be a Yale 
graduate is something momentous. But my 
question is, how is it different for a 
woman? 

Every senior woman I know struggles 
with the idea of being a leader. We reach 
out to each other and talk, as if by talking 
we can sort through the messiness of all 
that awaits us in the real world. Some of us 
construct elaborate life plans: "Live in New 
York two years, grad school, marry around 
28 (don't want to be tied down too early), 
kid by 32, three years off, and back to 
work." Others live more in the moment: "I 
don't think in long term, only short term. I 
go from today to tomorrow and maybe to 
the next six months but can't really think 
beyond that, you know?" Some grapple 
with social conventions: "Yeah, I wanna get 
married. Marriage may be a societal con-
struction but it's one that I have bought 
completely." Or: "You know, the more I 
think about it, all I am doing is biding time 
till I can actually have a family. I know I am 
completely shunning the feminist doc-
trine; we are supposed to go out and take on 
the world, but what if I just want to have 
kids?" 

Most of the women I interviewed 
wanted it all. They don't want to enter the 
work force; they want to lead the work 
force. They want to find loving partners 
and have happy, fulfilling lives. As we make 
decisions about next year, the year after, the 
next five to ten years, we wonder how all 
the pieces of this puzzle will come together. 
APRIL 20, 2001 
Or if they will come together. I worry 
about how to balance ambition and life's 
realities. I worry about loving someone in 
L.A. from my apartment in Manhattan. I 
leave you with the voices of four Yale 
women who are facing the same difficul-
ties. In their voices anxiety and optimism, 
ambition and practicality, coexist as equal 
partners of a Yale woman's identity. Their 
openness and honesty have helped me 
define my own dilemma. 

I want great kids, I want to have a fab-
ulous relationship with my husband, and I 
want to be the best in my field. Maybe I could 
accept being topped by the Brits, no, wait, I 
want to be the best in my field. It may not 
happen because it may entail more sacrifice 
than I am willing to make, but in an ideal 
world that's what I want. 

I guess for me, success entails not only 
being happy and having a great family but 
also achieving a certain level in my career. If 
I'm 
a world-renowned doctor but had sac-
rificed marriage and family, and were mis-
erable, I wouldn't consider that success. But neither 
would I consider it success if I were simply 
a happy housewife. 

I thought I just wanted to be a high 
school science teacher- but that is not some-
thing you do when you go to Yale. Unless you 
do teach for America for a couple years and 
then you go to law school. Definitely people 
have this view that if you go to Yale you have 
to make something of it-you can't just be a 
housewife or something. You have to do some-
thing with that degree . . . I have very con-
flicting feelings about it . . . I don't need to 
have some big powerful career and I just want 
to do something that makes me happy. But 
then the other side of me is like but you went 
to Yale and you should use that .... 

I think that's why I've struggled for the 
past year and a half ... everyone is asking 
you, "so what are you going to be doing 
now?" And I'm expected to have an answer; I 
expect an answer-from myself ... And especially 
coming out of Yale the expectation that you're 
going to do something incredible. A lot of people 
don't know what they're going to do and 
they're just trying to find themselves and 
maybe there is nothing wrong with that. ... 

Victoria Lyall, a senior in Pierson College, 
is on the staff of TNJ.


**Title: Looking for America**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 36**

FIFTEEN HUNDRED years ago, Afghan artisans 
in Bamiyan began carving away at a 
mountainside with hammer and chisel. 
Last month, soldiers from the Taliban 
regime finished the job with explosives, 
destroying the two colossal Buddhas left by 
their predecessors. The world-especially 
the West-was dumbfounded at the 
Afghans' defiant act of desecration. Ever 
since 1793, when the French made the 
Louvre palace into the people's museum, 
art preservation has been a chief public 
project of Western democracies; to do the 
opposite is to proclaim one's own bar-
barism. This notion has never been lost on 
Americans, who, like skilled curators 
throughout history, have always used art to 
make the state look good. Museums tradi-
tionally divide their galleries by national 
school, and our own museums are no 
exception in shining the brightest spotlight 
on our native achievements. Therefore, the 
recent reopening of the remodeled 
American galleries at the Yale University 
Art Gallery, a point of Yale pride as the 
country's oldest college art museum, was, 
like many Yale events, an occasion for gra-
tuitous self-congratulation. This is the 
story of how we came to the top, and we're 
proud of it. 

For narrative effect, it's best to view 
the collection starting at the back, among 
the colonial and early national works of the 
Trumbull gallery. Most prominent is John 
Trumbull's history cycle depicting the 
Revolutionary War. The display marks our 
national inception, but one can't help but 
feel that, as a nation, we got a rather silly 
start. What we see is a secular apotheosis of 
George Washington. The general is at once 
a Christ figure, ascending to the heavens 
buoyed by the heroic cherubim under-
neath, and a cock-sure actor taking his final 
bows: He strides out of the gigantic central 
portrait while the war's supporting charac-
ters golf-clap appreciatively in the wings. 
But the theatricality of the project seems 
amateurish now-it's only myth, and sec-
ond-rate myth at that. Knowing what we 
know now of their slaves and their sexual 
peccadilloes, we can't help but feel an ado-
lescent awkwardness in the proto-national-
ist posturing of the Founding Fathers. 

Things just haven't turned out as they 
planned. 

For 
centuries, 
the 
name 
Agincourt was capable of rousing English 
pride; and the French still rally around the 
Bastille every July; but we are more likely to 
pinch our noses as we pass through 
Trenton, New Jersey, than to cross our 
hearts in memory of that glorious victory. 

The gallery captures Trumbull's time 
and its attitudes perfectly. Though we can 
today see past the spectacle, Trumbull and 
his peers were not disingenuous when they 
cast Trenton as the new Troy. A bust of 
Trumbull himself surveys the gallery, along 
with Thomas Crawford's busts of Homer, 
Demosthenes, and Cicero; their presence 
equates Trumbull's achievements with their 
own. 

Centrally 
located 
is 
Thomas 
Greenough's statue of The Angel Abdiel, 
seemingly advancing towards the New 
World. One almost hears echoes of 
Milton's praise following behind, applying 
equally to angel and revolutionary: Having 
fought the better fight, each now stand 
approved in sight of God, though worlds 
judged them perverse. The wall opposite 
Washington is occupied by portraits of the 
righteous (if misproportioned) worthies of 
Trumbull's time. Many of the works are 
Grand Tour portraits with the ruins of the 
Old World set as a backdrop, a powerful 
symbol of the American promise to rebuild 
the Western ideal from its current degener-
ate state. Even Ezra Stiles is here, standing 
before his bookcase in fuller possession of 
the Western tradition than any Oxford 
don. Taking it all in, the viewer is struck 
with wonder at the early nation's artistic 
project: We see here the artful but unmis-
takable extension of the young nation's 
middle finger, a gesture of contemptuous 
pride directed to the Old Country mon-
archs. One cannot help but nod in 
approval. 

As we pass into the colonial decorative 
arts galleries, the atmosphere is no longer 
that of a princely gallery, but your great-
great-grandfather's attic. The contrast bal-
ances our forefathers' idealized self-portrait 
with a snapshot of who they actually were. 
Most striking is the central display of colo-
nial chairs which matches Trumbull's histo-
ry cycle: Here we see the apotheosis of the 
joint-stool, circa 1715, artist unknown. The 
stool evokes far more pathos than 
Trumbull's grandstanding generals ever 
will, embodying the humble origins of 
America's rough-hewn, democratic genius. 

These two models remain consistent 
throughout the rest of the collection: The 
picture gallery is an aesthete's delight, while 
the peripheral decorative arts galleries pro-
vide a more sober sense of historical reso-
nance. Albert Bierstadt's painting of 
America's finest cathedral, Yosemite Valley, 
is expertly placed to capture our attention 
as we leave the furniture behind and seem-
ingly venture out of doors into the natural 
light of the grand salon, streaming through 
the newly uncovered skylights in the roof. 
Unfortunately, the curators have not taken 
full advantage of the spectacular views cre-
ated along the room's side corridors. Joseph 
Stella's Brooklyn Bridge, the 20th century's 
answer to Bierstadt's natural cathedral, 
should hang on the far wall behind it. 
Instead, it is on one of the shorter central 
walls; the connection is lost and the viewer 
is unable to stand back and take it all in. 
The corridor view presents us only with a 
decidedly un-epic piece by Edward 
Hopper, and the line of sight is broken by 
a group of statues by Thomas Eakins. 
Hiram Powers's rarified Greek Slave is simi-
larly 
crowded 
by 
display 
of 
Pennsylvania Dutch ironworks in the back-
ground, overflowing from the colonial dec-
orative arts galleries. Seen from the side, 
she is caged by the sandstone columns 
uncovered during the renovation, and this 
view would be enough to make Elizabeth 
Barrett Browning compose a second sonnet 
in her honor. By far the best-placed object 
is the gilded bronze American Eagle, 
perched on high and visible across the 
gallery from the entrance, a glorious 
reminder of the first battles that made this



**Title: The American Galleries at the Yale University Art Gallery**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The American galleries at the Yale University Art Gallery 
all possible. Although his gold leaf has 
flaked off in the perilous fight, like the flag 
he is emphatically still there. 
Bierstadt's Yosnniu Valky, like the 
works in the Trumbull gallery, bears wit-
ness to the continuing king-of-the-moun-
tain battle between Europe and America to 
the peak of the Western tradition. But even 
in the paintings of the Hudson River 
School, whose artists rejected the monu-
ments of classical Europe in favor of the 
natural beauty of God's canvas, the 
European aesthetic still rules: Yosemite is 
_beautiful not so much in itself, but because 
it outdoes Chartres in majesty. Even among 
the genre scenes of cranberry gatherers and 
the still lives of the American flora the fig-
ure of the glorious European dandy still 
lurks here in the work of Thomas 
Horenden. As we come nearer to the pre-
sent, the line between European and 
American art blurs further as the very best 
American city-, sea-, and landscapes-all 
in the style of the Impressionists---cover 
the gallery walls. 

The decorative arts galleries present a 
narrative that likewise drifts from its origi-
nal thesis. From the patriotic, frontier 
heroism of the joint-stool, we move to the 
sophisticated European revivals of the 
18oos, then to the more familiar designs of 
the early wth century. This is no longer 
your great-great-grandfather's attic, but 
your own. My mother's Revere Ware pots, 
or at least the original 1936 design, are in 
the Modernist room. So is my grandmoth-
er's Electrolux vacuum. The aura of mirac-
ulous survival no longer surrounds the 
objects, and the viewer is left to look into 
.APIUL 20, 2001 
the cases with contradictory motivations: 
Should I stand in solemn contemplation, 
or put the spaghetti on the stove and sweep 
the floor? One cannot help but feel con-
fused in the Contemporary Design room, 
which enshrines a bright orange i-Book 
and those skin-chilling black metal chairs 
that are ubiquitous on the Yale campus. It 
takes a bit of false consciousness to install 
these "artifacts" alongside the joint-stool; 
the curator plays the time-capsule game, 
guessing that hundreds of years into the 
future, the laptop and the dorm-room 
accessory will be the iconic emblems of the 
lives we lived. 

It is fitting for the gallery's narrative to 
end with the art of the 40s and 50s. T his 
was the turning point in the American pro-
. ject, when we finally got the upper hand on 
the Continentals and New York became 
the center of the art world. But we did so 
by a process of artistic globalization: the 
American and the European blended into 
one. The museum's layout as a whole con-
firms this: Through the door of the 
American galleries are the modern and con-
temporary rooms, the fusion point of the 
museum's European and American collec-
tions. But something was lost on both sides 
in the process. Nothing captures this better 
than the series of paintings along the left 
wall at the end of the gr~d salon-we see 
the transformation happen before us, pass-
ing from Marsden H artley's elegiac Last 
Stone Walls, Dogtown to the cold concrete 
elegance of Arnold W irz's 
American 
Landscape to the geometric abstraction of 
Morton 
Livingston 
Schaumburg's 
Machine. 

This was also the point. when art got 
away from us, defying the concept that 
seemed proper a few rooms back of a 
uniquely "American" gallery. In the first 
room beyond the American wing hang the 
works of quintessentially American artists 
like 
Jasper 
Johns 
and 
Robert 
Rauschenberg, shoved outdoors like the 
children the curators know will misbehave 
when the company comes to visit, ruining 
the happy family illusion. We see them 
eventually, however, and the story we've 
been led to believe is suddenly no longer 
relevant. In effect, the viewer is left inside a 
Hopper painting, waiting like that woman 
in the hotel room white-knuckling the bed-
post, afraid to venture out inro the world 
we've shaped in our own image. We're 
afraid because we're still comfortable with 
the old narrative. We refuse to leave and 
thus get stuck, not knowing any longer 
how to respond to art. 

Even our response to the iconoclastic 
Taliban despots is simply another example 
of our growing uncertainties. One couldn't 
help but wince when the Grand Mullah 
pointed out that, for all of our clamoring 
about two stone statues, no one has rushed 
in to feed the children in Afghanistan who 
are starving as a result of UN sanctions. 
After all, they are just as innocent of the 
Taliban's atrocities as the two Buddhas 
carved out of the rock. Hateful as his 
regime is, the Mullah had a point. H is 
comments were yet another signal that our 
Enlightenment attitudes toward art are ill-
fitted to the contemporary world. Yet these 
artirudes are nor going to change on their 
own. The first place to look for the neces-
sary cultural redefinition ought to be the 
temple of artistic culture itself-the muse-
um. The Yale University Art Gallery, how-
ever, has passed at its chance to provide any 
new insight. T he new American galleries 
stick to the script of 1793, and they play it 
well. But as one passes through the exhibit, 
the narrative at its foundation becomes less 
and less apt. One leaves with the disheart-
ening feeling that the final monologue, the 
speech that makes our progression from 
John Trumbull to Jackson Pollack explicit-
ly clear, has yet to be spoken. 

Matthew Undn-wood, a sophomore in 
Davenport College, is an associate 
editor ofTNJ. 


**Title: Cracking the Whip**
**Author: Clint Carroll**
**Page number(s): 38**

Cracki rig the Whip 
by Clint Carroll 
What happens when you r senior 
essay is still due five years later 
T 
he senior essay is supposedly a graduation requirement-and 
to be literal, it is. But it's not due in April. While the rest of 
the graduating class scrambles to meet the deadline, a wily few just 
take it easy. They know the truth: They have up to five years after 
graduation to finish their projects. 

I had heard of people doing this, delinquents who had left Yale 
with a toy diploma and a stern warning: Five years or else! These 
were the legends, the mythic heroes of every kid who had ever called 
home in tears, lamenting work, deadlines, and the future. But were 
they really out there? That's when my obsession began. 

The first delinquent I cornered was Susan (names have been 
changed), a young professional living in California. She had left 
Yale in 1999 without a diploma and with just enough dignity to 
make it out West. For her, the senior essay had been of secondary 
importance, an afterthought in her world of activism, "event orga-
nizing," and liberalism. She was willing to tell me everything, even 
though she had been bedridden for days with a cold. 

She claimed that she hadn't needed a degree to get a job. "I 
think I got my job because of the skills I learned in extracurricular 
pursuits ... and not because of my academic experiences at Yale." I 
never found out exactly what she did. I just couldn't press her. She 
was my first contact, a ·confirmed invalid, and a charming woman. 
But I could sense a blackness in her story. I proceeded with caution. 

The senior essay had indeed affected her adult life. And though 
she was all laughs and nonchalance when it came to talking about 
this, I could sense a desperation in her words: "Ir makes me stay 
horne on Saturday nights . . . and plunge into isolated depression, 
staring at the wall, picking my ear." I could see Susan in a hospice 
gown, slobbering over some coloring book, writing that damn essay. 
My heart almost went out to her. 

But her anxiety seemed to be self-imposed. She told me that 
Yale never contacted her, that she didn't have an advisor, and that 
she could graduate at her own leisure. She was planning on getting 
her diploma this year, so that a younger friend, in the class of 'ox, 
wouldn't be able to "rub it in." She had even made a big foam board 
for her door, a schedule to help her manage time. Her cat had 
devoured it in a frighteningly symbolic act, leaving her with noth-
ing but an essay due and a ticking clock. 

Susan wasn't the only one I found. I had heard that another like 
her lived in New Haven. They called him "Seven Year Pete" and he 
was rumored to be the "oldest undergraduate ever." I was told that 
I could find him at a local coffee shop, that he never left the place. 
But, naturally, he wasn't there. His friends, a roguish group of three, 
told me that Pete had moved to Virginia and that he couldn't be 
reached. He had too many boys in New Haven; it was impossible 
for him to concentrate on work when he was here. 

They continued to 
talk about Pete for some 
time, growing less and less cool as 
they did so. Their stories began to sound 
conspiratorial. Yale was supposedly threaten-
ing to hold Pete's diploma indefinitely, and he had 
needed to "get away" until something blew over. He 
was holed up down South, Yale was upset, and here I 
was, sipping coffee with three strangers with as many cigarettes 
and a whole lot of tattoos. 

I never did talk co Pete. Yet I couldn't help but feel sorry for 
him. Susan had found happy anonymity in California. He was a 
known fugitive. She was working on her essay at leisure. He was fin-
ishing his under a looming deadline. She was bedridden in the sun. 
And he was hiding from Big Brother. It just didn't seem fair. 

So I went looking. for help. I figured that Susan was fine, but 
was worried about Pete. I wanted to fmd him someone--a mentor 
who could inspire him and coax him out of hiding. I found one, 
and she c~aimed to be good. She was a ~ominatrix who dismissed 
all procrastin;lting students as "naughty, naughty" people. Her oper-
ation, "Fit-to-be-Tied,~ seemed legitimate. So I contacted her. Her 
name was Mistress Mineko, and she was the real thing. 

I explained that I was looking for students who could not pos-
sibly finish their essays on time. I asked whether the Mistress could 
help these stragglers, and she said that she could. "I actually charge 
a reduced rate for writers of overdue papers. In our experience, the 
more desperate the client, the easier he or she is to break," she elab-
orated. I didn't really know what she was talking about. 

She sounded like a real hard-nose. She was clearly a sadist, but 
had a girlish sweetness. She told me, "[I'll do] whatever it takes to 
get results, fast. All some clients require is a good talking to ... 
Other clients require more severe measures. This is why we require 
our agents to bring one of our standard 'thesis toolboxes"' -I could 
only guess what these boxes contained, envisioning some duct tape, 
gags, maybe a low-voltage prod-"which include duct tape, gags, 
low-voltage prods." 

I wasn't sure whether bizarre sex would solve any of Pete's prob-
lems, but the Mistress was onto something. Students like Pete just 
need to be pushed sometimes. Often all it takes is an authority fig-
ure stepping in-a teacher, a parent, an older sibling, a sadist. I 
knew that I would never be a figure of eminence to Pete. But maybe 
the Mistress could be. She was so kind, so motherly, so obnoxious-
ly raw. She was all a procrastinating student really needed-a smile, 
a hug, and a stinging slap on the ass. 

-
Clint Carroll, a J"shman in Branford Co/leg~. is a 
circulations and subscriptions manager for TN]. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: Oue otNew Havai• oewallafa&aaoll is allothe fimtaad only MiddleEastauCIW in~ AlesandriaCafe& Rataulaoi**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Oue otNew Havai• oewallafa&aaoll is allothe fimtaad only 
MiddleEastauCIW in~ 
AlesandriaCafe& Rataulaoi · 
it :now opco, 7 days a weekfCI"Vias 1uDdJ aod dinacr fiom 
11 an-3 .a~ 
a :fJawdbl menu i¥1he mad lov~ a1ona 
w:irh ...,....,., dlo.iea. PJWhlybaked dclt:ats.ea detij1st 
a you will eojoydicwooda:fbtly mMpJe at~OOJII'Ite~~ a t1avor.. 
Beautifidly dea.llatcd ia an~ 
cdlnata•IQIJA•~ enjoy 
1DI.15ic aa4 oar live belly~ every Salaa1ay oiaflt Or come 
aod expaieoce die lh*a-aiiDOkilwwaterpipe .. OIOOie irom 
cur i1avots liiJf:h as awJe~ Jtratr,beny aad ftowu .. 
We ean at« to laqJe Jatia • well& we look foJW8Id » 
)'U'~for Junch, di••M7 or afterhoals .. 

