Publication date: September 2005
Volume: 38
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Matt Baron
- Editor-in-Chief: Romy Drucker
- Managing Editors: Concha Mendoza, Adriane Quinlan
- Designer: Sara Schneider
- Associate Publisher: Natasha Kim
- Business Manager: Brian W fD!da
- Photography Editor: Erica Deahl
- Senior Editors: Paige Austin, Sarah Laskow
- Production Manager: Mina Kimes
- Research Director: Helen Eckinger
- Associate Editors: Emi!J Koplry, David Zax
- Web Editor: ]onf!Y Dach
- Circulation and Subscription Managers: Anna Altman, Lane Rick
- Staff: Emily Koh, Julia Wallaa; FJizal Jedl St V1ctor, Ivy Wang
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Coopet; Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kuttz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, FJizabeth Sledge, David Slifka, Fred Sttebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Laura Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou, Emily Bazdon, Anson M Beard,Jt: Blai•c Bennc.ll, Edward B. Bennett, Richard Blow, Martha Brant, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M Clark, Constance Oement, Elisha Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert]. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Fieeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David ..... Greenberg, Tom Griggs, Stephen HeUman, Jane Kamensky, Brooks Kelley, Roger  Le  wis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe; E. Nobles Lowe, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H Newman, Sean O'Brien, Julie Pete! s, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richatd Shields, W. Hampton Sides, I jsa Elizabed1 and Wll1iam Sledge, Adina co and David Sulsu tan, 1homas Strong, FJizil JC:II 1 Tate, Daniel · Ye•gin and Angela Stem Ye.•gin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
The Elephant in the Room - Paige Austin
The Chosen Among the Chosen - Romy Drucker
Points of Departure - Sarah Laskow
Essay: Across State Lines - Lane Rick
Endnote: How to be Happy - Mina Kimes


**Title: The Elephant in the Room**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 4**


How Yale Breeds the Conservative Superstars if Tomorrow


**Title: The Chosen Among the Chosen**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 12**


Can You be a True Jew in Blue?


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Sarah Laskow**
**Page number(s): 19**


The Critical Angle: Padlocks, Griffins, & Gangsters: The Many Meanings of Yale


**Title: Essay: Across State Lines**
**Author: Lane Rick**
**Page number(s): 24**


**Title: Endnote: How to be Happy**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 36**


**King Tut, Busted**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
King Tut, Busted 
LAsT FEBRUARY, NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC 
approached Michael Anderson, a 
museum curator at the Peabody, with a 
seemingly 
straightforward 
request: 
reconstruct the face of a long-dead 
organism based on data gathered from a 
CAT scan of its skull. The catch? 
Anderson was not given a hint as to 
whose skull it was and his results would 
be com 
to those of a French team 
performing an identical reconstruction. 
Since his previous work included recon-
structing · the 
famous 
faces 
of 
Australopithecus aforensis Lucy and a giant 
Luna Moth for an exhibit on Dr. 
Doolittle, he knew the skull could belong 
to just about an 
· 
Luckily, a pl} · · 
CAT scan indi-
cated that the skull was, in fact, human. 
And it revealed tell-tale signs of the 
skull's origins. It still had a smattering of 
soft tissue 
nasal cattilage and lip tis-
sue 
and desiccated skin attached to it, 
indicating that it was not a fossil, since 
only bone fossilizes. Evu1 more telling, 
the brain case was full of resin. Only one 
civilization extracted the brains of its 
4 
dead through their nostrils and poured 
molten plant goo into the ensuing empty 
space: Anderson had a mumn1y on 
his hands. 

Anderson's next step was to use the 
data from the CAT scan to determine the 
mummy's basic characteristics: its age, 
sex, and race. 
''When I first saw the skull, I looked 
at it, and from my limited knowledge of 
skull morphology it looked like a female;' 
Anderson said. He based his assessment 
on the skull's .. soft brow ridges 
most 
males have prominent brow ridges-and 
its delicate facial features. 
''I knew I coulddt rely on my own 
hunches to do this reconstruction," 
· Anderson said. So he took the data to a 
series of experts around New Haven-
first to 
Aronsen at Yale's anthropol-
ogy department, then to an expert at 
Quinnipiac who had previously per-
formed scans on the Peabody's own 
mununy. 
Aronsen 
agreed 
with 
Anderson's initial assessment of the 
mummy's sex, but declined to speculate 
on its age or race. The expert at 
Quinnipiac ventured that the mummy 
· was in its early tw-enties, but was not able 
to definitively ascertain its race or sex. 
By now it was April, and Anderson did 
not feel comfortable going ahead with 
the reconstruction when he did not even 
know this pre · · 
information. ''I 
went back to National Geographic and I 
said 'Look, I think this is a female; I think 
it's someone in their early tw-enties; I 
don't know what race it is. I can do the 
reconstruction with this information, but 
if anyone puts a microphone in my face, 
I'm going to say I did it by the seat of 
mypants,"' he said. 

National Geographic put Anderson in 
touch with Susan Anton at NYU, who 
was able to insert the skull's precise meas-
• • 
J 
1 
urements into a computer program and 
produce a profile of the mummy. The 
results were not what Anderson had 
expected. According to Anton, the skull 
belonged to an 18-20 year-old male. 
'That was a real stunner;' Anderson 
said. But Anton's report revealed why 
Anderson, as well as two experts in the 
field, had been stymied by the mummy's 
sex. The mumn1y came from an 
extremely gracile population and was 
quite young, which meant that his facial 
features would have been more delicate 
than the average tnale. Also, his skull had 
been deliberately deformed, molded into 
a precise shape during the mummy's early 
childhood 
flat on top, bulbous in the 
back which would have decreased the 
prominence of the brow ridge. 

The moment Anderson found out the 
skull belonged to a male mummy, flash-
ing lights went of£ ''They told me when 
I first took the job, 'This is a very famous 
person. You will know who it is, and 
every person in the country will too,"' 
he said. 

Because Anderson initia11y thought the 
skull belonged to a female, he guessed 
that he was being asked to reconstruct 
the face of Cleopatra or Nefertiti. But 
that changed as soon as Anton con-
firmed that his project was male. There 
was only one truly famous male mummy: 
KingTut. 
''I was ahnost certain that it was Tut, 
but I was so hesitant to hazard a guess," 
Anderson said. ''It didn't matter to what 
I was doing." Now that the analytical 
work was out of the way, Anderson 
could 
· sculpting. 
''I started with sculpting the big chew-
ing muscles 
when you clench your 
teeth together you can feel them;' he 
said ''Then I produced the fat pads and 
the s · 
structures. Basically I built up 
the muscles, things that are going to 
affect the contours of the skin." 

After he perfected the facial struc-
tures, Anderson spent days detailing the 
sculpture's skin. He took molds of living 
people's faces, then put clay into the 
molds and grafted it to the sculpture's 
face in order to get a realistic texture in 
other words, King Tut may have the 
enlarged pores of some guy in account-
ing at the Peabody. Anderson presented 
his bust to N arional Geographic in May, 
and both he and the organization were 
extraordinarily pleased with his results. 
'~ou could draw a line down the 
French reconstruction and mine and put 
them together 
there's very little differ-
ence," he said. 

The French team~s reconstruction was 
featured on the cover of the June 2005 
issue of National Geographic and went on 
· display at the Natural History Museum 
of Los Angeles County the same month. 
Then, National Geographic encountered a 
publi<;: ,. relations 
snafu 
epic 
proporttons. 
"There were huge protests in Los 
Angeles about the color of his skin,---
they decided to yank the reconstruction;~ 
Anderson said. 

African-American activists in Los 
Angeles thought that the French 
team's reconstruction looked whiter 
than King Tut · should. Although 
Anderson did not initially have to 
make a choice about what skin tone he 
was going to use on his reconstruc-
tion 
National Geographic asked hirn to 
submit a plaster cast rather than a full 
color version in order to compare its 
features and bone structure to those 
on the French reconstruction; he has 
now been· commissioned to do two 
more busts of Tut as a result of the 
melee. One will feature a light 
Egyptian skin tone, and one will fea-
ture a dark skin tone, with the original 
French reconstruction serving as a 
mid-range model. 
"They're goin_g to put mine and the 
French team's (reconstructions) all up 
together and say 'This is the range of
September 2005 
skin color he might have had' and let 
the public make their decision," 
"To tell the truth, I don't quite get 
the protests," he continued. "It's a 
political hot potato, but the science is 
pretty clear about it and based on that 
science the skin color should have 
been such and such but we don't 
know what Caucasoids~ skin tone was 
when Tut lived. There are some very 
dark skinned portraits of Tut and 
there are some very light skinned ver-
sions 
so who knows." 

Despite uncertainties about the 
color of Tut's skin, Anderson and his 
French colleagues have likely put 
_ together the most accurate representa-
tion to date of what the boy king 
looked like when he died. And while 
the reconstructions of Tut will more 
likely inspire picketers than reveal 
unknown truths about the Egyptian 
royalty, there's something to be said 
for making one of Egypt's most 
famous pharaohs seem a little more 
human than he did when we only 
knew him from the gilded exterior of 
his sarcophocus. It's the beauty of 
finally putting a face to a name. 


**Open Water**
**Author: Erica Deahl**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

ROPES ARE STRETCHED, COILED, AND 
knotted, holding mast to deck to prow to 
stern and you can hear the slow creaking 
as ropes adjust to the shifting water and 
wind. Everyone aboard is tou · 
rope. 

little girls examine thick ropes, frayed and 
hardened by sun and salt. At the prow, a 
man drapes himself over the anchor, 
clenching the knot ·on top and leaning 
hard into the wind. 

It takes most of the 
people 
aboard the schooner to set the sails. They 
line up with feet planted apart and grab 
the rope with both hands, preparing for a 
game of tug-of-war against the immense 
mast. Two of the crew members station 
themselves 
Monica at the throat, Eve at 
the peak and start shouting directions. 
Heave! 
Hold the line! 
Everyone throws the weight of their bod-
ies back and forth, mimicking the rocking 
of waves, and the heavy mast slowly 
groans upward. More ropes are unfas-
tened; white sails, unleashed, whip out 
and bulge against the wind. 

As a woman knots and coils up ends 
of rope, Captain Bill Pinkney, the portrait 
of a seaman white beard, enormous 
glasses, baseball cap, gold hoop earring'--
saunters above deck and urges us to gath-
er around to hear the tale of the Amistad, 
which has just pulled out of the pier at 
Long Wharf and away from the sounds 
of I-95. Pinkney punctuates his sentences 
with sharp exaggerated hand gestures, as 
if he is conducting a rather obstinate and 
near-sighted symphony orchestra. 1bis 
story is very important, his hands seem to 
say as they conjure a trove of tales from a 
lost sea world; pay attention. Gradually, 
all of ·the passengers move in doser, 
drawn into the mesmerizing rh 
· his words. 

The story of the Amistad, he explains, 
is the story of Sengbe Pie~ one of 53 
Mende captives aboard 
the small 
schooner when it set sail for Cuba in 
1839. As the story goes, one day Sengbe 
went to the cook to ask for more food. 
The cook's response was to drag two 
fingers across his neck and point at 
the cooking pot Sengbe believed 
that his captors were planning to 
kill and eat the captives, and rushed 
back to inform the others. With lit-
tle hope of survival, the . group 
' 
decided to fight for its freedom. 

Using a steel nail pried from a plank, 
the captives managed to pick the lock 
on the chains that bound them below 
deck each night They discovered that the 
cargo bins they had been chained above 
were conveniently full of long, sharp 
sugar-cane knives. Armed, the captives 
stormed above deck and seized control of 
the Amistad, hacking the captain to death. 

Unable to operate a ship, they conunand-
ed the two remaining crew members to 
sail toward the sunrise in order to return 
home to Africa. 

During the day, the two Spaniards 
dutifully sailed east towards the sunris~ 
but at night, when the captives could not 
tell which direction was east, they used 
their compasses to sail north instead. 
Rather than sailing towards Africa, the 
ship moved steadily towards New York 
and eventually ended up at Montauk 
Point The ship was never contacted by 
another vessel, because it looked like a 
pirate ship. 

When the Amistad finally reached 
America, the two Spaniard captains sail-
. ing it demanded full property rights of 
the ship and its human cargo. The case 
reached the Supreme Court, where John 
Quincy Adams argued for six hours 
straight on behalf of the captives. He 
eventua11y secured their freedom, a mira-
cle considering that seven of the nine jus-
rices owned slaves or resided in a slave 
state. The decision was one of the first 
judicial triumphs for human rights. The 
Mende setded in Fartnington, Cf, where 
a church group taught them English and 
helped them readjust to the cornmunity. 
When 
the 
Mende raised 
enough money, . they hired a ship and 
· sailed home. 

As Captain Pinkney's hand gestm:es 
become even grander as he approaches 
the finale of his oration, he explaines why 
is so special: It brings people 
together, in physical and spiritual proxim-
ity. All types of people come aboard the 
'i!m.'St. 
during its public sai1s 
today in 
the Ehn Oty as it travels up and down 
the coast. Surrounded by open water, the 
schooner becomes home, prison, and 
means of escape; New Haveners are its 
captives. 

Strangers wander around the 
sma11 deck during the three-hour sail, so 
close that they brush against each other as 
they situate their bodies to the fi 
waves. Tl 
er, they operate the ship 
using the leverage of their combined 
weight. They all listen to the tale of the 
original Amistad's maiden voyage, a story 
of people reco 
· · 
in each other the 
cotnmon trait of humanity and through 
this recognition learning to help and 
understand each other. As they sail home 
against the backdrop of a sky faded pur-
ple, streaked with livid pink and orange, 
they find it easy to believe in Captain 
Pinkney's message. The ship seems much 
louder as it retu tns to the wharf, filled 
with the murmured conversations of 
people who have just met, even if they are 
about to get on the highway. 


**The Jig is Up**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

"SORRY IT'S A BIT HOT IN HERE " ' 
says Jane, who arrives early with 
her husband Dick. ''There is a 
yoga class in here right before-
hand. They like it hot for some 
reason, but we like it cool 
· because we work up a bit of a 
sweat," Dick adds. Tonight is a big 
night for the New Haven branch of 
the Royal Scottish Country Dance 
Society. Still glowing from their annual 
ball two weeks ago, the group is now 
preparing for an exhibition at the 
Masonic Lodge in North Haven to be 
debuted the next day. 

The group meets every Tuesday 
night in an empty conference room in 
the · unassuming New Haven Medical 
Association, a colonial-style office build-
ing on Whitney Avenue. Haphazardly 
stacked chairs and yoga mats litter the 
periphery of the room. A faded wood-
en piano covered in dust sits in the cor-
. ncr. Though call is at 7:30 p.m., the 
group's "regulars" trickle in over the 
next half-hour. 

Jane, a substitute teacher in Orange 
with cropped blonde hair, anxiously 
shifts her gaze from the door to her 
watch and back again. A few tninutes 
before 8 p.m., she hears the front door 
slarn and cranes her neck. HGreat, we've



**A Night of Scottish Dancing**
**Author: Zvika Krieger**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
•
got eight. Let's get started."

The New Haven branch celebrated its 25th anniversary four years ago, recalls Dick, a retired history teacher who graduated from Yale in 1952 and occasionally plays in its marching band. But before he can get too nostalgic, Christopher Anagnostakis, the instructor for the evening and the group's veteran, interjects: "There have been groups of people dancing since the late sixties. They were around years before we became a recognized branch, which was no simple task." According to Christopher, there must be at least two certified instructors in each branch, as well as a minimum number of members. "The certification comes straight from Edinburgh," he announces with pride.


The best way describe Scottish dancing is to describe what it is not. "Don't confuse it with highland dancing, which is much more focused on the individual," Dick warns, wagging a stubby and weathered finger. "And it's a lot more competitive, for the young and strong and athletic," he says with disdain.

"It's like a mix between ballet and the figures from square dancing," Jane adds. "People who have a background in ballet will pick it up pretty easily."

During official demonstrations, the members don traditional Scottish garb which most of them own- but Dick prefers to wear a kilt in class as well. "It allows me more freedom," he says, shunning his kilt from side to side. All except one member are wearing ghillies, the traditional Scottish dancing shoes which are low cut, wide-laced, and wrap around the ankle like ballet slippers.

The members face each other in two parallel lines, with men on one side and women on the other. They dance a sequence of formations, weaving in predetermined directions. Some dance in place while others move around them. Other times, couples circle each other or switch partners altogether. Sometimes the dancers flow into circles of four in the middle of which each person puts one hand in to form a pinwheel.

The movement is fluid and in time with the music. There is no set dance movement, per se, as the members traverse the steps some skip while others shuffle, some trot while others strut each infuses his or her own personality into the routine.

Christopher announces that tonight they will attempt a series he adapted from an English country dance. This causes some raised eyebrows, but he immediately begins to read the sequence from a directions sheet: allemande, ladies chain, birl, arch, slip step, cast, snake, promenade; the members nod their heads as they visualize the dance.

As Christopher adjusts the stereo, some bend their knees in anticipation, while others start hopping or marching in place. They jump right into the dance once the music begins, executing the first few steps without interruption. But then Jane gets lost during a reel and stands frozen between the two lines.

"You were already chained! You don't make another chain," snaps Christopher. Jane ponders the direction for a moment, then smiles and falls back into place. Christopher waves his hand in a circle over his head and restarts the music.

Later that night, as he watches the group practice from the side, he explains, "I like things to be meticulous, which is why I was pushing them hard tonight to stand straight in the rows and make the movements flawless."

He quickly turns his attention back to the group. "When I said stretch your body to meet her, I really meant stretch," he barks. "I'm doing what I can," one of the older members snips and then giggles. "Scottish dance is all about precision and syncopation," Christopher notes.


After a few more rehearsals, the group seems to have worked out the kinks and executes the dance seamlessly. The mood is lighter and Dick even breaks the circle at one point to twirl, eliciting a collective cheer. As the room heats up, one of the older ladies recklessly takes off her knit button-down sweater and throws her hands up in the air. At the end of the dance, Dick and Jane steal a quick kiss.

As the last person leaves, George packs away the stereo equipment and shuts the creaking wooden door to the ballroom.

At 55 years-old, George, who is class chair of the New Haven branch, is one of the youngest in the group. "You know, we really could use some new blood in this group. And it's really such a shame, us being so close to Yale and all, full of young kids. Oh well. We're all young at heart," he says without the least bit of sarcasm.
-Zvika Krieger


**Dimmer Switch**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 8**

As both a Yale student and New Haven native, I know this town like the back of my hand. That said, it took me an entire year to notice the city's renovated street lights; and then, only after someone pointed them out to me.

With its new lights installed, the city shines not bigger or brighter but better, with the full cut-off light the directing the light downward instead of upward or out. The old style- the cobra head drop lights- relied on faulty logic. The theory went: The more light there is, the better you see.

Bob Crelin, a member of the Astronomical Society of New Haven (ASNH), has a different hypothesis, one that emphasizes brightness with contrast. He believes that the effectiveness of a fixture depends upon how the light it sheds is used, not how much of it there is. To see better at night, one should simply "lessen the contrast," as Crelin says, between light and dark. Dim the lights; your eyes will adjust. "It's a matter of letting your eyes do what they do naturally," he says.

Crelin, who authored *There Once Was a Star Full of Stars*, uses this example: Suppose you are in a pitch-black room with only a bare bulb to ward off the darkness. How well can you see? Not well. Now, suppose you shield the bulb with your hand. Much better. At night, on local streets, the new system's full cut-off fixture acts as your hand. It is a shield that not only clarifies your vision but also prevents stray rays from streaming into a bedroom window or producing glare on a car windshield.

The renovated system similarly battles light pollution the ultimate luminary evil- by protecting the sky from excess illumination. Overlighting, the primary cause of light pollution, is caused by basic fear of the dark. Anxiety over what lurks in the shadows provokes the copious amount of light. On its website, the International Dark Sky Association, an organization intent on combating light pollution, states that bright light is not equivalent to strong security. "The task is to be safe, not just to feel safe. We want to be able to see well, rather than lighting the criminal's way. Good lighting can be a help, poor lighting always compromises safety." Bob Carruthers, Vice President of the ASNH, states that the extra light meant to deter crime is, in fact, "counter-productive." "People do feel safer," he explains, "But in actuality they're not."

The battle of light versus dark is not a new one; and neither is the full cut-off solution. As early as 1997, Mayor John DeStefano, Jr. looked into revamping the city's light system but decided to maintain the status quo. "It wasn't popular back then," Crelin says, adding that full cut-off lighting now constitutes a hip alternative.

In 2004, the city reconsidered Crelin's project. New Haven's Street Lighting Manager, Tim Keyes, and its Purchasing Agent, Mike Fumiatti, took lead roles. Shortly after, the city hired two separate, private contractors to carry it out. In their entirety, the renovations cost New Haven close to $1.5 million $646,397.50 for the labor and $849,620.40 for the material. Star-lit skies don't come cheap.

Despite this investment, Brendan Cohen, a member of the student-group STARRY --Society for Telescopes and Astronomical Research and Recreation at Yale is not confident that the change in lighting provides city-dwellers with stronger star visibility. The group, which hosts observing sessions on Cross Campus, is fully aware of the diffusion that streetlights bring to the sky. "We're still in a city," he argues. "There's still gonna be light pollution." He cites this urban conundrum as the reason why STARRY makes little effort to combat over-lighting.

Stars or no stars, the new fixtures do require less power to function. Over time, the expensive project should pay for itself. Keyes cited consumption savings as equal to $220,000 each year. Crelin considers the renovation to be "a well-intentioned step in the right direction," but believes that New Haven would have benefited from more extensive research. He contends that with an even greater decrease in wattage, the city could have further reduced operating costs and saved a larger amount of money. But that's for the next round of bulbs.

With a full understanding of the project, I decided to test its environmental promise. Once darkness settled, I looked outside my window to the street light directly across from my house. Sure enough, its light aimed straight down. I reversed my gaze and looked up with a hope to see stars. No such luck that night there were only clouds.
-Emily Koh


**Yale Bathroom Graffiti**
**Author:  (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 9**

"DO NOT THINK, THAT I AM COME TO SEND PEACE ON EARTH: I CAME NOT TO SEND PEACE, BUT A SWORD." ---Matthew 10:36

This citation is incorrect. The line actually comes from Matthew 10:34. But for the authors of a biting exchange of messages (the scrawled retort: "Christianity is evil and violent") on a marble wall dividing the third and fourth stalls in one of Yale's largest restrooms, that made little difference. When I first noticed the Matthew exchange, the second writer had the last word. But when I returned several weeks later, another artist had added: "No Christian has ever flown a plane into a building." One conclusion gave the debate a poetic flair, "Your breath smells so mean, you need Listerine/ Not a sip, not a swallow, but the whole damn bottle."

Around the corner from Machine City in Cross Campus Library, the restroom is long and wide, with a few yards separating a row of urinals from a line of twelve toilet stalls. From the outside of the stalls almost no graffiti is visible, but inside, it cannot be ignored. Some of it is carved into the stone inscriptions dating back to the seventies are still visible--and others written with Sharpie markers and ballpoint pens appear to have suffered little wear over the years. Most of the graffiti in the stalls arcs around a reader seated on a toilet, and the industrious bathroom user performs two simultaneous tasks.

A forum for political debate, young man humor, and a blank slate for personal ads, the bathroom stalls are primarily a message board, not unlike Craigslist. That is, more numerous than any other types of posting are raunchy solicitations for sex, often with time, place, and sometimes, a racial qualifier. Writers tempt readers to join them beyond the bathroom doors at Woolsey Hall or East Rock Park for anal and oral sex; specific requests are made for younger boys, Yale students, large genitalia, and, in one entry dated December 12, 1989, "real love."

Many of the more recent sexual requests are repeated by their authors in several stalls, and are often accompanied by e-mail addresses set up specifically for the occasion, with monikers derived from the author's physical characteristics and the year of writing. Only a few, including one describing himself, the writer, as a "closeted masculine athlete guy," admit any sexual repression. And while it's unclear whether a restroom pleading does result in rendezvous, no evidence exists to the contrary. The following poem, however crude, suggests that, perhaps, encounters do occur:

Here I sit
Thinking I was alone ...
While the gays in the next
stall moan.

Some writers receive responses demanding more details, but most often, requests are greeted with homophobic slurs and derogatory epithets. In fact, hateful words proliferate: There are a few swastikas, and on one wall, a number of phrases in German have been scratched out, leaving only "Ein Fuhrer."

Fortunately, the community of water-closet writers polices itself: Next to the anti-semitic graffiti is written an equally nasty response to the perpetrators. Most of the stalls are privy to hateful and largely witless denunciations of George W. Bush; and I found claims that our sitting president ingested cocaine, defecated, masturbated, and "knocked on the coffin."

Among these displays of rancor, loneliness, and unfulfilled desire, there is a scattered collection of the absurd, the inspired, and the inexplicable. Some inscriptions are authoritative ("The world is God's gargantuan testicle"); some are spiritual ("The balance: Why wait, grab your life/ Seek the middle path,"). There is a two-line excerpt from Robert Lowell's "Skunk Hour," a few declarations of love, one declaration of freedom, a discussion about the income of Yale staff, and an appeal to an indefinite subject to "Lock your mama up and throw away the key." Though perhaps the product of boredom, many of the inscriptions seem to be manifestations of the tensions inherent in the developing personalities of young adults and in the frustrated lives of employees. Where no one is looking, where no vandal can be


**Binary Systems**
**Author: Alexandre Lessard-Pilon**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
identified, and where the most private of 
human physiological processes takes 
place, men at Yale find the liberation 
they need to plaster their stray thoughts 
on a wall, perhaps to displace their 
unhappiness onto the next defecator, or 
perhaps simply to snicker at the joy of 
untraceable crime. 
' 
-Alexandre Lessard-Pilon 


**Yale's Astronomy Department: A Global Reach**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

·Bin~ry Systems 
"So 
CONNECilCUf IS A LOUSY 
place to do astronomy;' says Charles Bailyn, 
ar1: astrOnomy professor who has discov-
ered smaJ1 black holes in the Musca and 
Scorpius conste1lations, who first noted 
uniformity in the masses of black holes 
fanned by imploded stars, and who is cur-
rently observing binary star systems-all 
from 
his 
foothold 
in · Southern 
Connecticut. ''What you want, to get good 
observations, is mountains. In the desert" 
So once, maybe twice a year, the squir-
relly academic packs his bags for La Serer•a, 
Chile. Seven thousand feet. above the sea 
and two-hours from the nearest town, in 
the craggy, purple mountains of the Andes, 
just where the . lean dirt road 
· s to 
widen, the professor's dusty Jeep comes to 
a halt Though he has traveled thousands of 
miles from his alma mater in New Haven, 
10 
Bailyn is really just traveling from one Yale 
campus to another. Yale's ·Astronomy 
Department, working under the National 
Optical 
Astronomy 
Observatory 
(NOAO), contracts and hires Chilean tech-
nicians to maintain the Cerro Tololo Inter-
American Observatory here, and e-mail its 
images to the department 
When Bailyn arrives at twilight, he has 
the habit of counting the condors-those 
big, mousy awkward birds, who are grace-
ful only iri flight If they're flying this high, 
it is due to updrafts-bad news for observ-
ing. In La Serena, the local technicians have 
coined a phrase ''A three condor night,'' 
and it means the observations are going to 
be lousy. 
Yale astronomers get ten percent of 
the viewing time, while the other ·ninety 
percent is divided between the institutions 
which helped Yale to refurbish the scope. 
Because of a law which applies to all 
Chilean telescopes, Chilean astronomers 
get ten percent of all research time. 'The 
· only problem,'' Bailyn say8, "is that there 
just too few Chilean astronomers.'' Instead 
of letting the valuable re 
· · 
ten per-
cent go to waste, Yale's Astronomy 
Department agreed to help the University 
of Chile start up a graduate astronomy pro-
gram, even offering Chilean students class-
es in New Haven. Today, Professor Bailyn 
is the scope's director, delighting in all of its 
. .. 
successes. "A lot of people read about the 
new planet in the news this year;' he said, 
sp 
offhandedly about the discovery 
of 2003UB313, the supposed planet 
beyond Pluto, 
first found by the 
astronomers at Yale and Caltech. ''Really, 
their research was backed up by observa-
tions made on the telescope in Chile, run by 
Yalies." Graduate students swiveling in 
office chairs on Science Hill type e-mails to 
the astronomers in the Andes, and the next 
morning, receive digital images of swaths 
. 
of Southern Hermsphere. 
Ten years ago, Professor Bailyn traveled 
to Chile for three nights of valuable view-
ing time. On the first night, it rained. On the 
second night, the astronomers nearly fell 
off their swivel stools 
scared by the 
shrapnel-echo of "ping-pong-sized chunks 
of hail" pelting the hollow tin roo£ On the 
third night, they got lucky, and found evi-
dence of a black hole. 'The fun part of it 
was that we were able to examine the data 
as it was acquired,'' Bailyn said. "So we 
could see the star's motion around its invis-
ible companion while it was happening.'' 
This immediate joy is lost on most 
astronomers who today use a technique 
known as "queue observation" 
employ-
ing permanent on-site technicians and 
instructing them via the internet 
Though they're no longer harnpered by 
hailstorms-eve 
· 
is just pushed back in 
the event of inclement weather-many 
astronomers larnent the new efficiency. 
''We don't get as many cool trips,'' Bailyn 
jokes. And of course, it's less exciting to 
open a ]PEG the next morning than to 
catch an orbiting binary as it orbits. Jokes 
aside, queue observing is actnally a very 
serious controversy within the astronomi-
cal community. Many astronomers find it 
difficult to make informed judgments 
about the quality of the observations when 
-
they haven't seen them obtained. And, 
sadly, more and more students are graduat-
ing from astronomy programs without get-
ting their hands dirty with a real, 
huge telescope. 
Forty years ago, the telescope cratered 
in the Andean rock Was kept much closer 
to. those who ran it. Originally, Yale's 1.0 
meter scope (the mirror from which the 
sky's light is reflected has a 1.0 meter diam-
eter) scanned the Northern Hemisphere 
from cozy Bethany, Connecticut But, as 
Bailyn explained, 'Though there's excellent 
research that can be done from there, it was 
stupid." Due to · 
light pollution 
and poor weather, misty, humid Bethany 
just "didn't make sense." At that time, in the 
1960s, Yale was using time on larger tele-
scopes in other locales, which were able to 
see objects much further away. Other uni-
versities were throwing their 1.0 meter tele-
scopes away. 
In the face of this new technology, Yale 
opted to move Bethany's 1.0 meter tele-
scope in 1973 to an area of the sky they 
were interested in seeing more broadly. The 
Southern Hemisphere. 'The Southern 
Hemisphere is so much better than the 
6 
Northern Hemisphere; there's the closest 
- star, Alpha Centauri, and the 
Way 
stripes across," said Professor Bill van 
Altena, fr-om his office in the Northen1 
Hemisphere. "EVi 
of interest is 
down there.'' When the departinent moved 
its Bethany scope south, it was following a 
long tradition of research in the Southern 
Hemisphere, 
in 1920 when Yale 
started to develop its Johannesburg, South 
Africa station with a 26-inch refractor built 
in a Yale lab. In the 1960s, the department 
constructed a new observatory, the largest 
of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere, in 
the easten1 foothills of the Andes, at El 
Leoncito, 
tina. From 1965 to 1974, 
the department used this telescope to tack-
le the ambitious project of surveying the 
enti rc hanisphere. At the end of a ten year 
span, they had proof that these telescope 
were quite useful: They had produced the 
most exact photograph of the southern 
sky ever taken. 
Though the bulk of astronomical 
re; ~rch fits snugly within the stereotype of 
the bookish, de tical mathematician, Yale's 
Astronomy D 
ent puts their little 
to work all over the globe. Van 
Altena still goes south to train new workers 
and conduct his own resea reb several times 
, 
a year. Trips South have also become per-
sonal. ''My wife is Argentinean,'' he says; he 
September 2005 
met her on a sabbatical Professor 
Bailyn makes the trip less often, 
but cer1ainly looks forward to 
the travel. "It's fun to have an 
excuse to just 
oft:'' 
he said. '~d the students 
like it" To ensure that 
. Yale's 
grads do get 
hands-on 
experience, 
Bailyn founded a pro-
gram tided SMARTS 
(Small 
and 
Moderate 
Aperture 
Research 
Telescope System) which, 
among other 
forces grad 
students to ~ 
the observatory 
thanselves when the Andean workers 
. take vacations. In the program, students 
have observed 
Ray Bursters, mon-
itored black holes, and tracked asteroids. 
Today, the department is even looking to 
address the lack of study abroad programs 
for scia1ce majors by creating a summer 
..., ....... ::. .... un for undergrads who are interested 
in studying astronomy abroad, and speak-
ing entirely in Spanish . 
.. 
Van Altena's teatn is currendy compar-
ing the map obtained 30 years ago using 
only 17 by 17 inch photo plates, which 
show the precise positions of the stars back 
then, with new digital exposures his team is 
of the same area of the sky. ·By 
' the two digital i.tnages, van 
Altena and his students will look at how, in 
the 
inteairn, the positions of the 
stars have 
The difference 
the images 
the ways in which the 
stars in our 
are moving-information 
that will fiu d1er our knowledge about the 
mass and da1sity of our 
and the 
existence of dark matter there. '~the 
initial census, where we counted the stars 
and added up their mass, there wasn't tnuch 
of a gap,'' van Altena says, referring to the 
observable tnass of the 
, versus the 
mass implied by the way it is moving; "We 
found no evidence fur dark maucr locally, 
near the sun in our own 
, though it 
may exist in other parts of the 
. ' By 
the existence of dark matter 
and dark a1ergy-that invisible stuff that 
pushes our stars further and fi.u d1er apart-
pro-
fessor 
is 
really 
looking 
into the ultimate fate of our universe. 
"Before the advent of comput-
er-controlled large telescopes and 
instrumentation, observing meant 
being trapped in an observing cage, 
which is five feet in diameter and six 
feet long, high above the floor" van 
Altena described. "It's one of the 
most mystical experiences for an 
observer. You have the feeling of 
being able to see the distances 
between stars." In New Haven, 
where the sky at night glows dull 
orange, where the stars look like 
pinpricks, astronomers feel much 
further from the stars they study. 
Researchers say that El Leoncito, 
Argentina is so dark that when the 
moon is down but the Milky Way is 
up, you can read a newspaper by the 
lig~t of the stars. ''At least in my 
generatiori:," said van Altena, "we 
became astronomers because we 
loved to look at the sky, and really 
see it." 


**Seen From Above**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

from twenty-thousand feet. It is 
a view rarely seen by its resi-
dents 
unless they're profes-
11 




**A Google Earth Odyssey**
**Author: Johnny bach**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
internet telephones, it won't be
programs,
the
more
people
long before clicking on the pic-
using it, the better and better it
ture of a friend's house is
gets. Though more esoteric
enough to make her phone ring information might still require
or her instant messaging window
using an old-fashioned search
blink. A slight improvement in
engine to locate
perhaps a
the satellite photo Google Earth
link to it could be located on
has of New Haven would bring top of the side of Bishop Tutu
it up
to
the resolution of corner where the New Haven
Cambridge, where you can count Information Booth sits
a bur-
the leaves
on the trees of geoning community will quickly
Harvard Yard and the frowns on
enter all of the information
students'
faces.
Some
about our city, and other cities,
Manhattan bloggers feature a
that one could reasonably need
Google Maps photo of the
find.
And
with
Google
island with the link of the blog
Earth, a quick tap on the zoom
hovering over its author's apart-
button can take you from an
ment; Google Earth can do the _Internet where information is
same without the size of your
local, to an Internet where
screen defining the extent of information
is
global
and
your neighborhood.
back again.
Ultimately, worldwide
accessibility is the program's
strongest chance for success.
As with other user-modified


**Yale and the Conservative Paradox**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

In coming to Yale, Brian
Christiansen knew he was
entering a social enclave
more liberal than any he had
ever experienced; that was
exactly why he chose it. The son of a
retired navy captain, Christiansen had
always lived on military bases-
including, years earlier, the US base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
and his par-
ents had reinforced the conservative,
patriotic tendencies of the military
community. But when Christiansen
decided to go to West Point as a high
school senior, his parents urged him
to test new waters; he could always
return to the military life later. In the
meantime, choosing Yale over West
Point would
offer
a
different
perspective.
And it wouldn't take long.
One of Brian's freshman-year suit-
mates also identified himself as a
conservative, but they were the only
ones in their Old Campus dormitory.
"I remember we were sitting around
in a dorm room in Farnam one day,"
Christiansen recalled this summer,
three months after he graduated and a
month before returning to Yale
School of Management as a Silver
Scholar, "and someone said, 'Well, at
least we won't run into many
Republicans here!' John and I looked
at each other and we both kind of
slowly raised our hands."
The experience was a harbinger of
ideological divergence to come. From
the beginning, Christiansen was less
than thrilled with the quality of politi-
cal discussion at Yale
and with the
acrimony of many of his peers' Bush-
bashing. "So after 9/11, I kept my
views to myself and studied and pre-
pared for my post-Yale career," he
recalled ruefully, but with characteristic
good cheer.
In hindsight, Christiansen posits
that the quality of political dialogue at
Yale has decreased since the time
when future members of America's
conservative vanguard
people like
Governor George Pataki '67 or
President Reagan's attorney general,
Edwin Meese III '53
studied there.
But criticism of Yale's leftist skew and
the resulting paucity of substantive
debate was nothing new in that era
either. In fact, the person most often
hailed as the father of modern
American conservatism, William F.
Buckley, graduated from Yale in the
class of 1950 and within a year, had
cut his teeth in national politics by
writing a book that denounced what
he saw as Yale's creeping liberal bias,
God and Man at Yale.
In the book, Buckley warned the
good Christian men dominant among
Yale alumni and trustees that, rather
than filling their ranks with more of
their own, Yale had taken to convert-
ing its students into "atheistic social-
ists." The book caused a furor in the
national media. Meanwhile, Buckley
went on to found the conservative
magazine The National Review and to
reign over traditional conservatives
for more than four decades. His career
captured a curious irony: Yale simultaneously bred the first public backlash
against left-wing dominance of col-
lege campuses, in the form of
Buckley's landmark critique, and peopled the vanguard of Republican pol-
itics. Today, Yale is the best-represent-
ed university among staffers in the
current Republican administration-
the second, in fewer than twenty years,
under a Yale Republican
and well
represented in a range of conservative
DC institutions. On the surface, it
seems Buckley was mistaken in con-
demning his alma mater. If what he
said was true, how could Yale have
continued attracting young conservatives, and propelling them into the
upper echelons of Republican politics
for another half century?
The question sheds light on the



**Where the Won Things Are**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In his biweekly Yale Daily News column "Unchained Reactionary," Keith Urbahn claimed that the Bush-Cheney t-shirt he donned the week before last fall's election uncovered a "covert fraternity of Bush supporters on campus"—a substantial number of fellow Republicans who may not have had t-shirts of their own, but did offer thumbs up and looks of approval for his. His conclusion was that his political peers were not hiding their political beliefs; they just didn't feel like brooking all the criticism they would face if they chose to advertise.


At a casual Greek eatery near Dupont Circle this July, Urbahn elaborated. At Yale, he said, the liberal atmosphere is intimidating for people who disagree with it: "You're constantly barraged. So you either don't say anything or you feel like you know what you're talking about enough to interact with people." Clearly, Urbahn prides himself on being in the latter category. But of course, not everyone hankers for debate.


"If you get to know me well enough," Priscilla Adams explained at a restaurant on the other side of Dupont, "You'll see I have conservative written all over my forehead." But Adams doesn't flaunt it, and she has reasons not to: "If you're going to be really vocal, you have to be willing to argue all the time... and I'm not a confrontational person." Instead, as a sophomore, she applied for a Pickering Fellowship, which put her on track to spend two years getting a Masters Degree in International Relations, courtesy of the federal government, then join the Foreign Service for another four. She's not sure about a future in politics, but obviously, for the time being, she is ahead of the pack on getting a toehold in government.


The distance between Urbahn and Adams represents the division in the conservative demographic at Yale. There are a few highly vocal conservatives (another Yalie interning in DC this summer estimated there are five and then proceeded to count them off on his fingers; Urbahn was number two) and a larger mass of quiet ones, people like Adams and Christiansen, likely to join the political fray, but only after they graduate. Even Andrew Bender, the Vice President of the Yale College Republicans and a summer intern at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, recalls being unsure whether to mention his role in YCR in postcards to his freshmen counselees: He didn't want to compromise their goodwill before he even met them.


The silence of the latter variety of conservatives shrouds the University's Republican minority in ambiguity. There is little doubt that it's there, but its members can be difficult to identify, and easy for the liberal majority to ignore.


Coming to Washington, then, where most organizations carry a political designation by reputation, if not on the door, can bring Yale's political demographics into sharper relief. For Austin Broussard, who interned at the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) last year and this summer for his Republican senator David Bitter, the experience was revealing: "It's not like we conservatives run in the same circles at Yale, so it's almost like a coming-out party: It's like wow, you too? I didn't even know!"


But in the world of DC interns, conservative Yalies aren't so few and far between. Last summer, when Broussard worked at AEI—home to administration luminaries like Lynn Cheney, Paul Wolfowitz and John Bolton '67, LAW '70—seven of the 55 summer interns were from Yale. This year there were another five. The Heritage Institute, a conservative think tank noted for its stellar internship program, had two Yalies this summer and three the previous year. Three of this summer's White House interns were from Yale.


But those numbers need context: A lot of Yale students intern in DC. When R. David Edelman set up a Yale-in-Washington program for summer interns last spring, 450 students registered for the mailing list. Of those, 300 attended Yale-in-Washington events between the start of June and mid-August, many with noted Washington conservatives like Weekly Standard publisher William Kristol and Senator John McCain. Edelman did not record participants' places of employment, but he agreed with many interns' estimates that at least half of the Yalies in DC were right-of-center.


At Yale itself, the proportions are much more skewed. Judging by membership in the Yale Democrats and the Yale College Republicans, Democrats outnumber Republicans at Yale by almost three to one. Of course, not all conservatives identify as Republican, nor all Republicans as all-around conservatives, but the numbers are telling. Conservatives constitute a much higher proportion of Yale students interning in DC than they do in the undergraduate population as a whole.


For a minority accustomed to dissimulating at school, DC is like a summer-long coming-out party.


**The New Radicals**
**Page number(s): 17**

Even in William Buckley's era, at the start of the 1950s, conservatives were a minority, more prone than liberals to cause offense and less likely to receive slack for it. In God and Man at Yale, the former YDN chairman complained that his right-of-center editorials elicited far more ire than those of his leftist successor in the class of 1951. For Buckley, the experience indicated a turning point in Yale history: "I am forced to conclude from my experience with the Yale Daily News through several years, and from other evidence also, that at least at this college level, the great transformation has actually taken place. The conservatives, as a minority, are the new radicals."


At the time, conservatives of Buckley's political ilk really were radicals, fitful in their relationship even to the Republican Party. Today, conservatives occupy far less of a political fringe. Still, many of them count their status as radicals among the University's blessings. That's because they hail disproportionately from places where, as Adams said of her hometown in the Florida panhandle, "You're hard-pressed to find a Democrat" (though probably not as hard-pressed as Jordan Stevens, a sophomore from Midland, Texas who interned on Capitol Hill this summer. In the president's hometown, Stevens says, "Nobody I know, literally nobody, is liberal."). At Yale, by contrast, conservative-minded students encounter frequent opposition to the views they grew up with. Many say the contention forces them to re-trench and learn how to argue for their positions. Escape, after all, would be impossible. "If I weren't open to hearing liberals, I'd be shunned," chuckled Matt Ciesielski, a conservative from small-town Indiana, and an AEI intern this summer.


All that contact with the liberal opposition keeps conservatives on their toes. By way of example: The Yale Democrats has over a thousand nominal members, about one hundred of whom participate in the group's meetings or events. In the Yale College Republicans, by contrast, over fifty of the 350 members are active: one in six, as opposed to one in ten Yale Democrats.


And at the Yale Political Union, as president Silas Kulkarni explained, "Though the left outnumbers the right by about two to one in membership, the attendance pattern is almost the exact inverse... People have tried very hard to get the left to show up in force, but so far that has proven very difficult." The Party of the Right (POR), the most conservative of the six YPU parties, consistently has the best attendance at YPU debates: On average, Kulkarni estimates, 20 to 25 POR members attend, compared to only five to ten members of the furthest left party.


The reason, Kulkarni believes, is that liberals prefer activism to politicking. In a sense, that is not surprising: The Yale Democrats and liberal YPU parties are only two options in a whole smorgasbord of left-leaning, single-issue groups and clubs. Conservatives have fewer places to go—as Ciesielski said, "If you're not involved with the Yale College Republicans or the YPU, you're kind of just out there as a conservative." But undergraduates on the right also have more cause to consider their politics and, to the extent that they opt for political involvement at Yale, not to take that involvement lightly. The result is that, proportionally, there are fewer armchair conservatives than liberals.


Of course, there are a few places at Yale where conservatives are no minority. When Stevens' football coach polled the team after the election last fall, seventy percent of the players said they voted for Bush. And Ali Jiwa, the president of the Yale College Republicans, noted, "Especially at election times, when we needed to rally, it was up to someone to call up the DKE guys"—DKE being, as Urbahn put it, home to "a lot of Cheney hats." Outside the President's old fraternity, however, there are few groups whose members would dare to show their colors.


**I Got You Babe**
**Page number(s): 18**

Ironically, having fewer conservative organizations at Yale has its perks—conservative Yalies who do get involved in campus politics know where to find each other, whether they need help or are in a position to offer it. When David Barnes, a former president of the Party of the Right, joined the staff of the Heritage Institute last year, he advised several POR members still at Yale to apply for one of Heritage's vaunted summer internships. When they did, Barnes says he was in a good position to advocate. David White, another alumnus from the class of 2003, did the same thing for his former cohorts at The Politic, eventually picking Will Ritchie to intern with him in the speech-writing department at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) this summer.


There is nothing new about connections helping students to secure jobs and internships in Washington. But for conservatives, minority identification lends a degree of camaraderie that dime-a-dozen liberals would find hard to match.


Urbahn, the YDN columnist, got his job as an intern in speech-writing at the Department of Defense when he sent his resume to David White at HUD, who passed it along to fellow Yale alumni in the White House and the Department of Defense. Though Urbahn did not have a formal interview at the White House, those he spoke to in both places were Yalies. "You share stories," he recalled later in the summer. "One guy was a reporter for the YDN; he just identified with me." Chris Michel, the former YDN editor-in-chief now serving on Bush's


**Title:  Untitle**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
speech-writing staff, had in fact 
already emailed Urbahn to commend 
him for his plucky biweekly column, 
which marked its author out as a 
• 
dogged anomaly on a liberal campus. 


At a Yale-in-Washington dinner later 
in the summer, Michel said that, like 
many of his fellow young alumni, he 
still trolls the YDN and keeps an eye 
out for good writers like U rbahn. In a 
sense, Michel is just returning the 
favor: At the same dinner, he 
explained that he got his job when a 
member of the ·YDN alumni board 
put him in touch with a Yale alum 
working in the White House, who 
helped hhn to get an internship in 
speech-writing and 
then, a 
few 
months later, to turn the internship 
r into a staff position. The reason for 
· that help, and its iffiplication, was not 
lost on Michel . 


"If you go to Yale and you're con-
servative~· you're part of a group that is 
I' 
especially small. I think there's that 
drive to hire people and help people 
along," explained U rbahn. "There's a 
sense that I 
know what you're 
going through." 


White, who left his fiUD job in 
August to become the assistant editor 
of AEI's in-house magazine, agreed. 
"Most Y alies are willing to go out on a 
limb for other Yalies, even people 
you've never met before. And proba-
bly especially wirh conservative Yalies, 
because there aren't as many of us, so 
if we want to fill up DC with like-
minded Y alies we have a smaller pool 
to pull from." 


And with that as their bond, Yale 
conservatives 
will 
find 
that in 
Washington, they are not alone. 


**Title: IN GOOD CoMPANY**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

wo features of Yale's con-. 
servatism 
consolidated 
undergraduate institutions, 
and the catalyzing effects of 
minority status 
find an 
almost 
uncanny 
reflection 
in 
Washington. This summer, few topics 
seemed as in vogue among lefti~t 
organizers as the right's edge in culti-
vating young leaders, and the left's 
need to play catch up. Conservative 
organizations like Heritage, The Cato 
Institute, 
The 
Project 
for 
the 
American Century, and the Inter-
Collegiate Institute have been preen-
ing college-aged conservatives for 
decades. In the 1960s and '70s, 
Buckley's Young America Foundation 
did the 
same thing, channeling 
resources to conservative student 
groups on campuses. across the coun-
try. These organizations were intend-
ed to counteract the liberal onslaught 
Buckley had trumpeted years earlier, 
but by now, they have a two decade 
head start. 


The Heritage Institute, with its 75-
student internship program is a 
Washington 
standout: 
well-estab-
lished, well-funded and, best of all, 
chock full of true believers 
the old 
alongside the young. And this sum-
mer, it had the good fortune to attract 
a recent Yale graduate who, in the pre-
vious four years, had plenty of impe-
tus to reflect on his conservative 
views: Brian Christiansen. 


Christiansen spent the summer at 
Heritage interning for Edwin Meese 
III, a constitutional law scholar and 
fellow 
Yale 
alumnus, 
compiling 


research and writing a position paper 
that will help Heritage establish its 
stance on prisoners' rights at the mili-
tary base where Christiansen once 
lived, Guatanamo Bay. The program, 
which he described as "half intern-
ship, half school," was an eye-opener: 
Christiansen discovered a whole 
movement, rooted in Reagan conser-
vatism, to counteract the leftward tilt 
on college campuses that had hit him 
in the face in a Farnam dorm room 
four years earlier. Intellectually, . it 
engaged him as few classes or forums 
at Yale had 
though, of course, Yale 
had a big effect on his experience. His 
internship was funded with a fellowship 
from his Yale fraternity, Zeta Psi, and he 
says he is a better writer and researcher 
because of his time there. He added 
amused, "Sometimes I'll say stuff and 
people will write it off like, he's been 
brainwashed at liberal Yale.'' 


His time at Heritage taught 
Christiansen a few things about liberal 
Yale too. In June, The New York Times 
published a high-profile article on the 
J 
' 
Heritage program, which mentioned 
Christiansen's name and said that · he 
was happy to have reprieve from the 
"liberal ethos" at Yale. Afterwards, he 
began receiving calls and emails from 
other Yale graduates who had looked 
up his contact information in the 
alumni directory. "They just wanted to 
congratulate me on what I'm doing," 
Christiansen recalled in August. As 
one of the quiet conservatives at Yale, -
he was shocked to find he had so 
much company. "I a1most feel like 
there's this secret cell of conservatives 
who you don't know about," he mar-
veled. "I thought I was one of like ten 
conservatives." 


Apparently, the people whq called 
him thought the same thing. They fig-
ure Christiansen is unique at Yale, just 
like they once were. And but for his 
time at Heritage, Christiansen would 
still agree with them.


**Title: DC THINK 
TANKS: 
CONVINCING 
C ASES, SMILING FACES**
**Page number(s): 20**

nterning at a posh DC think-
tank can do more than unite stu-
dents of a political feather. 
Christiansen estimates that 
when he applied to Heritage, only 
sixty percent of his responses to 
application questions were in accord 
with the Institute's positions. On a 
few crucial issues, like affirmative 
action, he was at odds. But over 
lunch at the Capital Hill Brewery on 
the last day of his internship, he 
admitted that the careful case 
Heritage had presented against 
affirmative action was hard to 
refute. Now, he says, he sees the 
problems with the policy he had 
supported. 


Jonathan Swanson, a Heritage intern 
last sutnmer, recounts a similar near-
transformation on the issue of gay 
marriage. He explained, "It's not indoc-
trination, it's just really persuasive." 


At most think tanks, interns act as 
researchers for the institute's full-time 
scholars, finding mentors and making 
contacts in the process. Juliet Squire, a 
two-summer AEI intern, describes the 
program as akin to "a three-month 
long interview process," one that 
brings many interns back for a position 
on the staff. Her co-intern, Matthew 
Ciesielski, objects to the characteriza-
tion of AEI's internship program as a 
Republican Party feeder ("I'm not sure 
the kids think of it that way; it's not like 
they're be · 
· gin single-A and they'll 
be in the pros in twenty years."), but he 
agrees that the ties, like the experience, 
are helpful. 


Jonathan Swanson can testify to the 
potency of those ties. As a junior, he 
applied twice to intern at the White 
House, both titnes unsuccessfully. Last 
summer, 
he 
landed 
a 
Heritage 
Foundation internship ... instead. With 
Heritage on his resmne, his third White 
House internship application was 
accepted, and he spent last fall as an 
intern at the National Economic 
Council at the White House. Back at 
Yale in the spring for' his second-to-last 
semester, Swanson began organizing 
students around the same issue he had

**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

worked on for while there: adding pri-
vate accounts to social security. When 
he returned to DC for a second sum-
mer, this time to manage the group he 
had co-founded, Students to Save 
Social Security (S4), Swanson began to 
cash in on his earlier contacts. Heritage 
staffers provided hiin and his student 
colleagues with advice on eve 
· g 
from getting an op-ed into the. paper 
("If you say you have twelve chapters 
in an editor's state, that helps.") to 
attracting more media coverage ("The 
media wants something to take a pic-
ture o£ I never would've thought that 
of that."). Heritage even arranged for 
the group to do a free media training 
session with the National Leadership 
Institute 
complete with television 
cameras, live callers, and professional 
producers to .critique the students on 
their_ fauX: guest appearances. 


"Little things like that are really prac-
tical,',' S~;mson said later. ''There was 
one guy in our group who's really artic-
ulate but on camera he never smiled. 
They told hirn that." 


To date, the group has opened chap-
ters at over 150 colleges, staged a 
demonstration outside the Capital, 
enjoyed modest fundraising success, and 
scored an invitation to the White House. 
Swanson himself was the focus of an 
August Washington Post at ~de about up-
and-coming political organizers. 


Like a lot of people, the Yale sen-
ior concluded that the heightened 
youth recruittnent and training efforts 
he witnessed from Republicans were 
no aberration. The right is simply bet-
ter organized overall. A key break-
through in Swanson's development of 
S4 came when he wrangled a speaker's 
spot at Grover Norquist's famous 
Wednesday morning meeting, an 
essential weekly stop for conservative 
strategists and politicians in DC. 


Swanson told the group about his 
organization and asked for any help 
people at the meeting could offer. 
''Afterwards people were coming 
around" 
here Swanson raised his


**Title: A HEAI:rHY DosE OF PANIC**
**Page number(s): 21**

y many conservatives 
own 
admission, · an 
enduring sense of panic 
has been hugely benefi-
cial to the Republican party over the



**The Yale Paradox**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
last four decades. In 1964, when 
. 
. the GOP's conservative wing final-
ly marked its ascertdancy by nomi-
nating ultra-right winger Barry 
Goldwater, 
the 
Democrats 
trounced them in all but six states. 
Buckley predicted the defeat; even 
before the results were in, he was 
encouraging his party to look ahead 
to the next battle. It wasn't until 
1980 .that far-right conservatives 
like Buckley found an ideological 
. peer in the White House. In the 
meantime, the party rallied around 
its self-image as the embattled 
underdog. Today, Republicans con-
trol the White House, both houses 
of Congress, and over half of gov-
ernorships 
but the back-to-the-
wall fighting spirit developed in the 
1960s and '70s still appears, for 
political purposes, like the gift that 
keeps on givirig. 
Most likely the movement to 
change that philosophy won't origi-
22 
nate at Yale. Here, unlike in the 
country at large, conservatives' 
sense of embattlement is often 
quite justified, and it has been for 
decades. Buckley felt it in 19 50. In 
1980, Steven Calabrasi, the founder 
of the Federalist Society, did too; 
he claims that he resolved to estab-
lish the conservative lawyers' asso-
ciation one day in a .Yale Law 
School classroom when he was one 
of only two in a class of 90 to say 
he had voted for Ronald Reagan; 
When he arrived at . Yale two 
• 
decades later, Brian Christiansen's 
' 
experience was almost identical. 
For most middle-of-the-road 
Yale liberals, no experience in a 
Yale dorm- or classroom is likely to 
be as catalyzing as this. If their 
conservative peers are correct, far 
too many of them simply assume 
that everyone · is basically liberal-
. or, at least, that· they would be if 
they thought about it a little more. 
• • 
Edelman, the director of the 
Yale-in-Washington 
program, 
thinks that is how the summer 
events calendar ended up with such 
a high proportion of conservative 
speakers, relative to Yale's typical 
bias. "Bill Kristol's office will call 
us back in a day, whereas James 
Carville won't give us the time of 
day," Edelman complained midway 
through 
summer. 
Far-left 
celebrities are hard to come by, he 
explained, and even those who are 
well known 
like Carville, a promi-
nent Democratic strategist and 
author 
are not necessarily very 
convincing. He thinks their failure 
lies in their refusal to engage the 
opposition on equal terms, prefer-


ring as they do to highlight its illog-
ic. Part of the problem may lie in 
the inherent differences between 
conservative and liberal ideologies; 
while the right can coalesce around 
a finite set of axiomatic beliefs, 
easily conveyed and universally 
applicable,. the left is by nature less 
coherent, more like a federation 
attempting to speak the aims of 
disparate citizens than a centralized 
state in which shared aims ar·e the 
uniting factor. But if that charac-
terization is accurate, liberals ought 
to have more cause for substantive 
debate, not less. And they should 
be able to refute conservative argu-
ments with considerably more 
nuance. 
A lot · of conservative under-
graduates, 
like 
Christiansen, 
would 
welcome 
change. 
Calling President Bush an idiot, 
they argue, is no substitute for 
spirited intellectual discussion 
•• 
.r ("It's just a lot of screaming," 
-scoffed Anc;lrew Bender, the YCR 
vice.-president). 
Conservative 
students. can't get away with that 
kinc;i :_: df - behavior-and they are 
" 
/ • 
better off because of it.


**Title: Orthodox Jewish Students at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
osh Baraban had the automatic motion detector in his suite's bathroom removed so that the electricity would not be automatically triggered during Shabbat. Zvika --· - Krieger rarely gets to see his best friend's a cappella group perform because the shows are usually held on Fridays and . always use microphones. Sarah Raymond . has been left in the frigid darkness of High Street on a Friday night when the gates of Old Campus are already electronically locked. She will not use her electric keycard and unlike the residential colleges, the Old Campus gates ~re not equipped for special Shabbat keys. 
Beginning on Friday night, a small group of Orthodox Jewish stuents redefines sacrifice by making simple changes in their · ·daily lives. They believe that God . . . meant for them to act this way, to : live one day in the week without effecting change, even at Yale. 
he physical traces of an Orthodox presence at Yale have only risen to prominence over the past several years, due to a flurry of events affecting Jews on campus. The first was their admission. Yale only began to admit Jews in the 1920s, and then only nominally, limiting spaces for undergraduates with quotas hovering around ten percent. When Morris Sweetkind applied to pursue graduate work in the Yale English Department, a professor named Tucker Brooke gave him this advice, "Look, Sweetkind. You're a good student, but we've never had a Jew. Don't apply. It's just a waste of time." 
Two decades later, in 1946, Yale tenured the University's first Jewish professor, Paul Weiss of the philosophy department. And by 1970 one out of every six professors was Jewish. Between 1970 and the late 1990s, the presence of Jews on campus was felt socially and academically, as Hillel, founded in 1941, and the judaic studies department established themselves as significant elements of Yale's repertoire. Up to that point, the brief history of Jews at Yale reveals an obvious trend: growth. 


ut in 1997, the community was stunted (and stunned) by the "Yale Five,"a 1997 juridical rebellion of five Orthodox freshmen who sued the University for refusing to provide same-sex housing accommodations they deemed necessary to uphold their belief that men and women should not reside together until marriage. As the Yale Daily News reported on September 24, 1997, in an article entitled "Lawyer for students calls Yale ~intolerant,"' the court case polarized the campus: "The issue has raised a firestorm of controversy on campus, as some in the Yale community have thrown their support behind the students while others including other Ort:hod·ox Jewish students and faculty· -.members dismiss the :-,' clai1;TI_s - ~-s groundless." 


The affair became a political debacle. The official legal claim of the "Yale Five" contended that Yale's housing policy violated the Sherman Anti-Trust Act by tying together the businesses of education and housing. But supporters of the Orthodox students further vilified Yale, arguing the institution d_id not · support religious tolerance and was violating the basic civil liberties of the students. The personalities involved fueled the fire. Defense lawyer Nathan Lewin, along with Rabbi Daniel Greer, a father and uncle to defendants and a prominent ultra-Orthodox New Haven Rabbi, garnered national media attention with public conservative insult, even going so far as to call Yale's commitment to student life "phony." But on December 28, 2000, the "Yale Five" became the Yale zero when the Second Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a 1998 U.S. District Court decision, ruling that the plaintiffs could have selected to attend another university if they felt Yale's housing policy violated their religious convictions. The January 12, 2001 announcement of the verdict in the Yale Daily News stated, "The ruling has probably ended the students' legal battles, much to the relief of the Yale Orthodox community." 


But even if damaged their vision of what the community of Orthodox students at Yale stands for. Zvika, an Orthodox student who volunteers at the admissions office and actively recruits Orthodox Jewish students, sees first-hand the detrimental effect the court case had on the public perception of Jewish community and identity at Yale. Some Orthodox students will not consider Yale, he says, going so far as resentfully refusing to visit: "People will say, 'Oh; you go to Yale. Do you live in the dorms?' The Yale Five is a huge stigma we still have to fight




**Title: The Yale Five and the Orthodox Jewish Community**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
ere) a 
one o 
against when we are recruiting 
Orthodox Jews." Considering the 
omnipresence of the issue for 
Orthodox Jews at Yale, Rabbi 
Shlomo Shulman, another Yale 
graduate 
as well as rabbi, parent, 
and 
leader of 
Yale's Jewish 
' Awareness America Maimonides 
Leader's 
Fellowship 
Program 
OAAM) 
has his own opinion: "I 
certainly . believe 
that 
as 
an 
American and a Yale alumnus that 
the Yale Five decision was unjust . 
and not consistent with the liber-
al, anti-discrimination platform of 
the University." 
Last year, two Harvard gradu-
ates 
published . a 
pamphlet 
addressing the moral residue the 
Yale Five case left on the academ-
ic world. The premise of the pam-
phlet, 
"A 
Parents 
Guide 
to 
en z 
Orthodox 
Assimilation 
on 
. 
University Campuses," stresses 
that if parents want their · kids to 
maintain a high level of religiosity, 
then they shouldn't turn to vaunt-
ed Ivy League schools · as the edu-
cational paradigm. But Rabbi 
Shulman, who graduated from the 
University in 1989, is an_ anomaly; 
he became Orthodox during his 
four years in New Haven. He sug-
gests that the Yale Five decision 
turned away Orthodox students 
because some people were eager 
to interpret Yale's position, per-
haps incorrectly, as a rejection 
of God. 
The compounded effect of this 
relatively short history and the 
"Yale Fiv~" incident is apparent in 
the dem<;>graphic of the communi-
ty today. Though estimates are


Amaris Singer, a Maimonides graduate} Rabbi Shulman} and a visiting Orthodox Rabbi. 
28 
• • 
.. 
ene 
aces zn 
that about one-quarter, to · one-
third 
of 
undergraduates · are 
Jewish, within that group, the 
University's Orthodox community 
is tiny. Compared to the extensive 
networks of Orthodox students · 
that Ivy League schools like 
Columbia 
University 
Pennsylvania have been able to 
attract, largely due to New York 
Philadelphia's 
vibrant 
Orthodox communities, very . few 
Orthodox students matriculate at 
Yale each year. The ·reasons for 
this discrepancy are both.structural 
self-perpetuating. Orthodox 
Jews who do select Yale are inher-
ently making a statement and tak-
ing a risk. At Yeshiva University, 
a Jewish college that many kids 
who are products of Orthodox 
upbringings choose to attend, the 
customs that these students had 
been taught all their lives are rein-
forced; at Yale, students must 
elect to follow the customs at all, 
and even then, reinforcing them is 
very difficult. Elsewhere, the sac-
rifices made by Orthodox stu-
dents like Josh, Sarah and Zvika 
are commonplace. At Yale, it con-
tributes 
their 
sense 
in di vi duality. 
Still, it is hard for the trio to 
· ignore that their O..rthodox friends 
at Penn and Columbia are having 
very different, less exacting social 
experiences at college. At Yale, 
practical issues stand in the way of .. 
daily devotion. "At Columbia they 
have ten different services a day," 
says Zvika. "At Yale, we have a 
mere three: a pragmatic example 
of why it is easier to be observant 


--- Page 29 ---

in a large community." And on a 
good day, the Yale Orthodox 
minyans 
prayer services 
usually 
attract just over the requisite min-
imum 
quorum 
ten 
men. 
Consistently following the Jewish 
tenets specified in the Torah and 
Halacha, the book of Jewish law, 
becomes much simpler when a 
group of 500 people, rather than a 
fistful, make collective lifestyle 
choices. At Yale Orthodox Jews 
are forced to perform rituals in a 
context that makes them seem 
unusual. Here, at one of the most 
enlightened places in the world, 
· some people just don't get it. 
For Sarah Raymond, this was 
iniFially frustrating. Last year, as a 
freshman, she struggled to recon-
cile who she· was ' as a religious 
woman with who she would be as 
Yale woman. And she had a lot of 
-::..-· 
choice( -":~The Jewish community 
here, especially the Orthodox 
community, is very different. At 
other schools people may find the 
community to be oppressive and 
issues become polarized," she 
explains. When things are polar-
ized, the choices are clear cut, 
making it easier to be religious 
and rely on the community. But 
Yale's Orthodox Jews _are a grab 
bag, a microcosm of the national 
community of Orthodox Jews: 
Some like the festivity of the Chai 
Society, others the warmth of 
Slifka. To some Orthodox Jews, 
this diversity is contradictory to 
their sectarian beliefs. 
But the 
model seems to work at Yale, 
largely due to the diffuse nature 
of the Jewish community on cam-
pus in general. 
One symbol of this diversity is 
the Joseph Slifka Center for 
Jewish Life at Yale. Home to the 
student group Yal_e Hillel, the cen-
ter serves both Jews and non-
Jews. This vision of Slifka as a 
multi-cultural institution is prob-
September 2005 
lematic for some Orthodox Jews 
who feel that at Yale, Sli.fka is all 
they've got and that it should exist 
to meet their demands. As a cul-
tural and not always traditionally 
religious institution, Slifka Center 
with expectations about the com-
munity, and an uncompromising 
mindset on issues like gender, has 
caused the community to become 
more conservative 1n tts practices. 
The addition of a full time rabbi


A jovial group cf Maimonides students and Rabbi Shulman;~ famify devour Kosher pizza. 
is thus a place where all Jews are 
welcome, but where some may 
feel out of place. 
"By nature, the Orthodox com-
munity tends to be overpowering 
because they have so many needs," 
Zvika admits. But he knows that 
being at Yale precludes the possibil-
ity of an exclusively Orthodox facil-
ity. Yale's small Ortliodox popula-
tion cannot command the space or 
the attention that they might at 
other schools. And as the court 
decision stipulated 
they chose this 
life . .. "The kind of people who can 
stay religious at Yale are the kind of 
people who -thrive on challenges, 
who like obstacles," remarks Zvika. 
Not all of those obstacles 
come from outside the Jewish 
or 
even the Orthodox 
community. 
Some students believe that an 
influx of Orthodox undergradu-
ate males admitted between 2001 
and 2003, men who came to Yale 
in ·2002, Rabbi Jason Rappaport, 
may have similarly impacted the 
community. Some undergraduates 
who pray and study with Rabbi 
Rappaport have characterized him 
as "right-wing" on issues such as' 
the participation of women in the, 
mitryan, even on high holidays such' 
as Yom Kippur, which demands 
25 hours of davaning, or prayer. 
The friction over these issues 
is indicative of a larger conflict 
within 
Orthodox Judaism, 
in 
which no mainstream rabbis have ' 
endorsed the larger role 
for 
women in services that more left-
leaning students are demanding. 
Some more liberal-minded gradu-
ate students have stopped attend-
ing the Orthodox services as a 
result of Rabbi Rappaport's atti-
tude. One graduate student sup-
posedly went so far as to call 
Rabbi 
Rappaport "dishonest." 
Another student, however, dis-


--- Page 30 ---

mtsses 
crttcs 
Rappaport as ccstudents who are 
frustrated with Orthodox Judaism 
in general and are simply throwing 
stones at Yale's rabbinic figure." 
The debate has fomented largely 
beneath the surface, but its effects 
are definitely felt. 
Among the Orthodox Jews, 
Sarah acknowledges, "Being a 
woman and being Orthodox. is an 
issue on everyone's mind." 
Her 
comment is indicative of a certain 
degree of con1placency in the 
Orthodox community when it 
comes to women, especially the 
place of a woman in an Orthodox 
minyan. In general, at Yale, Sarah is 
not allowed 
to lead services, 
though outside of her religious 
life, the school encourages her to 
30 
er o 
speak her mind. 
"Gender is always a lively dis-
cussion at our Sunday night pizza 
and learning," Josh says diplomat-
ically, of the weekly forum he 
helps organize for the graduate 
undergraduate . Orthodox 
community. One step in the right 
direction is the New Minyan, a 
prayer service Sarah has some-
times chosen to attend because it 
perm1ts women to lead sections . 
But the service is not a staple on 
campus 
like 
the 
standard 
Orthodox minyan. Sarah observes 
that the New Minyan has faced 
some resistance: "We have had a 
problem getting a requisite ten 
men. If Orthodox men don't feel 
comfortable, they could actively 
recruit any Jewish men. I haven't 
voiced this suggestion to anyone, 
and I most definitely should have 
done so and have the opportunity 
to do so." 
Sarah's peers encounter daily 
tension between modern life and 
traditional religious values. This is 
something that Zvika, · Josh and 
Sarah have learned by 
b~ing 
S homer S habbos, following the tra-
ditional laws for the strict obser-
vance of the Sabbath. While none 
of them write, drive, carry money 
or keys, use . their cell phones or 
check their e-mail between sun-
down on Friday and sundown on 
Saturday, the three students make 
... 
sz on 
individual choices about what 
S homer S habbos means in a college 
context. 
, 
These choices became more 
significant for all of them at Yale 
given the school's weekend-domi-
nated social scene. Suddenly, the 



**Observant and Hip: Orthodox Students at Yale**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Sabbath has the potential to be a 
social hindrance. "It is personal 
what is in the spirit of Shabbat," 
says Zvika. He considers "hang-
ing out" on Friday night okay, but 
he draws the line at parties or 
events with music or electricity, 
opting for more laid-back Shomer 
S habbos-friendly fetes. Zvika, a 
founding 
brother 
of 
Alpha 
Epsilon Pi 
a popular Jewish fra-
ternity at Yale established two 
years ago 
is trying to be a model 
of an observant yet hip Orthodox 
Jew. "It's hard to argue that get-
ting drunk is against the Torah," 
he says with fraternal spirit. He 
may not consider himself socially 
r 
restrict~d, but non-Jews and Jews 
alike might see some of Zvika's 
choices 
thpugh he is 
a 
frat 
boy 
as sociaJlir :'limiting. 

In cohtrast, Josh seems to 
avoid most mainstream social 
events. Sarah is still dealing with 
the issue of whether or not to go 
out on Friday nights. "I am still 
trying to find what I feel comfort-
able with in my Jewish routine," 
she says. But for each of them, 
these are difficult decisions. 

After deferring his matricula-
tion to spend a year in I-srael, 
Z vika decided to become S homer 
Negfyah, a rite that forbids him to 
touch females before he consum-
mates 
his 
marriage. 
As 
he 
explains: "When I got to Yale I 
told everyone about it. I made a 
big deal about it. It was easier that 
way because it was a big deal-
"'Oh, you're the guy who can't 
touch girls!'" Zvika and Josh, who 
is also Shomer Negfyah, do not face 
anything Orthodox men of the 
past were not used to. In the late 
1980s, Rabbi Shlomo Shu1man faced 
sin1iJar challenges as he grew into his 
Orthodoxy, also incorporating S homer 
Negjyah into his undergraduate life. 
He offers an anecdote about the diffi-
culty of appreciating S homer Neg!yah 
September 2005 
on a co-ed campus: "There was a 
somewhat promiscuous woman ·who 
hugged someone and then yelled to 
me, 'I can't hug you, you're Shomer 
Negjyah.' 
I did not want to hug her 
anyways ... ·but because she said that, I 
thought I should be more careful. 
Shomer Negjyah was a mitzvah I did not 
fully realize until I graduated." 

One 
milestone 
Rabbi 
Shulman's journey to Orthodoxy 
traces the recent historical pres-
ence of Orthodox Judaism in the 
Yale community. He nostalgically 
recalls that when he joined the 
Kosher _Kitchen in the fall of . 
1987, it was located in the base-
ment of 305 Crown Street. "My 
job was to be in charge of the 
bagel brunches. 
I was proud of 
them. I would bribe people to 
drive me to Manhattan, but we 
always made a lot of money," he 
recalls jocularly. The establish-
ment of a Kosher Kitchen, how-
ever makeshift, was a step in the 
right direction. A turning paint 
came eight years later in 1995 
when the ribbon was cut to open 
the Slifka center on Wall Street, 
finally a monument of the influ-
-ence of Judaism at Yale. For 
Rabbi Shulman, Slifka is the 
promised land; and Crown Street 
was a struggling kibbutz in the 
desert. "Then, it was us against 
the world fighting for survival," as 
Shulman describes. "The minyan 
was very hamish)" he says, noting 
the beauty of its simplicity and 
hominess; "and I hope they don't 
lose that now being that it is fancy 
and beautiful." 


ecently, Rabbi Shulman 
felt stirred to become a 
new presence on campus, 
one decisively aimed at reviving 
religion as a force in the lives of 
the University's Jewish students. 
With his partner and wife Aviva, 
he founded a Yale branch of a


**Reviving Religion at Yale**
**Page number(s): 32**

nationally-funded Jewish educa-
tional program geared towards 
reconnecting Jewish college stu-
dents with their rich religious her-
itage. Every Tuesday night last 
semester, he eagerly commanded a 
second floor classroom of Linsly-
Chittenden Hall to show a batch 
of students how Judaism is inte-
gral to the practical aspects of 
everyday life. Participants received 
a $500 stipend. 

Last year's group, a small, 
hand-picked assortment of gradu-
ate and undergraduate students, 
all Jewish, many only by birth, 
received Rabbi Shulman's words 
with the finesse of true Yalies. 
They questioned. They probed. 
They learned. They refuted. They 
argued. They dismissed. They 
accepted 
hesitantly. 
They 
probed again. Prominent profes-
32 
sionals 
from 
the 
national 
Orthodox community visited as 
lecturers to discuss the spiritual 
and material value -of leading an 
Orthodox life. Shabbaton week-
end trips to Rabbi Shulman's 
homogenous Orthodox neighbor-
hood in Waterbury, · Connecticut 
offered an on-site glimpse into the 
nuances of Orthodox life in the 
real world. Students lived with 
other rabbis and their families for 
a weekend, experiencing the cus-
tom and emotion of the Sabbath 
first-hand. 

Through all of these initiatives, 
Rabbi Shulman hopes to prepare stu-
dents for Jewish life, something that at 
best, Yale can do only half-heartedly. 
''Mairnonides has given me a greater 
appreciation for the gift of life and 
God's presence in the world," says 
Michael Rucker, a graduate of the pro-
gram. "But, there are still many ques-
tions that have not been answered for 
me. I am a true believer in openness to 
new ideas and people and I feel that any 
conservative belief system is dangerous. 
Although Judaism allows for question-
ing, which is very important and differ-
ent than most conservative ideologies, a 
strict religious doctrine causes sepa-
ratism no matter how you look at it." 

Rabbi Shultnan is teaching skeptical Jews 
about the importance of sacrifice in the 
name of religion. And this s~mester his 
mission continues. He may not succeed 
in cultivating a new generation of 
Orthodox Jews, but he is reinforcing the 
existence of that community at Yale and 
in the world. 

Romy Drucker, a junior in Davenport 
College, is Editor-in-Chief of TN]. 
TNJ 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Title: THE HISTORY OF "YALE"**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ad Cotton Mather, presi-
dent of a school called 
Collegiate, had the fore-
sight in 1718 to hire a brand 
management 
professional, 
doubtless "Yale" would have 
been cut from the list of edgy 
names for America's next great 
university. While these days 
ascendant universities pay high-
earning professionals to revamp 
their names and images, Mather 
kept it 
simple. 
Elihu 
Yale 
. 
. . 
donated · 560 sterling pounds 
worth of . books: although his 
own experience had more to do 
with 
colonial administration 
than academia, Yale's name was 
emblazoned onto American aca,... 
demic history. 

Given this haphazard start, 
Yale has built up substantial 
brand equity over the years, 
rounding off a basic liberal arts . 
education with sister schools of 
forestry, 
law, medicine, and 
business. To its students, Yale 
University is a mark 'of distinc-
tion forever headlining their 
resumes. To the University's 
Vice President and Secretary 
and 
the 
University 
Licensing 
Department, 
name is a trademark to be 
guarded from "misrepresenta-
36 
tion to the public." 

Yet despite Linda I<och 
Lorimer's tireless watch, Yale's 
image has a few hidden dimen-
sions. In fact, the three "yale" 
en tries in the Oxford English 
Dictionary have little to do with 
ivory 
towers 
academic 
excellence. With almost 2000 
years of use . behind it, errant 
meanings and associations can 
slip between the phonemes of 
even the most stalwart name. 

Like the rich, eccentric uncle 
who avoids family reunions and 
forgets to send birthday checks, 
the Yale student body has gen-
erally 
ignored 
its 
nominal 
cousins, perhaps to its own loss. 

These eccentric allusions may 
chip away at Yale's jealously 
guarded brand purity, but just 
like Elihu, they are part of the 
Yale narrative. 

77: Pliny the Elder introduces a 
beast called the eale (Latin) to 
the ancient world in his Natural 
Histories. The "yale" (English 
translation) sized up to ele-
phants and hippopotami, but its 
defining feature was its horns, 
which swiveled forward in bat-
tle. Some scholars have identi-
fied Pliny's yale with the Indian 
water buffalo. 

1443: John, third son of Henry 
IV, 
becomes . the 
Earl 
of 
Kendal. He adopts the yale as 
his supporter: and as one of the 
Royal Beasts of England. The 
beast resembled an antelope, 
with the tail of a lion or goat, 
again 
horns 
that 
swiveled on their own. In 1443, 
the Earldom passed to John 
Beaufort, who kept the yale as a 
supporter. Now the creature 
was speckled with gold bezants 
the characteristic markings of 
Beaufort, and enhanced with a 
pair of sharp tusks. 

15th 
Century: 
In 
medieval 
Wales, the Yal, Jal, or Ial district 
was an upland region ringed b y 
hills. By the late 1400s, this 
area, together with an adjoining 
district, had betome the lord-
ship of Yale and Bromfield, in 
the county Denbigh. 
Welsh 
children 
usually 
took 
their 
fathers' given names as sur- ·· 
names; no one system dictated 
custom, however, and some 
took an estate or a district for a 
surname. In this way, the word 




**Title: A Brief History of the Name Yale**
**Author: Sarah Laskow (a Senior at Davenport College) Editor of TNJ**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
' 
.:.:. . .,... 
:-
,:• 
; ...... , 
.• 
.~ .... -. 
¢' 
'• 
•' 
~- . . 
%·»- '!• 
-:-
-: 
·> 
;; 
. 
:- . 
-~ 
.... 
., . 
::. 
-~.«. t, .. 
Yale became a name. 
16th Century: Dr. Thomas Yale 
is the first to officially dub 
himself a Yale. 
1687: Elihu Yale, a long time employ-
ee of the British East India Company, 
becomes governor of Madras. 
ran 
lock, which opens only when a 
certain number of pins moves 
the correct distance. He names 
"the world's favorite lock" after 
himself. It is now universal. 
1869: J.D. Whitney, head of the 
Harvard School of Mining, leads an 
expedition of the school's inaugu-
ral class to Colorado, where the 
mountains were rumored to sur-
pass even the tallest California 
peaks. At 14,202 feet, the eighth 
highest peak in the range that the 
class explored was named Mount 
Yale, after Whitney's alma mater. 
Mount Harvard is 14, 420 feet tall, 
Mount Oxford 14, 160 feet. 
1886: When a raging fire destroys 
much of Vancouver, the Yale Hotel, 
where workers in the ·new communi-
ty relaxed after work, survived. After 
the fire, the hotel's popularity as a 
hang-out sky-rocketed and it was 
renamed "the Colonial" in 1889. 
1899: In Alaska, the Harriman 
1653: As a four year-old, Elihu a 
Yale, who was born in Boston, 
catches 
a 
last 
breath 
of 
arva~ 
nn zn 
roo 
America before sailing with his 
family to England. Coincidentally, 
his grandmother, in her second 
marriage, wed the governor of 
the New Haven Colony. 
38 
an 
zres 
1718: Elihu 
Yale 
saves 
. Collegiate College 
... ·•· • ·: · from early demise 
• . . 
=· ·. ., 
with a large dona-
tion of books. The 
school uses the funds to re-
locate to a single building in New 
Haven, named after its benefactor. 
1840s or 50s: Linus Yale, a 
descendent 
Elihu's, 
designs a serrated key, 
that fits into a matching 
one. 


Exposition discovers college fjord. 
Yale finally has its own glacier. 
1906: W. Denny & Brothers, a 
Scottish ship-building company, 
designs the early 20th century 
version of a !oyota Prius: The 
ships 
operated 
on 
turbine 
propulsion and, in their third 
year, were converted to run on 
oil rather than coal. In 1906; 
the two boats 
the Yale and the 
Harvard 
began to run a route 
between Boston and New York. 
During World War I, the two 


boats traveled to England and 
pitched in for the Allies. 
Early 
20th 
Century: 
Italian 
gangster 
Francesco 
Loele moves to 
-
i 
. " 
•• 
Bro9kly?, calls 
him~e1f~, Frankie Yale, sets up 
headq'barters at the Harvard Inn 
in 
Brooklyn 
and 
hires 
Al 
Capone. 
1935: "Hold 'em 
mieres. The movie 
ordeal of rich deb 
Cleve. After New 
Yale" pre-
follows the 
Clarice Van 
York gang-
sters kidnap her and .her father 
refuses to pay ransom, Clarice's 
assailants rig the Yale-Harvard 
game and wed Clarice to Yale's 
young 
football 
star, 
Hector Wilmot. 
1980s: 
Collegiate 
licencsing comes into 
vogue. Yale hires an 
outside firm to acitvely 
pursue 
licensing 
the 
University's marks. In 
1995, 
University 
moves 
program 
under its own auspices. 
2004: No longer satisfied with the 
professional quality of the Monoface 
font De Aetna, Yale University com-
missions a font bearing its name 
Yale Administrative Roman typeface-
for use in all official communication. 
2005: Chloe Does Yale makes the 
New York Times Best Seller list. 
f Natalie Krinsky's masterpiece 
hasn't undermined the strength 
of the Yale brand, nothing can. 
While 
merchandise 
has 
brought us plenty of memorable 
appa 
over 
yea 
ass1cs 
include the baby-wear and future 
president lines 
there are many 
more brilliant tie-ins just waiting for 
exploration: the Yale yale mascot 
with accompanying Harvard stu-
dent engorged on its horns, a whole 
genre of Yale football movies, and a 
Yale-affiliated underground crime 
ring in memory of Frankie Yale. 
The possibilities are endless. 
S arab 
Laskow1 
Davenport College) 
Editor of TN]. 
Senior 
• zn 
is a Senior 
TNJ 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• large red notebook lies in 
the backseat of my car, 
slotted between the week-
ly 
newspapers 
from 
Denver, Milwaukee, Fargo, and a 
milk crate stuffed with road maps, 
incense, ski-vests, and a cell phone 
charger. The dirty, tattered note-
book is filled with names and pic-
tures, celebrating each person I've 
met since I drove out of New 
Haven in May. I know now that my 
efforts were insufficient, but what 
else could I do to create tangible 
memories of a summer on the road? 
In 
the 
form 
of 
a 
Kinglsey 
Fellowship, Yale wrote me a check 
for $6000 to travel across the coun-
try, interact with a broad swath of 
Americans, and use my experiences 
to compose a play. The play has yet 
to be written, but the people I met 
are already becoming characters in 
my mind. 


One get-to-know-you conversa-
tion after another, proved that 
everyone in AmeriCa talks about the 
· same things; and I would offer simi-
lar pieces of information about my 
own life again and again, like a sit-
com reintroducing its characters on 
each episode. If asked about my ori-
gins, I'd say that I was from New 
Haven; I preferred not to discuss my 
childhood in Atlanta unless it served 
as a setting for a story or saved me 
from,. ''Oh, so you're a Yankee?" I 
wanted to inhabit the role of a per-
petual traveler, a curious and fun-
loving girl with only a car and a few 
colorful stories. 
Did I squeeze 
myself into a stereotype? I met a girl 
•• 
42 
• 
named Mollie with the same story in 
Eugene, Oregon. 
I never saw her again, and prob-
ably never will; but she will be forev-
er summarized in my notebook as 
the traveler I met at the Oregon 
Country Fair. Ben from Seattle, on 
the other hand, deserves a more 
detailed description. By the time we 
had finished "rocking Portland," as 
he put it, we actually felt like we 
knew each other. 
Nonetheless, I 
have yet to muster the courage to 
write a full a·ccount of him. I doo-
dled 
his 
face 
slightly apelike, 
framed by brown dreadlocks 
and 
scribbled a few sentences about how 
we met, then left three blank sheets 
of paper and moved on to describe 
things I cared less about .. I came to 
realize that the people I grew to 
know best couldn't be confined to 
paper, could never exist again for 
me outside of our brief moments 
together. 


I generally 
• • 
recall 
my 
path 
around 
Lake 
Michigan, through South Dakota 
and Wyoming, down, up, over, back 
down, up, and over. Llano, Texas. 
Rising Sun, Kentucky. Hannibal, 
Missouri. Keokuk, Iowa. Nederland, 
Colorado. Raymond, Minnesota. 
Small-town America exists. -Big-city 
America does too;. that's where I 
found the twenty-somethings living 
in 
under-furnished : apartments, 
working as cooks, and chain-smok-
ing hand-rolled cigarettes. 
But small towns: I still dream of 
one town that I saw time and time 
again. The library was the size of 
Mamoun's, and was only open from 
2:00 to 5:00 p.m. on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays. Main Street coincided 
with state highway 34 or maybe it 
was county highway E. The old-style 
gas station mini-mart served as the 
main grocery store, which really 
meant that it sold liquor, flour, and 
.. 
... . ......_ ..... 
granulated sugar. The hand-
painted wooden signs 
were peeling, and 
when I walked 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Lane Rick**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
into the only restaurant in town, I 
stuck out like an iguana in a bowl of 
marshmallows. 

Everyone 
knew 
everyone, and I had to be ready to 
listen 
maybe even interject if I 
were bold enough 
to the town 
gossip bursting with scandal: The 
same terrible things people do to 
each other everywhere. 

People in small towns live in his-
toric districts. There is always a rail-
road or a river carrying coal-loaded 
reminders of industry and progress. 
The older residents lead slow-paced 
lives and wield a sepia-stained wis-
dom that could never mature in a 
city bustling with billboards, trends, 
and state-of-the-art technological 
devices. These small towns don't 
even get cell phone reception. Many 
of the residents work the land, and a 
good way to find a centuries-old 
farmhouse is to look for a sign by a 
mailbox advertising eggs. You have 
to drive slowly on the dirt driveway 
though, so as not to run over the 
chickens 
that 
will 
eventually 
feed you. 

I met Marjorie this way. She gave 
me a handful of eggs (which I later 
cooked on my camping stove at the 
back of a bank parking lot 
very 
September 2005 
Dharma Bums) and recalled one fasci-
nating story aJter another: child-
hood misadventures with her sis-
ter 
who lived just a mile or two 
• 
thataway 
on the farm they grew up 
on, which was about fifteen miles 
thisaway. 

Marjorie's nephew lives 
there now with · his wife and four 
kids. 

During our conversation, 
someone knocked softly on the rick-
ety screen door. It was one of 
. 
,. 
':·. 
·. 
Marjorie's grandsons, who often vis-
its her to play with the baby chickens 
in a cardboard box in the backroom. 

As I hopped into my car and 
drove off, I reached for my note-
book to record a testament to 
Marjorie. Again, I felt strained by 
my pen's 1inutations, but I had to 
memorialize her in some way before 
my car traveled too far. By sunset, I 
would have reached this big city or 
that hip college town with the week-
ly arts paper unfolded in my lap. 

Often, the name of a certain street 
' 
. ' 
or neighborhood caught my atten-
tion, and I sought to find it. Diverse 
contingents thrive in every town. I 
met small-town types and big-city 
types, Midwesterners and Pacific 
Northwesterners, the college sort 
and the "bad at school" sort; they're 
all different, yet I could relate to 
them in a bizarrely similar way. 

They offered me their stories, and I 
offered them a few of mine, and I 
began to suspect that the repetition 
I faced in my encounters was a testa-
ment to a common sympathy for the 
human experience. 

same 
those 
.. . 
.. 
No matter where I went, the 
conversations 
occurred-
famously and less-famously 
. . 
~ ,.· 
over-discussed topics. 

Weather is 
the obvious one. It's muggy in New 
Orleans, and it rains in Portland; I 
could 
describe 
a 
million 
"mishaps" 
ruined gardens, sore 
hipbones, braying animals 
all trig-
gered by the weather. Everyone 
seems to consistently share certain 
pieces of information more readily 
than others. 

Money. Everyone likes to talk 
about money. I know more salaries 
and rents and good deals than I 
could ever use in a lifetime. Jordan


--- Page 44 ---

pays $550 a month for his room in a 
four-person apartment. Alice pays 
$180. 

That . boy 
in 
Northern 
California saved $1500 to buy a 
motorcycle. An acre of land outside 
of Taos, New Mexico costs $1200. 
Larry bought his solar panel for just 
under $300 on eBay. If Scott works 
full-time for a week, he can take 
three weeks off and still pay rent 
no 
and have enough money to spend on 
food. Jacob pays $250 rent. Or 
maybe the entire apartment is $250, 
and Jacob pays $125 of it. It's qne 
detail I can't exactly remember. 

Sometimes, discussions of 
finances led to a discussion of my 
· own travels. Doesn't it cost a lot to 
drive around? Where do you get gas 
44 
money? 

"Yale gave me enough money to 
pay for my trip." 

How much? 

"Six-thousand dollars." 

· 

"You got $6000 to drive around 
the country?! Where's the catch?" 

"There isn't one." . 

"Yeah, hut what do you have to 
do?" 

0 

"I told them I'd write a play. But, 
that's not what I have to do. What I 
have to do is prove that I used the 
money to travel around the country 
in my car. Just like I'm doing." I 
don't like to tell them that they will 
end up as a page in my notebook or 
the 
phone 
numbers 
and 
addresses they give me will end up 
r 
•• 
piled on a growing stack of the 
same. Nor do I tell them that they 
may or may not be the inspiration 
for that play that I will put on in the 
fall, or that it's possible that I will 
forget them tomorrow or remember 
them forever. 

Another frequent topic was poli-
tics. Eric sat on a barstool next to me 
in New Orleans and insisted that I 
ouseJ no 
needed to "shut Yale down" in order 
to prove that th~ nation's president is 
an idiot, a protest that would surely 
end the war in Iraq. Adam wanted to 
hide behind his bong· and keep tabs 
on what was going on around his 
room 
not the country. Kyle associ-
ated Yale with George W. Bush and 
wanted to know if everyone there is 
"like that." 

''Well, I'm cer-
tainly not a younger 
female version of 
the. president." 

"No, apparent-
ly 
you 
aren't, 
they'd reply. 

For 
one, you're making 
your 
way 
alone 
around the coun-
try, risking danger 
from terrorists and 
serial killers. You 
naven't met any of 
yet, 
have 
you?" 

"Nope." 

''No creeps? I 
wouldn't trust pea-
. ple these days." 

''You can recog-
nize them." 


--- Page 45 ---

,_. 
"I'm just saying, 
be careful. Doesn't 
anyone worry about 
you or 
anything? 
Don't you get scared 
and lonely?" 

"I'm having the 
tirne of my life right 
now. Even when I'm 
sitting in my car by 
myself, I can turn the 
music up really loud 
and roll the windows 
down and watch the 
countryside pass by 
like a moving land-
scape painting. It's 
perfect." 

I'm lucky, they 
tell me. My life, they 
/ 
say, is perfect. No 
hou·s5!,. ·no_ pets, no 
boyfti~·~, no job, 
and 'a· .• Y-ale educa-
tion 
world 
must be at your feet. 

Now, as I glance 
back at the red note-
book 
sprawled 
across my backseat 
like a sleeping passenger, its p ages 
plastered with sketches, anecdotes, 
and quotes from · the people I've 
met, I fantasize and fear what they 
would write about me. 

I was somewhere south of 
Chestnut, Illinois when I made the 
connection between this fear and 
the unavoidability of forcing my 
new acquaintances 1nto stereo-
types. I had just passed the after-
noon outside a small-town gas sta-
tion discussing life, the universe, 
and everything else with 65-year 
old Bob. 

As I drove away, the 
thought of compacting him into a 
few paragraphs nearly moved me 
to tears. 

While turning onto the high-
way, I questioned my notebook, 
my method, my journey. 

I had 
spent the summer playing the 
role of a cultural an thropologist 
, but I don't think I'll ever be 
capable of boiling a 
human 
being like Bob d own to a few 
bullet points after kn owing him 
for a fe·w minutes o r hours or 
~ 
even years. 

A cross A m enca, I 
found parallels in d emeanor, 
conversation, and even cooking 
technique. 

These p arallels did-
n't justify the categoriz ation of 
my new friends, however; they 
only 
proved 
their 
c o mmon 
humanity. And why was I always 
trying to reduce real experience 
to 
bite-size 
c o cktail 
_party 
soundbytes? 

Was this the skill 
Yale 
had 
taught 
me? 

Couldn't I just le t life unfurl? 

After spending three days with 
Josh, a young man I tnet in Boulder, 
Colorado, I found myself moving 
·"·'·" 
.:-·--- --
beyond the superficial to deeper 
matters. 

Books. 

Astronomy. Jim 
Jarmusch. Vapor Caves. I wanted to 
--
hear what he had to say about Henry 
Miller, and I wanted to discuss art, 
education, and how to make the per-
fect grilled cheese sandwich. 

Like 
others before him, Josh can't be lim-
ited to college-ruled paper, but I still 
made the attempt. 

Despite the 
insufficiency of my writing, and my 
fear of anyone attempting to rewrite 
me, the pages in my notebook are 
irreplaceable memories of a sur nmer 
on the open road. Plus, my gauge 
reads 116,000. 

Lane Rick, a junior in Morse College, is a 
Circulation and S ubsciptions Manager of 
TNJ. 

45 



**Title: Yale Club Happy Hour**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• • 
to 
by Mina Kimes 
s my friend and I turned the corner of 42nd and Vanderbilt, 
she knit her brows with concern. "I heard that these guys 
were thrown out for wearing sneakers." 
I snapped my gum. "No way." 
She nodded solemnly. ''I swear ... did you look at the website?" 
The website for the Yale Club of New York devotes an entire sec-
• 
tion to the dress code. ''Inappropriate attire;' my friend parroted to me, 
"includes, but is not limited to, denim, shores, t -shirts, sandals ... " 
I swailowed my gum and assessed my post-work get-up, which 
was indisputably ''business casual," but had 
melted onto my back during the sweltering 
subway ride to Grand Central. I felt like a 
limp piece of steamed broccoli. 

I had expected more fanfare. According 
to the website, the building boasts "22 
floors of home away from home"-a fact 
that I confirmed by joy-riding the elevator. 
Hidden within its unassuming exterior are 
three top:-tier restaurants, a full gymnasium 
with squash courts, a stocked library, and 
several bedrooms that members can utilize 
as they see fit. 

Typically, membership is limited to due-
. paying Yale alumni, graduate students, and faculty. In June and July 
however, this stipulation· is lifted on Thursday evenings for a spe-
cial happy hour during which all Yale alumni are invited to enjoy 
snacks (free), alcoholic beverages (not free), and the enlightened 
company of their fellow Eli's (invaluable?). In addition to business-
men hoping to network and former art majors prowling for free 
food, the event attracts a large, fake ill-toting undergraduate pop-
ulation. 

. 
Besides the navy flag, the club's entrance was marked by a group 
of yuppies 
outside~ chain-smoking and hissing into their cell 
phones. I pulled out my Yale ID and waited. 
The doorman, however, paid me no notice, and the receptionist 
barely glanced up when we entered. I shoved my ID back int~ my 
wallet. ''I can't believe they don't check," I murmured to my friend. 
She raised her eyebrows. ''Disappointed?" 

The lobby, on the other hand, met my vision of elitist exclusivity; 
the mahogany decor, plush carpeting, and austere portraits all 
matched the style I'd come to associate with Ivy League traditional-
ism. A grandfather clock ticked menacingly by the coat check, and 
two men seated in overstuffed arm chairs stroked their beards. 

We followed a noisy group of freshmen to the third floor. I .ike 
the foyer, the furnishings were dark wood. Chandeliers swung from 
the vaulted ceiling, and old photographs and dimly-lit sconces decked 
the walls. The ambience of the gigantic room was only disrupted by 
the crowds of raucous drinkers. The resulting mood was a cross 
between a speakeasy and an upscale ski lodge; I half expected to see 
Al Capone saunter in wearing a pink parka. 

As we wriggled to the bar, I bumped into Pete, a senior who told 
46 
me where to buy a drink ticket. His voice was barely audible amidst 
the clatter of huge gilded cups of beer banging against the tables. 
After procuring an overpriced glass of merlot, I scanned the crowd 
for classmates interning in New York for the summer. There were a 
few familiar faces, but the scene was dominated by graduates. In a city 
renowned for its diverse fashion sensibility, the look of the Yale Club 
was surprisingly square. As I navigated the room, I couldn't help but 
feel as though I was drowning in a sea of polo shirts, pearls, and pastel 
. Before sitting down, we made a pit stop for food. Again, my hopes 
were squashed; instead of fancy hors d'oeu-
vres, there were punch bowls brimming 
with Ruffles. A waiter waltzed by me, 
squeezing ranch dressing into plastic cups 
and spooning salsa out of a jar. 
''It's like a cheap bar mitzvah;' I whis-
pered.· 
"Hey, they're serving chili out of the 
same things they'- use in the dining halls!" 
She gestured towards hot, trays mounted 
over flames like pedestals - monuments to 
-
canned beans and Spam. As we sat down, 
_ I eyed two bins resembling the containers 
used to store jungle juice. A sign that read 
"decaf" was taped to one of them, assuaging 
my fears that I'd stumbled into a frat party. 

While drinking and nibbling on wings, our table assessed the 
crowd. Bald spots and canes notwithstanding, most of the graduates 
could pass for current students. Phrases like "post-colonialism," ''lit-
igate," and "keg stand" exploded across the room like fireworks. I 
pointed out a table of lookalikes wearing identical Yale ties. 
Nat, a junior, smirked and stroked his buzz cut "This is one of 
the creepiest scenes you'll find;' he said. 
"That's kind of pessimistiC:' argued Alice, also a junior. ''I mean, 
there's something to be said for the tradition. It's fun to see Yale 
friends in the city 
like a home away from home." 

Despite the deflation of my shi-shi expectations and my distaste 
for blue-blooded homogeneity 
an admittedly hypocritical combi-
nations of biases 
I found myself agreeing with Alice. After spend-
ing the summer in a city bursting with strangers, attending happy 
hour did make me feel as though I was a part of something. 

My thoughts wete interrupted by a heavy ~lash on my shoulder. 
I turned and saw an huge blond man trudging by with an overflow-
ing Mary's cup. 
"Sorry," he said sheepishly. 
I smiled and shrugged. like Yale, happy hour is a crossroads 
between Ivy League tradition and Animal House antics. To be a part · 
of it means accepting the occasional waterfall of cheap beer. 
Mina Kimes, a junior in Davenport Coikge, is Production Manager o 
TN.l 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Title:  Untitled Advertisement for The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 47**

•• • 
I 
' 
j 
-. 
. . ' 
I don't want to 
work for The New 
Journal! 1 have better 
things to do with my 
time than work for a 
magazine that has 
received every major 
writing prize at Yale 
as well as the Rolling 
Stone College 
Journalism Award. 
Besides, you and I both 
know that The New 
Journal is just a training 
ground formedia types 
like TNJ founder, and 
Pulitzer Prize winner, 
Daniel Yergin or past . 
TNJ staffer, and editor 
of the Chicago 
:'/ 
·}.· 
> Tribune, Jack Fuller. 
_: 
< 
··•••: r ··•···· And you think just 
c;,:, 
.•
.. ·--· •. _ 
.•.. because The New 
"'"'··- · · .· Journal is the oldest 
magazine at Yale and 
also has the largest 
circulation, I'm 
·supposed to be 
· ··· · · · •···· .. -·· impressed? Give me 
some credit. So, l .. beg 
of you, go ask someone 
who cares . 

Well, while we won't be seeing him at any TNJ meetings, we would 
love to see you! The New Journal is looking for innovative writers, DTP demigods, 
cutting-edge designers, dynamic photographers, artistes extraordinaires, business 
tycoons, and interested, interesting Yalies in general. If one of the above applies to 
you, come to one of our two snappy organizational meetings or call us. 
September 2005 
47 

