Publication date: December 1, 1989
Volume: 22
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: David King
- Editor-in-Chief: Ruth Conniff
- Managing Editors: David Greenberg, Motoko Rich
- Business Manager: Jerry Hwang
- Designer: Stephen Hooper
- Production Manager: Lisa Silverman
- Photography Editor: John Kim
- Associate Editor: Stefanie Syman
- Associate Photography Editor: Jennifer Pitts
- Associate Designer: Ethan Cohen
- Circulation Manager: Chris Warfield
- Subscription Manager: Adrienne Lo
- Staff: Hank Hsu, Ellen Katz, Kevin Klein, Andrea Assarat, Janet Chung, Eric Fisher, Matt Fleischer, Julie Hantman, E. Stewart Moritz, Josh Plaut


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Letters
- NewsJournal
- War Rages at Local Paper - Roy Tsao
- New Haven's Drinking Problem - Milma Novy and Stefanie Syman
- Speaking with Woodward - Jack Wills
- Silber's Solution - David Greenberg


**Title: Letters**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: NewsJournal**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: War Rages at Local Paper**
**Author: Roy Tsao**
**Page number(s): 8**

War Rages at Local Paper
The feisty New Haven Independent burst onto the scene in 1986, giving a voice to 
the city's neighborhoods. But this year a clash between idealistic editors and a frustrated 
business department sent one writer to the hospital and the rest of the staff out on the 
pavement. By Roy Tsao.


**Title: New Haven's Drinking Problem**
**Author: Milma Novy and Stefanie Syman**
**Page number(s): 16**

New Haven's Drinking Problem
Yale students and local residmts rarely stop to think about the water they dn"nk. But 
what they t:Wn't know could hurl them. Bacteria, chemicals and tiny bits of lead in the 
city's water threaten everyone's health. By Milma Novy and Stejanie Syman.


**Title: Speaking with Woodward**
**Author: Jack Wills**
**Page number(s): 22**

Speaking with Woodward
Fifoen years ago, History Professor C. Vann Woodward wrote Yale's policy on free 
expression. Now, at 81, he remains outspoken about free speech, race relations and the 
role of the historian. By Jack Wills.


**Title: Silber's Solution**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 26**

Silber's Solution
John Silber, Boston University's stridnu presidmt, has long battled liberal students and 
professors. In a controversial new book, he sets out to cure not only the problems of 
higher education, but also the moral decline of America. By David Greenberg.


**Letters to the Editor**
**Author: George D. Yancy**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editor, 
It appears that Theroux has failed to 
make an important distinction: the 
is/ought or descriptive/normative 
distinction. Such a distinction must be 
taken into consideration when asses-
sing Dr. 
Poussaint's emphasis on 
isolating the factor of "anger" in 
~eference to the Central Park "rape" 
ISSUe. 

By isolating as essential the ques-
tion "Why these [black] kids were 
angry," it is clear that Dr. Poussaint is 
working with the Freudian presupposi-
tion that what we observe as an overt 
behavioral pattern (in this case "rape" 
or "mugging") may very well result 
from 
some hidden (unconscious) 
variable. 

Now, by appealing to this type of 
descriptive theoretical explanation, 
Dr. 
Poussaint is not trying to 
vindicate the 
perpetrators of 
their pernicious and moraily inept act. 
That is, it is important to separate the 
descriptive explanatory function of 
"anger" as used by Dr. Poussaint from 
a normative judgment. It is by blur-
ring such a distinction that Prof. 
Theroux draws the erroneous implica-
tion that Dr. Poussaint is attempting to 
covertly exempt the perpetrators from 
blame. 

Now concerning Theroux's usage of 
a certain term. As a scholar of Letters, 
he should have been more tactful, to 
say the least, in his selection of the 
word "monkeys" to describe the black 
men who "raped" the jogger. Yes, we 
as Afro-Americans 
are throwing a 
"shit-fit," to use Theroux's turn of 
phrase, for "monkey" suggests sub-
rational and sub-human themes. 
Theroux, of all people, should have 
known that during the 1600s (among 
Englishmen, Elizabethan travelers and 
literati) Africans were equated with 
monkeys to sustain the inner-logic 
"justifying" the view that they were 
uncivilized, irrational and lascivious 
people. Hence, to use the word within 
the context of describing the black men 
who "raped" the jogger tends to invoke 
(even if Theroux did not intend the 
word to do so) the false and racist 
image that Africans and AfrC?-Ameri-
4 The New Journal/December I, 1989 
cans are by nature 
monkey-like 
creatures, bestial and wanton. Given 
the stigmatic historical association of 
the word with Africans in the past, it is 
difficult to excuse Theroux's lack of 
awareness concerning the social, 
psycho-linguist_ic import that 
the word has for Afro-Americans 
today. 

Perhaps more of Theroux's surface-
grammar needs to 
be closely 
psychoanalyzed. 
George D. Yancy 
GRD '92 


**Author: Mark G. Barksdale**

I read with a resigned sense of dismay 
your article "Poison Pen: A Yale 
English Professor Writes up a Storm of 
Controversy" (TNJ, October 20, 1989) 
for 
it 
reveals 
the 
common 
misunderstanding which exists 
concerning the word "racism." 

When Professor Theroux makes the 
statement "[i]t's very interesting how 
racism always seems to be against 
whites," it indicates that he does not 
realize racism is an institutionalized 
system of oppression or subjugation 
used to maintain the power of one 
racial group over another racial group, 
which can be propagated through the 
words, actions or, indeed, inactions of 
an institution as well as through those 
individuals associated with that 
institution. Given the position of 
Blacks in America today vis-a-vis 
Whites, it would be a contradiction in 
terms to say that Blacks can be racist. 

Remarks such as those he made in 
his letter on Yale stationery to Dr. 
Poussaint concerning the Central Park 
rape incident, in which he refers to the 
Black and Brown suspects involved in 
case as 
being subhuman 
"monkeys," are not only bigoted but 
are raised to the level of racism by 
bearing what appears 
to be the 
imprimatur of an institution such as 
Yale University. Parenthetically, one 
wonders whether he would refer to the 
White attackers of Yusuf Hawkins in 
Bensonhurst, · Brooklyn as being 
"monkeys." 

· It is certain that the Central Park 
rape incident was a tragedy and that 
such acts of violence should not be 
condoned or excused. It is equally 
certain that reactions such as Professor 
Theroux's which bear the mark of 
racism, whether intentional or 
otherwise, should not be condoned or 
excused either. 
Mark G. Barksdale 
Yale Law '91 


**Author: Erwin Knoll**

The piece I found most interesting in 
your last issue was the one about Pro-
fessor Theroux and his peculiar letter. 
Somehow, I had missed this brouhaha. 
It raises so many important and com-
plicated issues- about racism, sexism, 
semantics, and free-speech rights. My 
own sense is that Theroux wrote a very 
dumb letter- but not nearly as dumb 
as the people demanding that he be 
fired for writing it. Since when does 
sheer stupidity (or, for that matter, 
malice) disqualify one from teaching at 
a great American university? I suspect, 
in fact, that these are often prere-
quisites for the work. 
Erwin Knoll 
Editor 
Tlu Progressive Magazine 


**Model Building**
**Author: Laura London**
**Page number(s): 5**

N ewsJ ournal 
Model Building 
The black and silver plaque marking 
Cesar Pelli & Associates' Chapel Street 
office hides in the shadows of the 
doorway. Upstairs, ajumble of rooms, 
annexed one by one as the architec-
tural firm has expanded, 
spreads 
throughout three floors. Models of 
different sizes and colors overflow the 
table~ and shelves. Removable sky-
scraper caps cluster around one 
miniature building, like toy hats. 

This year, CP&A won the American 
Institute of Architects' award for ten 
years of nationally distinguished work. 
The firm's designs include the World 
Financial Center- in New York's Bat-
tery Park City as well as Canary Wharf 
in London, one,.;.of the largest real 
estate developin'ehts ever. CP&A is 
also working on several small projects 
nearby, 
landscaping the Jonathan 
Edwards College courtyard and instal-
ling lampposts around the Yale 
campus. 

In the early 1960s, Pelli worked as 
project designer on Morse and Stiles 
colleges with architect Eero Saarinen. 
After living in Los Angeles for 12 
years, he returned to Yale in 1977 to 
become dean of the School of Archi-
tecture. At the same time he founded 
his own firm with partners Diana 
Balmori and Fred Clarke. Instead of 
moving back to a large city like Los 
Angeles or New York, the partners 
decided to stay in New Haven when 
Pelli fmished his term as dean. The 
firm has been growing ever since. 

In 1987, CP&A landed a series of 
large commissions, including Canary 
Wharf, and their design staff expanded 
from about 35 to nearly 100. Pelli 
looked to the nearby pool of students to 
find talented part-time labor. Twelve 
Yale graduates have become Pelli 
associates. Half a 
dozen graduate 
students and 
two undergradu-
ates- Brian O'Looney (SM '90) and 
Robert Kim OE '90)-work at CP&A, 
Associates work side-by-side with students late into the night at Cesar 
Pelli's Chapel Street Office. 
alongside architects from as far away 
as California and Japan. 

Students say that the atmosphere in 
the CP&A office reminds them of the 
classroom studios in Yale's Art and 
Architecture building, where both Pelli 
and Balmori teach. The firm keeps 
hours similar to students' work 
schedules. "It's common for 20 or 25 
architects to be working at 9 or 9:30 
p.m.," said O'Looney. Several stu-
dents, 
including Tony 
Markese 
(ARCH '88) and Bill Vinyard (ARCH 
'88), who had their drafting tables side 
by side at Yale, have graduated to 
work together at Pelli's firm. "They 
were on a roll at school which just 
hasn't stopped," said Erika Belsey 
(ARCH '90). 

This same sense of community 
shows 
in the 
firm's 
collaborative 
approach to design. Unlike some big 
firms such as Skidmore, Owings & 
Merrill, Pelli's office does not divide 
work 
among bureaucratic depart-
ments. Instead, Pelli shares his ideas 
with design teams, which make models 
and meet with him to discuss projects 
every week. If they want, individual 
team members, whether undergradu-
ates or associates, can also offer their 
own designs. 

Last month, Pelli had a meeting to 
examine the miniature caps built by 
members of a skyscraper design team. 
He crouched down to place himself at 
eye-level with the entrance of the 
model building, while one team 
member tried the caps on the model 
one by one. After choosing a proposal, 
Pelli sent the team members back to 
work out a finished design. "The 
system is loose yet well-run," said 
O'Looney. "It offers us a chance to 
learn through participation." Learning 
modelmaking techniques also helps 
· students in their classes at Yale. 

Because Pelli relies on models instead 
of drawings, his assistants learn prac-
tical skills in addition to learning many 
aspects of design development. Belsey 
said that after an architect taught her 
to bevel an edge on a model she show-
ed the technique to her friends at 
school. 

CP&A will probably stay in New 
Haven and continue to train Yale ar-
chitecture students for years to come. 
Despite its success, CP&A's public 
relations director Charles Rosenbloom 
OE '87) said that the firm will not grow 
much more. "Because Cesar likes to 
maintain an involvement in every-
thing," he said, "the firm is about as big 
as it can be." 
-Laura London 
The New Journai/Decem~r I, 1989 5 


**Play Room**
**Author: Liz Hopkins**
**Page number(s): 6**

Play Room 
Brandon sat behind a Mickey Mouse 
pop-up toy, gleefully selling Chinese, 
Italian and American food. His main 
customer, 
Seth Kugel (BR '92), 
returned to the store again and again, 
occasionally bringing his "wife"-
Brandon's sister. Each time, Seth doled 
out more play money from a stash in 
his pocket. 

The shopping spree took place in the 
basement of the New Haven Family 
Shelter on Sylvan Avenue, where a 
play group for homeless children .meets 
three times a week. On Mondays, 
mothers and a caseworker spend time 
with 
kids, 
and 
on 
Friday 
and Saturday afternoons Yale volun-
teers join the group. Together, the 
adults and children play imaginary 
games like "food shop," draw pictures, 
and make pinatas and holiday treats. 

Although the play group began two 
years ago, the shelter has not yet 
funded the program, and it remains 
largely unstructured. If the group can 
get more money, the volunteers plan to 
organize field trips to the Peabody 
Musuem and an ice-skating rink. 

The play group is one of many 
services provided by Christian 
Community Action through the New 
Haven Family Shelter. At the shelter, 
CCA supports homeless families for 60 
to 90 days and tries to find them 
permanent housing. Children out-
number adults at the shelter by three 
to one. Although CCA has always 
directed them into the school system, 
the shelter provided no activities to fill 
up the childrens' free time until the 
play group 
started. 

When Sofie 
Turner, a case worker, began working 
in the shelter, she noticed that the kids 
made little social contact with each 
other. "They'd meet up and say hi, and 
start fighting or running in the halls," 
she said. Turner decided to open up 
the activities room in the basement for 
the kids. 

She soon had mothers bringing their 
children to the basement room twice a 
6 The New Journal/December 1, 1989 
week for the first sessions of the play 
group. Turner hoped to encourage 
responsible parenting in addition to 
entertaining the kids. Problems arose 
early on. One mother bragged con-
stantly about her son, but when he 
could not stay within the lines in his 
coloring books, she slapped him. 

Turner tried to reduce conflict by 
matching mothers with other women's 
children during the play group. She 
established some ground rules: Both 
children and parents must avoid 
physical abuse, 
name-calling, 
disrespectful 
terms. Turner also 
discouraged violent play, prohibiting 
toy guns and war games. 

Practical problems inhibited the 
·success of the program at first. When 
the mothers began bringing in their 
preschoolers, the group grew too large. 
"It's impossible to do a quality group 
with 15 to 25 kids, especially with kids 
as diverse as these," Turner said. "On 
good days, there were enough mothers 
so that we could split up into general 
age groups, but it takes a special kind 
of mother to do that." 

Early in September, Carlisle Levine 
(T D '91) gave Turner a call. Levine 
wanted to work with the kids in the 
shelter, and Turner saw a chance tp get 
her play group off the ground. Levine 
had worked with homeless adults 
before, but found it frustrating. "There 
was such a barrier that it was hard to 
feel I was making a difference," she 
said. Last summer she took a job as a 
waterfront counselor in a camp for 
homeless children. "They have love 
and care to give beyond any concep-
tion measurable," Levine said of the 
campers. She returned to New Haven 
determined to continue working with 
them. Turner, glad to take advantage 
of Levine's enthusiasm, invited her to 
come to the shelter. 

The play group overwhelmed 
Levine when she began visiting the 
Sylvan Avenue building alone. Turner 
suggested she put up some posters 
around Yale to find other students who 
might help at the shelter. Soon Levine 
assembled a group of 19 volunteers. 
They started to attend the play 
sessions, now called "Kids' Group," in 
October. Yet Levine found that in her 
new group she could not offer the 
volunteers concrete assignments. "In 
groups that have been around a while 
you come in and they can say, 'OK, 
here are the kids you'll be working 
with.' I couldn't do that because we 
were still figuring out what to do." 

Occasionally, more volunteers than 
children come to the group. Since 
attendance is irregular, volunteers do 
not know how many kids to expect, 
and they often must improvise 
activities. Levine and Turner hope 
that attendance will stabilize when the 
program becomes a routine in the 
shelter. Meanwhile, Turner is pleased. 
"I chip away. I know it's a big stone, 
and I only have a small hatchet. But I 
know I'm still making a difference," she 
said. The student volun teers say they 
are having a good time. Where else can 
a Yalie go to buy imaginary food with 
Monopoly money? 
-Liz Hopkins 



**Title: A Homeless Artist in New Haven**
**Author: Arthur Bradfield**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
while living in New Haven for the past 
two years without a home. Most nights 
he sleeps in the Columbus House 
Shelter on York Street, where he is 
forced to leave each morning by 7 a.m. 
During the day he spends his time 
walking around, gathering ideas and 
materials for new pieces. He has no set 
schedule. If the weather is nice Milind 
can spend the day drawing. If it rains 
he has to look for shelter for himself 
and his art. "In retrospect I don't know 
if I would have chosen to be an artist," 
he said, although now his work takes 
up all his time. "It has become an 
existence and a reality for me." 
Each of Milind's works of art re-
quires tremendous effort. Since he 
cannot afford to purchase materials, he 
composes his pieces- from objects he 
finds, such as a discarded television 
set, a magazine ad, and a toothbrush. 
He also draws piqures from scenes in 
his imagination. Milind has no place to 
store his art, so if he does not sell it 
immediately he m\1st ask someone to 
hold it for him, or give it away. Before 
creating a sculpture he hides the 
materials he has selected in secret 
pockets around the city. Milind said he 
has gathered enough elements now to 
make a new sculpture. He refers to this 
collection as "the fall harvest." 


Milind seldom shaves and wears 
layers of dusty, baggy clothing. "AU I 
have is what you see," he said. He held 
up his arms to display his wardrobe, 
and pointed to his sketchbook, a gift 
from a Yale student, overloaded with 
wrinkled papers and breaking at the 
seams. Despite his disheveled appear-
ance, Milind chooses his words care-
fully from a large, varied vocabulary. 
He speaks five languages and holds a 
bachelor's degree in electrical 
engineering from the Indian Institute 
of Technology and a master's degree in 
physics from the City College of New 
York. 


After receiving his degree in physics 
twelve years ago, Milind decided to 
stay in the U.S. to look for a high-
paying job. Soon, he said, he was 
making more than $40,000 a year as a 
COmputer operator. Two years ago he 
came home from work to find a lock-
smith changing the locks on his door. 
"Then the moving men came and just 
began to take it all away," he said. 
Milind had a visa which allowed him 
only to study. He had been working in 
America as an illegal allien. To make 
matters worse, Milind also refused to 
pay his taxes, citing ethical and 
"logical" reasons for not doing so. 
"Income taxes give incentive to the 
parasite," he said. Rather than return 
to India, where he could likely find 
work given his level of education, 
Milind said he prefers to remain in 
America in the hope that he will soon 
obtain U.S. 
citizenship. "Unfor-
tunately," he said, "the work has been 
moving at a snail's pace." 


Although he has had no formal 
artistic training, Milind has been 
fascinated with art since he was young. 
He said he has visited the Louvre and 
the Vatican, and has explored the 
great museums of Amsterdam, 
Florence, New York and New Haven. 
At one time, Milind said, he viewed 
artwork like a tourist. Now that he is 
"deliberately and 
consciously" an 
artist, he said he sees far more in each 
piece of art and is improving with each 
new work. "This is like my going to art 
school," he said. 


Drawing from two major sources of 
inspiration, science and ancient Greek 
art, Milind creates drawings that 
combine the two influences in surreal 
landscapes. One of Milind's drawings 
features a distorted ancient Greek 
statue against an outer-space back-
ground. 
Milind said he titled it 
~Ganymede" after a satellite of jupiter. 
In another of his works Milind has 
scratched scientific formulas into thick 
layers of color. Embedded among 
other images is a diagram of a plu-
tonium-powered rocket engine he 
designed. 


Milind would like to have a show of 
his work. But, he said, he cannot 
transform many of his ideas into 
drawings and sculpture because he has 
no home or money. His ideal show 
would take place outdoors, with room 
for huge sculptures. So far he has sold 
two pieces, each for $60. For now, the, 
sculpture he gave to Anderson is sitting 
in a storage room at the Kosher 
Kitchen. 


-Arthur BradjMd 
The New Journal/December 1, 1989 7 


**Title: The New Haven Independent Staff Walkout**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 8**

8 The New J ournal/December 1, 1989 
New Haven 
-
Volume 4 Number 7 
'· 
The Independent staff takes its last stand on the front steps before walking off the job. 


**Title: The Implosion of the New Haven Independent**
**Page number(s): 9**

The New Journal/December 1, 1989 9 
~ober 19, 1989 
25 cents 
LOCAL PAPER 
The Octob~;- 19 issue of the New Haven 
Independent was, by all accounts, a 
pitiful sheaf of newsprint. Peculiarly 
large photographs floated among awk-
ward patches of white space. No hint of 
the city's most watched election in 
decades appeared 
in the political 
weekly. A letter to the editor published 
two 
weeks 
later 
lamented, 
"It's 
alarming and depressing how rapidly 
the paper has gone downhill . . . It is 
really pathetic." A clever reader might 
have detected the irony behind the lead 
photograph, which showed striking 
office workers walking off their jobs. 
The entire eight-member editorial staff 
of the Independent had quit that week. 
The shoddy October 19 edition and 
the accompanying mass exodus were 
not the worst of the debacle that week. 
Shortly after the editorial staff 
dispersed from posing for a farewell 
photo on the front steps, paramedics 
rushed into the office to carry the 
paper's associate editor, 
Margaret 
Spillane, to the hospital. Police arrived 
to arrest 
the 
marketing director, 
Bernard Zelitch, who Spillane claimed 
had attacked her. Accounts of the fight 
vary among the staff. "The next thing I 
saw was Margaret flying out of the 
office with a tremendous crash," said _ 
Bruce Shapiro, the former executive 
editor. "It brought people up from 
downstairs. She was flat on her back, 
very dazed." Zelitch said he never hit 
Spillane. All sides agreed that the 
argument started when the two began 
bickering over who had the right to 
open a piece of office mail. Clearly, the ' 
work environment had deteriorated. It 
was no secret that the writers and • 
editors quit because they were angry 
with Zelitch and his wife Caroline 



**The Independent: A New Haven Experiment**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Cole, the newspaper's publisher. By 
the end of the week Zelitch and ·Cole 
had also resigned. 
The Independent 
disintegrated as 
quickly. and dramatically as it burst 
onto New Haven's political scene. 
Three young journalists and a com-
munity activist founded the weekly 
newspaper in 1986, as an ambitious 
experiment in progressive journalism. 
The New Haven Register, the city's only 
daily, was then a family-owned mono-
poly that catered to a 
suburban 
audience and editorialized with right-
wing fervor. The New Haven Advocate 
offered a 
kind of "alternative" 
journalism, especially for arts and 
entertainment coverage, but it aimed 
mostly at the region's hip baby-boomer 
population. Neither paper focused on 
the city's socially and ethnically diverse 
neighborhoods. The Iruiependent would. 
The paper's fU"St executive editor, 
Paul Bass OE '82), met his future wife 
and associate editor Carole Smith 
(SY '83) when both worked as student 
writers for the 
Yale Daily News. 
Together with a community organizer 
named Cynthia Savo and her husband 
Bruce Shapiro of the Advocate, they 
launched their idealistic scheme for a 
gritty, 
community-based weekly. 
About half of New Haven's house-
holds, 
roughly 24,000, 
eventually 
made the mailing list. 
With Savo as their publisher, the 
foursome ran their little office on 
Chapel Street with the same progres-
sive spirit that bubbled over in the 
pages of the new weekly. The founders 
10 The New Journal/December 1, 1989 
decided all matters by consensus, and 
together became known in the office 
simply as "P.C.B.C.," after their first 
initials. 
The. whole 
staff, 
from 
receptionist to executive editor, 
participated in meetings and received 
equally meager salaries of $21 '000 a 
year. "Everyone, not just the writers, 
believed in the paper's mission," 
Shapiro recalled. "The only place I've 
seen that kind of passion is in political 
campaigns." 
"As time went on, 
Cole became more 
and more like Lady 
Macbeth." 
The grassroots activism that would 
inspire John Daniels' populist bid for 
mayor began finding a voice in the 
pages of the Independent. "The office 
was like a community center," Savo 
said, referring to the constant bustle of 
visitors from all around town. "A lot of 
neighborhood activists became aware 
of what was going on in other neigh-
borhoods, and realized they were 
facing the same problems." Savo and 
the paper's two full-time reporters, 
Khalid Lum and Elizabeth Coonrod, 
used their ties in New Haven's Italian, 
'African-American and Latino commu-
nities to bring out stories neglected by 
the other newspapers. 
"We · never condescended to our 
readers," Bass said. Not everyone 
agreed. Superintendent of Schools 
John Dow, Jr. sued the paper for libel 
after it lambasted him in one of its 
typically unambiguous editorials. In 
what the 
Connecticut Law Review 
deemed a "landmark" decision for 
freedom of the press, a Superior Court 
judge defended the Independents right to 
characterize Dow as "an ignorant, 
spineless politician" who should "go 
back to elementary school and take a 
civics class." Joel Schiavone, the 
developer responsible for the chic row 
of shops on Chapel Street, wrote a 
letter threatening an advertising 
boycott from all of his "entities" after 
the paper criticized his Shubert 
Theater project. The Independent called 
his bluff, publishing the letter the next 
week on the letters-to-the-editor page. 
The newspaper unearthed conflicts 
of interest in New Haven's Housing 
and Urban Development projects way 
back in 1987. Two years later, when 
the HUD scandal became national 
news, the New York Times credited the 
Independent for breaking the story. In 
another muckraking coup, the paper 
exposed an outbreak of liver poisoning 
at the Fair Haven Heights chemical 
plant of U retek Inc. Federal officials at 
the Occupation~ Safety and Health 
Administration read the story, and 
eventually slapped the company with a 
record fme.


**The Rise and Fall (and Rise?) of the *Independent***
**Author: Roy Tsao**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
stayed 
true to 
its m1ss1on. 

The 
remaining founders kept insisting that 
all they needed was more time. 

When the editors asked for another 
$350,000 this year, H enley-Cohn 
decided she'd had enough. In June, she 
found 
a 
new 
h usband-and-wife 
newspaper team to take over as 
publisher and marketing director. 

Caroline Cole and Bernard Zelitch 
shared her bottom-line management 
philosophy. "The commune just wasn't 
working," Cole said. "There was no 
monitoring, responsibility, or accoun t-
ability." The new publisher set out to 
install a corporate hierarchy. She 
abolished the egalitarian pay system, 
nearly doublin~ her own salary in the 
process, and prepared to rid the 
company of the inefficiency she saw 
in ·everything from production sche-
dules to office design. The Basses quit 
on July 7, the day after the new team 
started work. "Caroline Cole told me 
she hated my paper," said Paul Bass. 
"She said she wanted to take me off 
politics to cover high school track 
meets." 

Of the newspaper's founders, only 
Bruce Shapiro remained for the absurd 
last act of the lndependmt drama. The 
events leading up to the October 
walkout became a caricature of the 
struggle between journalistic idealism 
and corporate efficiency. "As time 
went on, Cole became more and more 
like Lady Macbeth," Shapiro said, 
"more and more concerned with 
moving furniture and punching time 
clocks. It was like rearranging the deck 
chairs on the Titanic." The new 
publisher carried out her plans with 
"an abrupt, verbally abusive, and 
authoritarian personal style," he said. 
"It went from being the best work 
environment I've ever been in to the 
worst." 

Cole objects to the idea that she 
should have asked the staffs permis-
sion before rearranging furniture to 
create a more efficient, less communal 
office space. "There were just as many 
people, probably more, who felt more 
comfortable in a 
traditional hier-
archical structure," she said. 

Furthermore, Cole said Shapiro and 
his staff were carrying out a personal 
vendetta against her by slacking off 
and missing deadlines. "Certain people 
were putting in a lot of effort to 
sabotage the paper," she said. "The 
staff held a mass meeting to think of 
ways 
to 
send 
us 
back 
Massachusetts." 

As the discord in the office got 
worse, so did the quality of the paper. 
Reporters at the RegisttT stopped 
clfecking their own stories on 
Thursdays against the latest edition of 
the Independent. "They're not out in the 
neighborhoods anymQre," said Paul 
Bass from his new office at the Advocate. 

One change came as a surprise even to 
Shapiro. "I picked up a copy of the 
paper one week when it came back 
from the printer,~ he said. "I opened it 
up, and there was this puzzle." Cole 
and Zelitch had ordered a series of 
weekly puzzles from a national syndi-
cate. "This sum is the largest dollar 
amount a contestant can win in a 
standard game of Jeopardy!" one of 
them teased. Shapiro was incensed. "In 
the first place, it was a dumb puzzle. 
But more important, it was syndicated, 
which went entirely 
against our 
mission." 

Cole said she ordered the puzzle as a 
last resort, because Shapiro and the 
editorial staff were not generating 
enough copy to fill the 24 pages 
mandated by the Postal Service. "It 
was a promotional item- one that 
happened to be wildly successful," she 
said. In any case, the paper's com-
munitarian ideal had fallen by the 
wayside. The Independent had joined the 
city's other papers in relying on 
syndicated material and neglecting 
local news. "The paper has deter-
iorated into a collection of safe, bland 
descriptions," one reader wrote in. It 
looked more and more like the Register, 
only thinner- anq was losing more 
money than ever before. 

Shapiro made one last attempt to 
regain control of the paper. He typed 


up a plan and gave it to Henley-Cohn, 
calling for a 
total reorganization, 
wh ich included getting rid of Cole and 
Zelitch. H enley-Cohn rejected it. "I 
didn't want Bruce in charge," she said. 

In mid-October the frustrated editorial 
staff resigned. After the fracas between 
Zelitch and Spillane, th e majority 
own er ordered the Independent office 
locks changed, allowing only Cole and 
the production staff inside to slap 
together the infamous October 19 
issue. By the end of the week Henley-
Cohn accepted resignations from Cole 
and 
Zelitch · as well, "to make a 
completely fresh start." 

"I don't want to run a 
cutesy, nicey 
newspaper, because 
readers aren't stupid." 

Despite its inglorious demise, the 
brand of community journalism ori-
ginated at the Independent has leaked 
into the other local papers. Since Paul 
Bass signed on as a staff reporter, the 
Advocate has begun to fill out its pages 
with more investigative stories, most of 
which Bass writes himself. (In one 
recent issue, a column by Bass on labor 
relations in the New Haven schools ran 
twice, under two different headlines.) 

Still, with its large regional audience 
and upscale tone, the paper makes no 
pretense of being a smalltown commu-
nity weekly like the original Inde-
/Hndent. Its recent "Au tumn T imes" 
issue gave about three pages to local 
news and nearly nine to "Living a Lie," 
tongue-in-cheek look at 
New 
England fall traditions that could have 
run in New York's Spy magazine. 

The Registers urban coverage has 
also changed since the Independent 
appeared. The daily recently looked 
closely at issues of poverty, drugs and 
racism in its two series titled "New 
Haven's Ten Worst Problems" and "A 
City Divided." And 
it surprised 
everyone with its endorsement of John 
Daniels for mayor. Thomas Geyer, the 
Registers CEO and former editor, praised 
the !ndependmfs savvy. "The Independent 
provided a clear perspective on things 
we didn't always report on," he said, 
"with a strong point of view that was 
always thought-provoking." Nonethe-
less, the Register looks more like USA 
Today than the old Independent, and 
typically leans on light features sent 
over the Associated Press wires. So far, 
no New Haven newspaper has filled 
the gap in local reporting left by the 
Independent. 

Paul Bass and Henley-Cohn agreed 
that the responsibility for their paper's 
failures belongs to everyone . "I accept 
my share of the blame," H enley-Cohn 
said. I should have made it run on its 
revenues a long time ago." The timing 
was wrong, the market was tight. "I 
was not a strong CEO, I didn't make 
the tough decisions," Bass conceded. 

But the two disagree about whether a 
newspaper built on the idealistic model 
of the P.C .B.C. collective could ever 
survive in New Haven, even in the 
best financial climate. 

Another local journalist, 
Carol 
Leonetti Dannhauser, took over as 
editor of the Independent on November 
15. Although it will run with a more 
traditional business structure, and far 
tighter budgets, Leonetti said the spirit 
of the original founders will return to 
the pages of the new Independent. "I 
don't want to run a cutesy, nicey 
newspaper, 
because readers aren't 
stupid," she said. "I'm certainly not 
going to keep my mouth shut." 


**Title: New Haven's Drinking Problem Contaminants in the Water Supply**
**Author: Milena Navy and Stefanie Syman**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Every drop of water we drink starts at 
the Lake Gaillard Reservoir, northeast of New Haven. 
sliding your tray along the serving line 
rails in the dining hall, you jostle for a 
pl.ilce at the beverage machines. You 
pause for a moment in front of the soft 
drinks and Hi-C, and then shove your 
glass under the water spout. Untainted 
by caffeine, chemical coloring 
or 
artificial sweetners, clear water gushes 
out: Before it spurts through the 
faucets at Yale, 
each drop has 
journeyed five days from a reservoir 
northeast of New Haven, through a 
network of underground pipes. A 
treatment plant at the Lake Galliard 
Reservoir strains out dead leaves, 
bacteria, and other plant and animal 
matter. But while it looks pure, by the 
time it reaches your glass, New Haven's 
drinking water has picked up tiny bits of 
metal and other contaminants. 

Yale students and New Haven 
residents often complain that their 
water tastes bad. Chlorine added to kill 
bacteria gives the water a chemical 
flavor, and copper piping accounts for 
the water's metallic tang. Yet our taste 
buds can't detect the most dangerous 
elements in the water we drink. "Water 
is a real scandal that hasn't been . 
discussed," said Matt Borenstein, the 
New Haven Green Party's mayoral 
candidate and a longtime city activist. 
"At least we should know what the risks 
are." Drinking water may contain any 
of nearly 1000 pollutants identified by 
the Environmental Protection Agency. 
The local Water Authority, a public 
corporation that channels water to 
nearly 400,000 southern Connecticut 
residents, notifies consumers through 
their monthly bills when pollution 
levels get too high. 

Many New Haveners remember the 
crisis of 1984, when an outbreak of 
fecal coliform bacteria hit the city's 
water supply. In an effort to kill the 
bacteria, the Water Authority poured 
almost three times the normal level of 
chlorine into the Lake Gaillard storage 
tanks. The result was something that 
tasted like swimming pool water. In 
August 1988, bacteria levels almost 
violated federal standards again and, 
according to Allen Hess, chief engi· 
neer at the Authority, a resident 
coliform population still lurks in the 
system. There is no way to prevent 
another outbreak, he said. "It could 
happen again at any time." 

Since chlorine dissipates as water 
flows to kitchen sinks across Con-
necticut, the Authority must add 
higher concentrations to keep the 
water bacteria-free until it reaches its 
farthest destination. But even this 
precaution, it turns out, poses a health 
risk. "You can't water your plants with 
it," said Borenstein. "It's not good for 
the fish. How long do you want to 
drink swimming pool water?" Many 
experts in charge of water quality insist 
that chlorine does not threaten public 
health. Neither the EPA nor the Water 
Authority sets maximum chlorine 
levels. "Chlorine poses no health risk, 
though it might not taste too good," 
said Peter Karalekas, chief of drinking 
water for the EPA in New England. 
Tom Jackson, a spoke_sman for the 
Water Authority, agrees: "It's never a 
health problem, it's just a matter of 
taste." 

But in 1987, a major study by the 
National Cancer Institute found that 
the risk of developing bladder cancer 
increased with 
the amount of 
chlorinated water consumed. The in-
cidence of bladder cancer, the fifth 
most common cancer in the U.S., has 
increased by 50 percent in the last 40 
years. Yet the Water Authority's con-
sumer brochures do not mention the 
carcinogenic effects of chlorine. 

Private customers like Yale can do 
nothing about the chlorine that the 
Water Authority dumps into our 
water, but the University could do 
more to get rid of lead- the most 
dangerous contaminant we drink. 

While the Authority oversees every 
drop that travels from Lake Gaillard 
Reservoir to New Haven's water 
mains, once water leaves a shut-off box 
at the curb the Authority's job is over. 
A lot can happen between the street 
and the kitchen tap. In many areas, 
including Yale, lead leaches in.to 
drinking water through indoor 
plumbing. Although the EPA banned 
all lead materials in public water 
systems in 1986, most old buildings 
still contain antiquated lead pipes. 

Lead contamination deadens the 
central nervous system and causes 
kidney breakdown, loss of motor 
coordination, fetal disorders, and 
miscarriages. 

According to data 
collected by the EPA, 42 million 
Americans and 240,000 children have 
suffered reduced intellectual capacity 
because of lead in drinking water. The 
EPA has found that even levels below 
the current maximum contaminant level 
(MCL) for lead of 50 parts per billion 
(ppb) are enough to cause serious 
health defects. In Connecticut, public 
officials worry that lead damages 
unknown numbers of local residents. 
"Children are playing in and 
drinking water that may be con-
taminated with lead," said Frederick 
Adams, state health services 
commissioner. This year, 
the 
Connecticut Health Commission 
designated June as Lead Poisoning 
Prevention Awareness Month. The 
Water Authority sent out a brochure 
entitled Get the Leod Out to 100,000 
customers in its service area, warning 
them, among other tips, not to cook 
with hot water because higher temper· 
atures speed up leaching. The 
Authority also tries to prevent leaching 
by lacing its tanks with sodium 
hydroxide, a chemical which mellows 
water to a basic pH level, so it does not 
corrode pipes. Still, 
the Water 
Authority concedes that lead levels in 
New Haven's drinking water may be 
dangerously high. 

"Everyone in New Haven who can 
afford it buys bottled water,,. said 
Borenstein. As part of his mayoral


platform this fall, Borenstein proposed 
raising water rates, taxing Yale to fund 
improvements in the quality of the 
water system, and launching a public 
education campaign. Dale Abbott, a 
New Haven plumber for the last 25 
years, also said the government is not 
doing enough. Abbott, who sells a 
water purification system recently 
installed in the Boston Public Schools, 
sent a letter to all the New Haven 
papers last month, chastising the 
Water Authority for neglecting to 
educate the public about the dangers of 
lead. "It's as good as selling drugs to 
kids," he said. 

This year the New Haven Advocate 
tested 20 local buildings for leaded 
drinking water. One fourth of their 
samples showed lead levels above the 
EPA's proposed maximum limit 
of 
ten 
ppb. 
Spring 
Glen 
School in Harnden came up with a 
startling 70ppb by the Advocates 
measurements. Since the test results 
were published, schoolchildren in 
Hamden and New Haven have joined 
the Water Authority's effort to make 
their water safe to drink. Under the 
Authority's Water Ranger program, 
each school appoints student Rangers 
to run drinking fountains for several 
minutes every morning, washing out 
any lead that seeped in overnight. The 
Water Authority began the program 
last spring by inviting principals at 
each of the 182 public and private 
schools in its area . to participate. 

According to Rosemary Macionus, 
education director for the Water 
Authority, 76 of the 182 schools in the 
Authority's service area have joined so 
far. More than half of New Haven's 55 
schools have decided to appoint 
student Rangers. 

Yale has yet to introduce anything 
like a team of college Water Rangers. 
According to Dr. Eric Mood, sanitary 



**Lead in the Water**
**Author: Milena Novy and Stefanie Syman**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal found twice the proposed EPA limit for lead in a Law School drinking fountain.  According to Mood, an engineer at the Yale School of Epidemiology and Public Health, no such steps are necessary here. Yale's water complies with current EPA lead standards, he said. "There is no reason to believe that there are high levels of lead in Yale's water," said Mood. He has tested Yale water for more than ten years and analyzed samples taken randomly from Yale buildings including the Divinity School, the Medical School and the Yale Bowl. "Lead in water in this area, as far as I'm concerned, is a non-problem," said Mood. Although lead solder can dissolve into water that sits in Yale's pipes, Mood maintains that this is no cause for worry. "You need water standing for 12 to 15 hours," he said. "At Yale there is a constant flow. Only the first flush in the morning may contain lead." According to a Water Authority brochure, however, water that stands in pipes with lead solder for more than six hours poses a threat.


As Yale has expanded over the decades, additions and modifications have created a wildly complex plumbing system. According to Robert Proto, a plumber who has worked at Yale for 15 years, the University used lead piping until the mid-1960s. While Yale has replaced almost all lead piping with copper and galvanized steel since then, as recently as last year the physical plant removed lead pipes from the university provost's house. "There could be lead in different isolated areas, but by no means is it widespread," said Proto. Most dorms and Yale buildings receive water through copper pipes that existed years before the 1986 EPA ban, however, and lead solder in these pipes can contaminate the water. "All solder prior to the EPA ban contains lead," Proto said. Only residents in the most recently renovated buildings-Calhoun College and Lawrance and Welch Halls-drink their water from lead-free piping. Abbott criticizes Yale for responding slowly to the potential health threat. "Where there are all-tile walls, Yale won't rip walls out to replace pipes," he said. Most dormitory bathrooms have tile walls. "Yale is a nightmare under our nose," said Abbott.


The New Journal took water samples from seven locations at Yale-Dwight Hall, the Film Studies building, William L. Harkness Hall, the Law School, Sterling Memorial Library, Connecticut Hall, and Street Hall- and sent them to two labs for testing. The Institute of Analytical and Environmental Chemistry at the University of New Haven found 19ppb of lead in a sample from a Law School drinking fountain- almost twice the proposed EPA limit- and undetectable levels of lead in the other samples. According to tests by the Water Authority, Dwight Hall, the Film Studies building, and WLH had undetectable levels of lead. Copper levels in the samples tested by the Water Authority do not pose a health risk, but they do account for the metallic taste of Yale water. Dr. George L. Wheeler, who ran some of the tests, also found what he called "unidentifiable crud" in the Law School sample. "It may be dead bacteria killed by the chlorine that precipitates out onto the walls of the pipes," said Wheeler.


Anyone can find crud in the New Haven water for the price of a $10 test from the Water Authority. But even when tests show high levels of lead and other contaminants, neither the government nor building owners want to take responsibility. The Center Church Parish House on the New Haven Green had the highest levels of lead in the Advocate survey, at 160ppb-more than three times current EPA limits. But since the Advocate tested the church's water, neither the EPA nor the state Health Department has made the Center Church modify its water system... The church chose to ignore the results of the Advocate test. "We have made no response because we thought the tests were not representative of our water," said Paul Weisman, Center Church business manager and maintenance person. "The sample was taken from a faucet that had not been used for 24 hours."


Recently, however, the EPA proposed changing its standards, to apply before tap water has been flushed, and reducing maximum contaminant levels for lead from 50ppb to 10ppb. The new standards should clear up inconsistencies in testing. "Before now, the EPA has never specified how the sample was to be taken," said the EPA's Karalekas. New testing guidelines, along with the lower MCL, could lead to cleaner, safer drinking water. But it will be two years before the EPA proposals go into effect. Meanwhile, citizens like Borenstein and Abbott continue to press for more action. They want the state to account for the potential hazards in the water, and they are trying to get citizens to pressure the government and private institutions like Yale. Borenstein says he is frustrated by the consumer's lack of control. "The only input you have now is whether you turn the water on or off."


Milena Novy is a junior in Trumbull College. Stefanie Syman is an associate editor of TNJ.



**Title: Speaking with Woodward**
**Author: Jack Wills**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Quiet and contemplative, C. Vann Woodward speaks in a soft Southern drawl, carefully weighing his words before offering them. Though he retired from the Yale history faculty in 1977, he still keeps a sparse and slightly dusty office in the Hall of Graduate Studies. In conversation, he leans forward attentively. He is self-assured, gently humorous, and, at 81, still watching the changing world around him.

Despite his unassuming manner, Woodward is a towering figure in American historical scholarship. His achievements continue to influence his fellow historians and the Yale community. "He was and still is the most distinguished United States historian," said Professor Emeritus of History Edmund Morgan, an expert on colonial America. A scholar of the American South, Woodward won the Pulitzer Prize for his book Mary Chesnut's Civil War. Martin Luther King, Jr. referred to Woodward's Strange Career of Jim Crow, a history of segregation in America, as the Bible of the civil rights movement.

Woodward still spends his time these days writing, a pursuit he has enjoyed all his life. Recently, he published a new book of collected essays and speeches, The Future of the Past, and an article on segregation for the 75th anniversary issue of The New Republic. Although he is at his desk every day, Woodward hesitates to call his activities work. "Work is a curious definition," he said. "I do what I want to do. If that's work, I do a lot of it."

As a young man, Woodward wanted to be a writer, not a historian. He took one history class at Emory, and found it "boring." Upon graduating in 1930, he taught English for a year until the depression forced him out of the job. "I decided this might be the time to see if I could write," he said. He began a biography of Tom Watson, one of the first white politicians to appeal directly for black votes. When he ran out of money, Woodward entered graduate school at the University of North Carolina on a full scholarship, and completed the book in 1937 as his doctoral thesis. Tom Watson, Agrarian Rebel was published a year later, inaugurating Woodward's distinguished career.


His scholarly reputation notwithstanding, most Yale students today associate Woodward's name with the University's free-expression policies. The Woodward Committee established the first guidelines on free speech at Yale in 1974. Issues such as the Vietnam War and racial injustice dominated the campus when his committee convened, Woodward said. "There was very little dissent from the prevailing point of view on these issues," he said, adding that he, too, opposed the war. In 1972, boisterous crowds prevented General William Westmoreland and Secretary of State William Rogers from addressing the Yale Political Union. Two years later, under pressure from campus groups, the Union rescinded an invitation to William Shockley, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist who believed that blacks were genetically inferior to whites.

A group named Young Americans for Freedom then invited Shockley to debate William Rusher of The National Review, but a shouting crowd of protesters prevented the debate.

Woodward said he saw the Shockley incident as "an outrageous violation of free speech." He and the other professors who witnessed it went directly to President Kingman Brewster's house afterward to recount what they had seen. A few days later, Brewster established the Woodward Committee. The committee concluded that free speech is essential to the University's function and that Yale has an obligation to protect expression of views no matter how unpopular or distasteful. "The report ran contrary to the dominant opinion on the rights of free speech," Woodward said.

The customary definition meant making advances toward women. Now they call it harassment if people say things they don't like.

In the fall of 1988, Yale President Benno Schmidt decided the time had come to review the Woodward report. Anti-apartheid shanties, controversial posters, and charges of harassment at Yale led Schmidt to appoint a new committee, chaired by Physics Professor Robert Adair. After a year of deliberation, the Adair Committee essentially upheld the Woodward report. It recommended no major changes in Yale's policies and refused to outline strict procedures for determining what students could express verbally, graphically or symbolically.

"I was delighted to see that the Adair Report supported the findings of my committee, and that it addressed problems that are never really settled," Woodward said. "You just have to keep on settling them because they take new forms every time. People don't like offensive opinions, and one solution is to forbid them. That doesn't comport with my notions of free speech."

Woodward points out that the fight over free speech has changed since his committee met. "Back then, it was the majority that was offended by a public speech-the overwhelming majority," he said. "Currently, I think it is minorities who are up in arms, and are offended by certain kinds of speech. They call it harassment, but they don't want to hear people say things they don't like to hear." Woodward represented Wayne Dick (DC '88) in an appeal before the Executive Committee, after Dick had been suspended for putting up posters satirizing Gay and Lesbian Awareness Days at Yale. Reversing its earlier decision, the Executive Committee held that Dick had a right to put up his posters, even though gay and lesbian students said they felt harassed.

Some people today define harassment too broadly, Woodward said. "The customary definition meant making advances towards women. Now, you can call it harassment if you annoy people. It means saying anything that seems offensive."

However, the professor said he supports vocal minority groups on campus. "They have a perfect right to express their opinions, but they don't have the right to keep others from expressing theirs."

Raised in the segregated South, Woodward saw firsthand the effects of racism, and he has been concerned with the issue ever since. "I didn't have to imagine segregation. I'd seen it." He still recalls his experience as a boy in the town of Marlton, Arkansas near the Arkansas River. One night, he witnessed a mob assembling to lynch a black man. "I saw them get in the mood to take a human life," he said.

Partly because of the influence of The Strange Career of Jim Crow, Woodward is considered one of the country's foremost authorities on segregation. The book, which sold nearly 700,000 copies, drew considerable attention when it was published, not long after the Supreme Court desegregated public schools. As the situation of blacks changed during and after the civil rights movement, Woodward revised the book twice, in 1965 and 1974. Professor Robin Winks uses Jim Crow in his seminar on race relations and freedom of speech, he insists that historians should not follow political or personal agendas in their work. Today, he said, "historians tend to be known for what good cause they're advancing. That offends me. It distorts and abuses the true purpose of history writing to demonstrate that the historian's job does not end when a book reaches the shelves. In later editions, Winks said, readers can see Woodward rethinking his ideas.


Although he hasn't touched Jim Crow in 15 years, Woodward continues to explore segregation. Despite gains in civil rights achieved during the 1950s and 1960s, the problem has not died, he said. "We solved one part of it, and found that another part is worse." In his article for The New Republic, "The Crisis of Caste," Woodward argues that the growth of an inner-city underclass in the last 20 years represents a new kind of segregation, which he terms "hypersegregation."

"Improvement at the upper end of the economic scale has been accompanied by decline at the lower end, where the great majority of the black population is located," he wrote. "This is race relations without any relations between races- almost total segregation." While white resistance to change has contributed to hypersegregation, Woodward said, other factors have contributed as well. "The so-called underclass has been trapped, and, ironically, it has been deprived of its natural leaders- people of ability, training and education-because the very victory of the civil rights movement emancipated them from segregation, and they got out," he said.

While Woodward offers candid opinions about issues such as race relations and freedom of speech, he insists that historians should not follow political or personal agendas in their work. Today, he said, "historians tend to be known for what good cause they're advancing. That offends me. It distorts and abuses the true purpose of history."

"The historian's role," Woodward said, "is to describe and to analyze and to set forth conclusions dispassionately, and not to serve political or ideological ends." He concedes that it is "impossible and unnatural" to eliminate all subjectivity when writing history. "The historian should make it plain when he is intruding opinion upon evidence," he said.


Woodward believes that good prose is integral to good history, and admires historians like Edward Gibbon and Francis Parkman for their writing as much as for their historical analysis. Few historians today pay attention to the craft of writing, he believes; the result is poorer history. "While historians are normally judged by what they write, they don't realize sufficiently that what they write is powerfully affected by how they write it," he said. "In my definition, good writing is clarity and precision, and is


**Title: The Disappearing Historian**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tory 
t 
attractive. I don't see why history can't 
be attractive." 

But history as an academic dis-
cipline 
seems 
to 
be losing its 
attractiveness for college students. 

From 1971 to 1986 the number of his-
tory degrees awarded in the United 
States decreased from about 46,000 to 
16,000. 

This 
trend 
bothers 
Woodward. In the 1960s, he said, 
students began to feel disconnected 
from the past. H e thinks students have 
turned to other 
fields, 
including 
political 
science, 
sociology and 
psychology, because they believe these 
disciplines are better suited to "solving 
problems now." Woodward looks 
askance at those fields. History shows 
that troubling questions frequently 
persist, and that solutions can lead to 
new problems. The historian may not 
be able to solve those problems, 
Woodward said, but history does 
Provide perspective. "The historian's 
role is to keep the present in touch with 
the past." 

• 
}aclc Wills is a senior in Berke~ Colkge. 


**Title: Book Review/David Greenberg**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Silber's Solution 
Straight Shooting: What's Wrong with 
America and How to Fix It, by John 
Silber, Harper & Row Publishers (New 
York: 1989) 122. 50, 336 pages. 

From the man who brought us faculty 
union-busting and the resurrection of 
parietal rules comes a new treatise that 
traces our nation's problems to the 
failures of our educational system. 

Modestly titled Straight Shooting: What~ 
Wrong with Amenea and How to Fix It, 
this work by Boston University Presi-
dent J ohn Silber offers a polemical 
prescription for curing the country's 
ills. 

Following the trail of Allan Bloom, 
William Bennett and other conser-
26 The New JoumaVDecember I, 1989 
vative gurus of higher education, 
Silber, 
who studied at the Yale 
Divinity School and earned his Ph.D . 
in philosophy here, is treading a well-
beaten path. Silber, however, has a 
broader agenda than his predecessors. 
He tackles not only America's 
intellectual and moral decline, but also 
the problems of Central American 
policy, the U.S. legal system, and 
pass/fail grading. Silber quotes freely 
from Shakespeare and Shaw, Kant and 
Kierkegaard; he points a finger at 
television and sexual promiscuity; and 
he recommends new programs to find 
better teachers and to lower rates of 
teenage pregnancy. The book's 
shotgun attack on a huge range of 
problems comes as no surprise to those 
familiar with Silber's controversial 
reign at Boston University. 

Last year Silber forbade B. U. 
students from hosting overnight guests 
of the opposite sex, explaining to 
outraged undergraduates, "Mr. and 
Mrs. America are sick and tired of 
institutionalized degeneracy." Indeed, 
since he became president of B.U. in 
1970, the pugnacious administrator 
has battled liberal students and 
professors. Twice his faculty has voted 
to dismiss him. In 1976 several 
hundred professors and ten of the 
university's 15 deans signed a petition 
to have him fired. In 1979, professors 
went on strike, complaining that while 

their salaries had grown by only two 
percent a year under Silber, his own 
had soared to $288,000, the highest of 
any university president. 

. In one chapter of Straight Shooting 
Silber rails against what he calls "The 
Litigious Society" and deplores the 
nation's growing tendency to solve 
Problems through the legal system. 
Perhaps this is because he has so often 
found himself in court. In 1985 a B.U. 
Student, with the American Civil 
Liberties Union by his side, suc-
cessfully sued Silber's administration 
for the right to hang a banner that read 
"Divest!" from his dormitory window. 
Two years later, the university lost a 
sex discrimination suit, and had to 
"Mr. and Mrs. 
America are sick and 
tired of 
institutionalized 
degeneracy." 
reinstate an English professor whom it 
had denied tenure. The ad ministration 
finally enjoyed a victory last year, 
when a court of appeals ruled that the 
B. U. faculty could not legally form a 
union. 

Although Silber often seems hostile 
to the interests of his. university, in 
Straight Shooting he appears sincerely 
committed to education. Unlike most 
Reagan-era conservatives, he criticizes 
cutbacks in student financial aid. 
Overwhelming debt forces graduates 
to default on their loans, Silber writes, 
and even leads to moral decay. "They 
become morally no less than finan-
cially bankrupt. By encouraging loan 
programs that foster this irrespon-
sibility, American higher education 
subverts its essential purpose." 

In his chapter on the high costs of 
tuition, Silber shows his faith that 
schools can fix America. "Education , 
understood in its broadest sense, is the 
enduring bridge to social improve-
ment," he writes. "T he social programs 
we have tried have failed because we 
have ignored this essential insight." 

Crime, 
drugs, 
AIDS, 
unemploy-
ment- all these blights of modern 
society grow out of a failed educational 
.system, Silber says. Silber attacks the 
elementary and secondary 
school 
system for offering bilingual education 
that discou rages students from 
learning English, for presenting sex as



**What's Wrong with America and How to Fix It**
**Author: John Silber**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
a matter of personal p reference, devoid 
of m oral 
implications, 
and for 
cultivating mediocre teachers who, 
unable to command 
respec~, invite 
d isdain for intellectual authority. 
Silber advocates teaching ethics at 
an early age, asserting that schools 
should "support the principles and 
values we learn from sound families, 
from religion, and from the best 
examples in the society around us." 
Silber himself made the jump from 
studying theology at Yale Divinity 
School to studying Kantian ethics in 
the philosophy department, but in 
Straight Shooting he ultimately convinces 
neither himself nor the reader that 
schools can take the place of churches 
and families in teaching values. 
"Religious principles and values are 
... helpful," he writes, "though it is 
not the province of society or govern-
ment to provide them." Silber is still 
wrestling with the place of religious 
teachings in public education. 

Another point Silber has not worked 
out is free speech in the university. At 
fU"st he aligns himself with Milton, 
Mill and defenders of the right to 
dissent. "The stron gest support for all 
freedoms," he writes, "is the historical 
fact that for mankin d open controversy 
between different po ints of view is far 
better than the u ncontested presen-
tation of only one." H e 
invokes 
Socrates, J esus C h rist, Galileo and 
Billy Mitchell as victims of society's 
intolerance. Universities, Silber says, 
have a special obligation to protect 
dissenters and encourage the exchange 
of opinions. "The moral safeguard of 
individual 
self-expression 
is 
academic freedom and the courage of 
free individuals," he writes. 

Silber goes on, however, to narrow 
his definition of academic freedom to 
include "the obligation to speak and act 
. . . with reasonable taste, accuracy 
and fairness." Silber says that a 
professor who gives all his students A's 
should 
be fired 
for violating the 
principles of honesty on which a 
university rests. In addition , depart-
ments should not grant tenu re as 
readily as they do. Now, Silber says, 
"tenure functions as sinecure,"


encouraging faculty to abuse their 
academic freedom and to neglect the 
university's search for truth. 

Silber also attacks professors who he 
says spread misinformation. But it 
turns out that he wants to proscribe 
more than just the· historian who 
claims the Holocaust never happened. 
In a chapter called "Poisoning the 
Wells of Academe;" he attacks leftist 
linguist Noam Chomsky for saying: 
"Three times in a g~neration, America 
has 
laid waste ' ii. 
helpless Asian 
country." Silber counters that Japan 
was certainly not helpless in World 
War II, and that the whole U.N. 
rushed to defend South Korea in 1950. 
Silber does not let the matter rest as a 
difference of interpretation, however. 
He reviles Chomsky as an outright 
liar, 
a 
"well-poisoner," and a 
pernicious influence on the academy. 
Like any crusader, Silber sees his own 
opinions as fact. 

Silber's campaign for academic 
freedom admits many other contra-
dictions. He prefers controversy to 
monolithic truth, but has nothing but 
IICOrn for campus activists. He calls 
free expression the first principle of a 
university, but traces the decline of 
higher education in America to the 
Free Speech movement at Berkeley in 
1964. 
He condemns the 
radical 
philosopher Herbert Marcuse for 
advocating tolerance of leftwing views 
but not of rightwing views, yet he 
himself does just the reverse. Finally, 
be argues for a distinction between 
freedom to express an opinion and 
freedom to distort the truth; but he has 
no patience for those who wish to keep 
teachers of racial eugenics out of the


classroom. If William Shockley 
deserves a pulpit, so does Noam 
Chomsky. 

In addition to berating Chomsky, 
Silber brings up his longstanding 
dispute with Howard Zinn, a liberal 
historian at B. U. whose salary Silber 
has frozen. Silber cl;lastises Zinn for 
arguing with his interpretation of Martin 
Luther King's views. Zinn says that King 
went to jail not out of respect for the 
law, but to win popular support. Silber 
responds in Straight Shooting 
b'y 
c.alling the historian a well-poison-
er for "shamelessly distorting 
and degrading King's ethical position." 
By using his book to score points in 
these personal arguments, Silber 
detracts from his persuasiveness. 
He calls pass/fail 
grading an attempt by 
the m iddle class to 
save itself from 
downward mobility. 

A large part of Straight Shooting 
considers popular political questions 
such as abortion, poverty and foreign 
policy. On these matters Silber is not 
so much unpersuasive as simply out of 
his milieu; the chapters read like 
intelligent but amateur position 
papers. Although Silber denies that he 
aspires to hold public office, one 
cannot help suspecting that the last 
hundred pages of Straight Shooting 
constitute an effort to stake out 
political ground. 

On Central America, Silber extra-
polates from the Cuban Missile Crisis 
to 
what he calls 
the "Kennedy 
Doctrine," a policy which would rid the 
Western Hemisphere of Communism 
in places such as Nicaragua. Here 
Silber fails to differentiate between the 
threat of the Ortega government and 
that of Soviet missiles 9o mile~ from 
our shores; he m isconstrues hist'ory in 
the service of a political view, the same 
crime of which he accused Chomsky. 

On abortion, Silber challenges the 
argument that a woman should not 
have to go through pregnancy and 
childbirth because of the toll it will take 
on her. "If a woman can justify the 
termination of a pregnancy following 
voluntary coition, the same line of 
reasoning can be used by healthy and 
able-bodied men to justify abandoning 
wife and children and refusing to pay 
child support," he writes. "In either 
case, personal convenience and com-
fort replace moral responsibility." In 
other words, Silber equates a man's 
responsibility to support a 
child 
financially with a woman's obligation 
to bear the. child. 

In sum, Silber's proposals are a 
mixed lot. Some sound like good ideas, 
such as looking beyond schools of 
education to certify public-school 
teachers. Others seem bizarre, such as 
reviewing all federal regulations every 
ten years for renewal. Still others are 
downright wrongheaded, such as with· 
hold ing welfare checks from first-time 
teenage mothers so as to discourage 
promiscuity. 

Ultimately, Silber weakens his own 
cause by lapsing into generalizations 
and diatribes. Campus activists he calls 
wouid-be tyrants. Pass/fail grading he 
calls an attempt by the middle class to 
save itself from downward mobility. 
He condemns the feminist text Our 
Bodies> 
Ourselves as "rubbish." In 
moments like these Silber speaks with a 
spiteful, imperious tone, as though 
dismissing those who do not agree with 
him will solve America's problems. His 
readers should remember, as Silber 
himself would warn them, to be warY 
of those who claim to have all the 
answers. 

David Greenberg !S a managing ediwr ~1 
TNJ.



**Title: New- Haven Brewing Coinpany Announces Connecticut Ale**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 31**

New- Haven 
Brewing Coinpany 
Announces 
Connecticut Ale 
New Haven Brewing Company 
4-58 Grand Avenue 
New Haven, Connecticut o6 5 I 3 
772-BREW


**Title: Yale Quick-Copy Center**
**Page number(s): 32**

Yale Quick~ Cltpy Center 
14-9 Yi rk 
nly 31/4¢ 
A8cA 
OR K 
Yale llcp 
z 
~ 
:t 
loLl 
0 
I c. 
"' 
< 
...: 
u 
X 
u: 
H J G H 
432-2894 
8 to 5 Monday-Friday 
Resumes 
Table tents 
Posters 
Course materials 
Typesetting from Macintosh disks 
&whatnot 
-
still the lowest prices in Elm City! 
