Publication date: FEB 2018
Volume: 50
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: Eliza Fawcett, Natalie Yang
- managing editor: Victorio Cabrera
- executive editor: Ruby Bilger
- senior editors: Jacob Sweet, Oriana Tang
- associate editors: Antonia Ayres-Brown, Chris Hays, Mark Rosenberg, Annie Rosenthal, Robert Scaramuccia, Arya Sundaram
- copy editors: Philippe Chlenski, Marina Tinone, Amy Xu
- design editors: Julia Hedges, Hazal Özgür
- photo editor: Elinor Hills, Robbie Short
- web developer: Philippe Chlenski


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- points of departure - BEYOND BINARY — Matthew Kleiner
- points of departure - REMEMBRANCE DEFERRED — Yonatan Greenberg
- points of departure - REFRAMING THE CANVAS — Sohum Pal
- snapshot - CHECKED OUT  — Antonia Ayres-Brown
- profile - CURATING A LEGACY — Ben Levin
- cover - BUT IT’S YOU — Rachel Calnek-Sugin
- feature - THE CITY BUILDER — Robert Scaramuccia
- poem - FROM A DARK HOUSE — Dimitri Diagne
- endnote - MANE MAN — William Reid


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: BEYOND BINARY — Matthew Kleiner**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Author: REMEMBRANCE DEFERRED — Yonatan Greenberg**


**Author: REFRAMING THE CANVAS — Sohum Pal**


**Title: snapshot**
**Author: CHECKED OUT  — Antonia Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 10**

In Connecticut, hotels are hubs for human trafficking, but most 
employees aren’t prepared to handle it.


**Title: profile**
**Author: CURATING A LEGACY — Ben Levin**
**Page number(s): 15**

For two decades, Jock Reynolds has led the YUAG by the force of his personality.


**Title: cover**
**Author: BUT IT’S YOU — Rachel Calnek-Sugin**
**Page number(s): 30**

Do our sex offender laws actually make 
communities safer?


**Title: feature**
**Author: THE CITY BUILDER — Robert Scaramuccia**
**Page number(s): 21**

Herbert Newman wants to heal the scars of urban 
renewal. Does everyone have a place in his vision?


**Title: poem**
**Author: FROM A DARK HOUSE — Dimitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 27**



**Title: endnote**
**Author: MANE MAN — William Reid**
**Page number(s): 37**



**Title: BEYOND BINARY**
**Author: Matthew Kleiner**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
BEYOND BINARY
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
Yale researchers compete for the future of quantum computing
Matthew Kleiner
T
here are twelve half-a-million dollar refrigerators on 
the fourth floor of Yale’s Becton Center for Engineer-
ing and Applied Science. Cooled by liquid helium, 
they maintain a temperature of less than a hundredth of 
a degree Celsius above absolute zero. The refrigerators, 
which resemble industrial pipes, hiss in unison like a den of 
snakes. Inside each is a tangle of cords, wires, tubes, and cop-
per plates inscribed with handwritten alphanumeric symbols: 
a primitive quantum computer. 

Scientists and investors envision quantum computing as 
a technology exponentially more powerful than today’s clas-
sical computing. The speed and power of quantum com-
putation has the potential to revolutionize the world of fast 
finance, create an unbreakable system of encryption, and 
model otherwise unpredictable atomic behaviors crucial to 
the development of chemicals and drugs. Recently, several 
major Silicon Valley firms have joined a growing number of 
academic groups in the race to create a working, marketable 
quantum computer. Quantum Circuits, Inc., a New Hav-
en-based startup partnered with the Yale Quantum Institute, 
is considered a top contender to reach that goal, out of a field 
that includes IBM, Microsoft, and Google.

In January, I went to visit Luigi Frunzio, a senior member 
of Yale’s quantum computing department, who had offered to 
show me around. Frunzio has a bushy grey beard and a broad 
smile. He joined Yale’s team in 2003, during the lab’s infancy 
under the direction of professors Michel Devoret and Robert 
Schoelkopf. “It started at the beginning with each of them 
having one post-doc and a couple of PhD students,” Frunzio 
told me in his office. “Now each of them has five post-docs 
and twelve or thirteen graduate students.”

What makes quantum computers so much more powerful 
than classical computers is, most basically, a difference in 
their fundamental hardware. Classical computers store infor-
mation on ‘bits’ that have a choice between two states: one or 
zero, on or off. In a quantum computer, on the other hand, 
two elementary units­—called ‘qubits’—are able to “commu-
nicate” with each other through the quantum phenomena of 
superposition and entanglement. Each qubit can be in two 
states at once, and together they can be in four. Adding more 
qubits increases the computer’s processing potential expo-
nentially.

One of the tasks originally imagined for a quantum com-
puter would be to break enormous numbers into prime fac-
tors in a matter of seconds. These problems can take today’s 
computers days or months to solve, and form the basis of 
modern file encryption and secure communications—Yale’s 
quantum computing lab is, in fact, almost entirely funded by 
federal defense agencies, including IARPA, the Intelligence 
Advanced Research Projects Activity. While it threatens to 
render current encryption methods obsolete, however, quan-
tum technology also comes with its own, far more secure, 
form of encryption. Based on Heisenberg’s uncertainty prin-
ciple—an axiom of quantum mechanics that states that it is 
impossible to measure a particle’s position without changing 
its momentum—quantum cryptography would protect com-
munications from being intercepted. Since eavesdroppers 
cannot measure the characteristics of a quantum system with-
out altering its state, they would be unable to avoid detection. 

Frunzio explained that there remain many serious chal-
lenges to building a functional quantum computer, and even 
more to producing it on a commercial scale. For example, 
the qubits’ communications are only stable at incredibly low 
temperatures; hence the $500,000 refrigerators. “That already 
makes it a tool that my mom will never want to buy,” he said. 
He hopes, though, that the quantum world will eventually be 
downloaded to the “cloud” and available to everyone. IBM 
already put a simple five-qubit computer “online” a little 
over a year ago, and is planning to offer a sixteen-qubit ver-
sion soon (though for a fee). Frunzio points out that, with so 
few qubits, the current online quantum computers are only 
really useful for abstruse calculations foreign to most peo-
ple’s everyday life. But he imagines a not-so-distant future, 
in which users could be connected, for example, to “a video 
game on a quantum computer going so fast that it becomes 
like real life.”


In 2015, Frunzio, Schoelkopf, and Devoret spun off Quan-
tum Circuits, backed by venture capital firms, with the 
goal of commercializing their research. The startup occu-
pies an office on the second floor of 25 Science Park, a five-
story concrete and glass cube at the edge of Dixwell, beyond 
Pauli Murray College. Yale owns the building and rents 
spaces to private companies; down the hall from QCI are 
Kleo Pharmaceuticals’ headquarters and a PepsiCo chemical 
lab. For now, QCI is entirely housed in one long room, the 
windowed side partitioned into office cubicles. 

QCI is closely linked to the Yale quantum computing lab. 
illustration julia hedges


--- Page 5 ---

 5
FEBRUARY 2018
All four of its employees are either graduates of Yale’s quan-
tum physics doctorate program or worked there as postdocs, 
and, through a legal agreement with the university, the startup 
has exclusive rights to the Yale lab’s patents. However, all the 
researchers I met, both at Yale and at QCI, emphasized that 
the two projects have significantly different goals. Yvonne 
Gao, a graduate student studying with Professor Schoelkopf, 
explained that while the Yale academic efforts are focused on 
“the proof of principle experiments, demonstrating that cer-
tain principles of quantum mechanics could be realized in a 
laboratory experiment, QCI will have a very different empha-
sis, because for them it’s really about commercialization, the 
reproducibility of a certain type of device.”

QCI has already been successfully marketing one gad-
get for over a year: a quantum amplifier. “The amplifier is 
the read-out of the computer; it’s the way that you can read 
the qubits,” is how Frunzio described its function. Katrina 
Sliwa, who completed her Ph.D. under the direction of Pro-
fessor Devoret in May 2016 and was hired that same month 
as QCI’s first employee, is an expert in quantum amplifiers. 
She explained that “to go from a proof-of-concept device to a 
product, you have to worry about how reproducible you can 
make these things, how reliable you can make these things, 
and then there are small changes to the design that can be 
made to make them more user-friendly.” 

Professor Devoret helped to found QCI, but he recently 
left the company, feeling that tailoring quantum computing 
research to the market limits the scope of possible findings. 
Devoret, who is French, wears thick-framed glasses and 
speaks slowly and softly. “It’s not by perfecting candles that 
you discover electricity,” he told me in his office. “The indus-
tries only want to fund incremental research. They don’t 
want to fund wide research that looks far ahead in the future, 
they just want to make better products.” He prefers the way 
government grants are issued to Yale’s lab, less earmarked for 
specific projects and more designated for general exploration 
of the subject. “The great scientific discoveries have always 
been funded by governments. [The Yale lab’s money] is com-
ing from the American taxpayer. And I think it’s healthy, I 
think that’s what the government is for, doing this long-term 
investment in knowledge.”

I asked Frunzio whether the first quantum computer to 
surpass classical capabilities will come out of Yale. “I don’t 
think it’s going to come out of the Yale academic effort. 
Because, you see, why would I ask one of my students to 
repeat the same experiment fifty or sixty times?” he said, add-
ing, “But I hope that QCI will be in that race. Will it be the 
first? We’ll see.”

Frunzio is optimistic about QCI’s chances because he feels 
the competitive advantage in such a cutting-edge field lies 
primarily with small, focused startups, rather than enormous 
tech giants. Large companies are interested in staying com-
petitive in relevant consumer markets and will only heavily 
invest in new domains once they become profitable. “It’s the 
difference between a mammal and a dinosaur,” Frunzio said. 
“You know, the dinosaur is big, but just to think to move his 
tail takes a long time because it’s so big.” 

The mammal is certainly thinking hard. Its tail hasn’t 
moved much yet, but if you look closely, you’ll see it begin-
ning to twitch.
— Matthew Kleiner is a first-year  
in Saybrook College.


**Title: REMEMBRANCE DEFERRED**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 6**

 6
REMEMBRANCE DEFERRED
Over a century after the Civil War, a Connecticut town works to remember its slaves.
Yonatan Greenberg
G
uilford, a town of twenty-thousand half an hour 
north of New Haven, is a place that loves its past. 
There are three historical societies, and in the 
town center, by the chocolatier and tea shop, historical 
markers nearly outnumber street signs. A lone soldier 
stands at the center of the town green, looming over the 
dog walkers and families. Tall and imposing, with a mus-
ket by his side, he is the centerpiece of an 1877 memorial 
dedicated to the town’s Civil War veterans. Until recently, 
there was no such memorial for the town’s slaves, who are 
buried beneath him. In Connecticut, slavery dates back 
to the mid-1600s, and though it’s hard to know when it 
reached Guilford, by the late 1700s there were around fifty 
slaves living there. For all that Guilford loves to remem-
ber, until not long ago, their slaves had been forgotten.

A few years ago, frustrated that the textbooks he used 
almost never mentioned Northern slavery, Dennis Cul-
liton, a history teacher at Adams Middle School in Guil-
ford, set out to unearth the stories of the town’s slaves. 
He dug through court documents, wills, and property 
archives, and eventually found records of over seventy 
slaves who had lived there. Two years ago, Culliton pre-
sented his findings to a local historical society. Afterwards, 
fellow resident Doug Nygren approached him with the 
idea of memorializing the slaves’ lives in stone. Nygren 
was inspired by a recent trip to Germany, where he had 
encountered a project by the artist Gunter Demnig that 
placed small memorials called stolpersteine (“stumbling 
stones”) outside the final residences of Jewish victims of 
the Holocaust. The project began in 1992 and has since 
grown beyond the bounds of Germany, with fifty-six thou-
sand stolpersteine installed in twenty-two European coun-
tries. 

Last year, Culliton, Nygren, and a few other Guilford 
residents founded the Witness Stones Project, which plans 
to install memorial stones each year and organize educa-
tional events to remind residents of the enslaved men and 
women who lived, labored, and died in their town. Now, 
three “stones” are scattered across the streets of Guilford, 
placed on the sites of three slaves’ homes––one outside 
the town hall, one outside the local bank, and one outside 
a historic house. The small brass squares fit smoothly into 
the brick sidewalk, shining faintly in daylight, hardly vis-
ible by night.

The project also enlisted the help of local eighth grad-
ers, who dedicated a month of their history curriculum 
this year to studying Culliton’s findings. Following a gen-
eral unit on slavery, they then wrote biographies of Guil-
ford’s slaves, almost all of whom had never been written 
about before. Guilford has about three-hundred eighth 
graders, and if the project continues, a new crop of stu-
dents will continue the project each year. At the installa-
tion ceremony for the first three stones this past Novem-
ber, eighth grader Theo Freeman read the biography he 
wrote about Candace, a slave who lived in Guilford in 
the late 1700s and worked as a baker. “Candace found a 
way to be her own person, even as a slave,” Theo said, 
speaking to the crowd of parents, students, and residents 
gathered on the Guilford Green. “She also wrote her own 
will, which most slaves didn’t do. Some people may think 
this is impossible, but she did it.”

One of the project’s aims is to show Guilford’s residents, 



**Title: Witness Stones**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Free Library about Kindred by Octavia Butler, a novel that 
oscillates between a plantation in antebellum Maryland 
and 1976 California. After that, she’s considering Ta-Nehisi 
Coates’s “The Case for Reparations.” Carby, who thinks 
the United States is segregated enough to be considered 
an apartheid state, hopes the project will push Guilford 
residents to realize that the difference between slavery and 
contemporary society is smaller than they think.


One evening, as the sun started to set over the green, a 
mom walked by one of the Guilford Witness stones with 
her child. In the fading light, the coaster-sized brass was 
hard to see, but the girl, perhaps one of Culliton’s eighth 
graders, pulled her mom to a stop and pointed at the stone 
insistently. “Moses: Enslaved Here: 1762-1812,” it read. The 
mom smiled at her daughter, looked down at the stone for 
a few moments, then picked her head back up, ready to 
keep walking. The girl stayed in place, still staring at the 
stone, not yet ready to leave.
— Yonatan Greenberg is a first-year  
in Saybrook College.

ninety-six percent of whom are white, that enslaved Afri-
can Americans are an integral part of the town’s history. 
Kristine Iglesias, a lifelong Guilford resident and found-
ing member of Witness Stones, grew up thinking that 
she and her family were among the town’s first Black res-
idents. “I’m glad my parents chose Guilford,” she said at 
the installation ceremony. “And while I’m not blind to the 
prejudices that still exist here, I am fiercely loyal to this 
town.” As Iglesias was growing up, fellow residents some-
times assumed that she was an underprivileged girl from 
New Haven, or that she was related to her principal, who 
was also Black. Like most people in Guilford, she only 
recently learned through Culliton that slaves had once 
lived there, and the discovery has deepened her connec-
tion to the town. “There’s no such thing as good slavery, 
but there are stories of people who had lives, communi-
ties, families to come home to,” Iglesias said. “There’s a 
sadness to it, but it’s also empowering, to me and my kids 
as well, knowing that Black people helped make this town 
what it is.” 


Hazel Carby, a Witness Stones board member and 
professor of African American Studies at Yale, wants to 
expand the project’s scope within Guilford. On February 
21, she will lead a book club discussion at the Guilford


**Title: Reframing the Canvas**
**Author: Sohum Pal**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

The Yale Center for British Art helps visitors 
engage critically with its collection


Zebra, a 1763 painting by George Stubbs, serves as the 
mascot of the Yale Center for British Art on shirts, 
mugs, and bumper stickers. But to Linda Fried-
laender, Senior Curator of Education, the Stubbs painting 
also embodies the YCBA’s recent shift toward a more crit-
ical perspective. “Before, we would talk about the story of 
how Queen Charlotte received the zebra from explorers in 
Africa, and what a gifted painter Stubbs was, and we’d talk 
about the painterly qualities of the work,” she explained. 
“But really, the zebra functions as a symbol of the imperial 
project of Britain, and hearing that [from one of the gradu-
ate students] gave me the chance to step back and consider 
all the paintings [in the collection] from that lens.”


In a seminar room off the museum’s lobby, Friedlander, 
who has worked at the YCBA since its opening in 1977, 
passes around copies of a news article to twenty-one under-
graduates. These are the YCBA Student Guides, a group 
of students selected to design tours and lead the public 
through the Center’s three-story collection. The article is 
about Therese Dreaming, a painting that depicts an ado-
lescent girl with legs spread apart and underwear revealed, 
housed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. “There’s a peti-
tion going around to either remove or further contextualize 
this painting by Balthus,” she says, holding up a print-out of 
the painting. “So what do you do? Let’s start there.” 


That question—critical and topical—is typical of the dis-
cussions at weekly Student Guide classes. The YCBA’s pri-
mary benefactor, Paul Mellon, envisioned the Center as a 
repository of “beautiful works of art for Yale students” when 
he presented his collection to the University in 1966. But 
as the analytical stance on “Britishness” has shifted focus 
toward the country’s imperial legacy, the Center has begun 
to rethink its engagement with the term. As part of that 
process, the YCBA’s Education Department has altered the 
Student Guide program to reflect a newly critical attitude 
toward Britain’s representation, both in the artwork and in 
the world at large.


On a recent January afternoon, Curator of Education 
and Academic Outreach Jennifer Reynolds-Kaye began 
another class with a presentation on “The British After-
lives of Pre-Columbian Art.” Framing the art of the pre-co-
lonial Americas through a British lens is unorthodox, but 
for Reynolds-Kaye, that’s the point. The usual confines 
of the imagined British empire don’t cut it here—British 
imperialism cleaves a wide fissure through world history, 
and, under the tutelage of the Education Department, the 
Guides are learning how to tell museum visitors about it.


The museum’s critical shift, Friedlaender thinks, 
was spurred by the wave of political activism that 
rocked American college campuses, including Yale, 
in 2015. Likening it to the current #MeToo movement, 
Friedlaender believes that “2015 was a time when students 
of color at Yale and around the country started breaking the 
silence around [colleges’] treatment of minority students.” 
Shortly thereafter, in early 2016, the YCBA closed to the 
public for extended building conservation. The closure 
period provided the staff with an opportunity to reevaluate 
the museum’s mission and vision with respect to the con-
cerns raised by the protests. In particular, the YCBA began 
to consider ways in which its collection could serve as a 
means of engaging with the legacies of slavery and impe-
rialism, not only for students, but for members of the New 
Haven community. Friedlaender said that programming 
involving New Haven residents, local schools, and profes-
sionals from other museums has transformed the timbre of 
the YCBA and diversified the demographics of the muse-
um’s visitors. 


With these new goals in mind, the museum reorganized 
its permanent collection for its 2016 reopening under the 
dictum “Britain in the World.” “It’s no longer just about 

British culture and history, stuck on a small island sand-
wiched between the Atlantic Ocean and the North Sea,” 
said Student Guide Jordan Schmolka, who has been in the 
program since 2016. “The YCBA is in the process of looking 
outward, redefining its mission and using its collection to 
address how Britain’s history has affected those beyond its 
borders.” To prompt this kind of thinking in the museum’s 
visitors, Schmolka and other Guides discuss why figures 
are depicted in certain positions or with particular lighting 
effects and how power is asserted through a work’s compo-
sition.


The art can be jarring, Friedlaender pointed out while 
describing a prominent eighteenth-century portrait 
of Elihu Yale. He sits at the center of the canvas, 
surrounded by other prominent men. At the right bottom 
corner, a Black slave waits, looking at his master. “That 
Black servant in the corner—he’s finely dressed, but there’s 
a collar and a padlock around his neck,” she observes. “He 
would have been locked up at night.” Focusing on formal 
details—like the appearance of the padlock as a represen-
tation of chattel bondage—helps students consider impe-
rialism, slavery, and race, while “show[ing] how Britain’s 
imperialist history pervades absolutely everything in the 
museum,” Schmolka says. Her own tour, “Paint It Black: A 
History of the Color,” focuses on the history of black pig-
mentation in the collection, and discusses the ways Black-
ness has been constructed in lockstep with racial alterity.


While Schmolka and Friedlaender agree that the col-
lection serves as a nexus for engaging with imperial leg-
acy, they also emphasize the complementary relevance of 
recent programming. Schmolka and Sonia Gadre, another 
Student Guide, noted the “Things of Beauty Growing” 
exhibition that closed last December, which explored how 
vessel traditions from the British Isles, China, and Korea 
came together in novel ways to birth contemporary British 
pottery. 


Students have been crucial in transforming the muse-
um’s approach to race and representation. Since 2014, the 
Guides have had a hand in shaping the YCBA’s collection 
by selecting a work on paper for acquisition through the 
John O’Brien Fund each year. Both initiatives are shifting 
attention from the dazzling metropolitan centers of the for-
mer British Empire to the margins, with an emphasis on 
the traces of colonial rule. To Gadre, the Student Guides 
are challenging the notion that the YCBA is antiquated and 
pretentious. “We are young and we are here to help you 
through the museum’s resources,” she said. “That in itself 
seems to turn the stereotype of stuffy old British art on its 
head.”
— Sohum Pal is a sophomore 
in Branford College.



**Title: CHECKED OUT**
**Author: Antonia Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Neil Hughes works the front reception desk at the Mayflower Motel in Milford, Connecticut, he always stays alert. Nestled between car service stations in a retail area just off Interstate 95, the motel where he has been employed for the past eight years doesn’t look particularly vulnerable to crime: a table in the front office is scattered with cheap romance novels that visitors are invited to borrow; one wall is decorated with a playful plaque that reads, “I work 40 hours a week to be this poor”; guests stream in and out of the office to check in, chat with one another, and buy snacks. But Hughes, who lives on the premises, doesn’t let the familiarity of the space blind him to the threat currently afflicting Connecticut hotels and motels: human trafficking.


Behind the counter where Hughes works, the Mayflower Motel’s management team has hung several informational posters about how to identify and respond to signs of trafficking. Some of the clues are conspicuous, such as a woman with visible bruises, or a guest aggressively refusing to let his companion speak. But others, Hughes noted, are less obvious: a young girl checking in with a much older man, or even a feeling in his gut.
“If something doesn’t look right, it usually isn’t,” he said, stuffing his hands in his pocket with a sense of proud authority. Hughes hasn’t observed any signs of trafficking at the Mayflower recently, but in the event that he ever does, he knows to call the authorities.


Hughes’s vigilance and preparedness reflect a recent statewide push to raise awareness about human trafficking in the lodging sector—a movement that the Connecticut state legislature most recently advanced with Public Act No. 16-71. The bill, which became law in 2016, was enacted in response to the more than 650 underage victims of trafficking referred to the Connecticut Department of Children and Families since 2008. Before Public Act No. 16-71 was instituted, Connecticut prosecutors had not succeeded in convicting a single perpetrator since trafficking was made a felony in 2006. Its measures include a new requirement that hotels and motels keep records of all guests and receipts for at least six months following each transaction, as well as an unfunded mandate that all lodging employees receive human trafficking awareness training before October 1, 2017.


Today, the bill’s success remains largely uncertain. On the one hand, the preparedness of employees like Neil Hughes suggests that it has worked. The Human Trafficking Prevention Project, an initiative run by Quinnipiac Law School students, has trained an estimated 350 hotel and motel employees across the state. Yet disagreements concerning the legislation’s technical stipulations persist, a majority of lodging employees remain untrained, and anti-trafficking advocates are tasked with enforcing a bill that has no financial carrot or legal stick. Now, several months after the supposed October 1 deadline for training completion, critics and proponents of the bill are grappling with the same question: if Public Act No. 16-71 isn’t self-enforcing, how can service-providers and prosecutors make it effective?


“In general, people still believe trafficking happens someplace else. It’s something in the movies,” said Tammy Sneed, Director of Adolescent Services at the Connecticut Department of Children and Families. This “not in my state” attitude, she believes, is why so many residents are surprised to learn that hundreds of local minors are trafficked in Connecticut each year. Sneed is also the director of the Human Anti-Trafficking Response Team (HART), a statewide collaboration between individuals from diverse professional backgrounds—law enforcement, mental health providers, anti-trafficking advocates, and more. The HART team’s primary purpose is to identify and provide support services to survivors of trafficking and youth at risk of exploitation.


There are seventeen HART liaisons throughout the state, each responsible for covering a different geographic region and connecting local youth with necessary services. In 2014, HART received ninety-four unique referrals of minors who were either confirmed survivors of trafficking or suspected of being trafficked. The next year, the program received 133 referrals. In 2016, the most recent year for which HART has complete data, the program received 202 referrals. 
Despite this concerning trend, Sneed said it’s often difficult for Connecticut residents to recognize the threat and impact of the trafficking industry because so much of its business is conducted in a nearly invisible arena: the web.


“Many of our kids are being recruited via the internet,” Sneed said. “So they’re often being groomed by the internet, and often… they’re being sold by the internet.” Victims are typically first targeted on social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, and Grindr, where traffickers can cultivate close friendships with dozens of underage children simultaneously. Sneed noted that people tend to assume children in urban areas are at the highest risk of being trafficked, but HART has encountered several rural cases in which minors were trafficked despite living several miles from their closest neighbors. 
Once traffickers gain the trust of these children, their industry of exploitation thrives on internet platforms like Backpage and Craigslist, websites that allow users to post free classified advertisements. Since 2010, Backpage has repeatedly come under fire for knowingly tolerating advertisements for the sexual exploitation of minors. In 2017, Backpage removed the “Adult Services” section of their website and cracked down on illicit language, but traffickers continue to advertise minors using misspellings and widely-understood code words. “New in town,” one anti-trafficking advocate explained, universally means that the advertised individual is underage. Other posts advertise “yung” girls in order to avoid the website’s filter on the word “young.”


Roughly half of the youth who are trafficked in Connecticut are already in the Department of Children and Families system at the time of their trafficking. In addition to hailing from a range of communities—urban, suburban, and rural—these vulnerable minors also cross racial demographics and family backgrounds. In 2016, 37 percent of HART’s clients were white, 28 percent were Black, and 24 percent were Latinx. A reported 58 percent of these minors resided with their parents at the time of their exploitation, but 16 percent were runaways and 11 percent were living in foster care. Gender is the one constant across most of Sneed’s clients: although HART cares for survivors of all genders, more than 91 percent of those served in 2016 were women.


In 2004, the Connecticut legislature created the Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Council to examine the issue of trafficking in the state and make policy recommendations. Jillian Gilchrest, the Director of Health Professional Outreach at the Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence, chairs the council, whose twenty-five members come from both the public and private sectors.


The TIP Council’s research indicates that the trafficking industry (both sexual and labor) thrives in Connecticut because of the state’s close proximity to both New York City and Boston. Travel is cheap in Connecticut, and traffickers can constantly move along the Interstate 95 corridor to evade police detection. Food and lodging prices are typically lower than in the neighboring two major cities, and the demand for underage sex work is high. “What people aren’t understanding is that, no, no, there is an industry for selling youth,” Gilchrest said. In other words, working in Connecticut is a good business move for traffickers.


With the help of the TIP Council, the Connecticut Joint Committee on Judiciary introduced a new in-state anti-trafficking bill—which would later evolve into Public Act No. 16-71—in the spring of 2016. The proposed legislation included a number of provisions designed to regulate lodging properties’ role in human trafficking, including the six month policy governing record keeping and the mandate concerning employee awareness training. If lodging property owners failed to train their employees by October 1, 2017, they would be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. Finally, hotels and motels would be banned from offering hourly rates for room rentals. But by the time Governor Dannel Malloy signed the new bill, Public Act No. 16-71, into law on June 1, 2016, congressmen had removed most of the legislation’s teeth.

The Connecticut lodging industry strongly opposed the stipulations outlined by the original bill. For a public hearing in March 2016, the president of the Connecticut Lodging Association, Victor Antico, wrote a letter urging lawmakers to consider an alternative “strong anti-human trafficking campaign that focuses on the nature of the issue not the regulation of an industry used in the process.” Two days later, the Judiciary Committee filed a substitute bill that omitted the ban on hourly rentals. The final legislation also failed to allocate funding for the trafficking awareness training requirement.


Legislators successfully defended Section 5, which required that lodging owners “ensure that each employee of such hotel, motel, inn or similar lodging receive training at the time of hire on the (1) recognition of potential victims of human trafficking, and (2) activities commonly associated with human trafficking.” By October 1, 2017, hotel and motels owners would theoretically need to certify that all employees received this training. However, without funds, the training initiative had no monetary support to incentivize hotel and motel staff to attend training sessions, or to compensate the instructors of these trainings.


Lastly, Public Act No. 16-71 included no explicit methods for ensuring that lodging property owners would be held accountable to the bill. No government body was created or assigned to verify that all properties complied with the bill by the 2017 deadline. Throughout the legislative process, even the section designating failure to train employees as a class A misdemeanor was cut—meaning the final draft of the bill removed most of the legislation’s teeth.


In January 2017, Governor Malloy announced a public-private partnership between several bodies, including the Connecticut Department of Children and Families (DCF), the Connecticut Lodging Association, Marriott International, Quinnipiac Law School, and Grace Farms Foundation, a




**Connecticut's Fight Against Human Trafficking**
**Author: Antonia Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 13
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
FEBRUARY 2018
non-profit organization in New Canaan that contributed to 
the development of Public Act No. 16-71. With the help of 
anti-trafficking organizations Polaris Project and EPCAT, an 
international network that began as the campaign to End 
Child Prostitution in Asian Tourism, Marriott International 
developed a hotel employee training program on human 
trafficking in 2011. Quinnipiac Law School professor Sheila 
Hayre had mostly worked against labor trafficking before she 
got involved, but she stepped up to ensure that the Connecti-
cut hotel and motel trainings were run effectively. Since 
then, Hayre and her team of over thirty Quinnipiac student 
volunteers have become the vehicle for these trainings.
Hayre estimates that since last January, they’ve organized 
ten sessions for hotel employees across the state of Connecti-
cut. The Quinnipiac Human Trafficking Prevention Proj-
ect workshops follow the Marriott curriculum, but the law 
students attempt to incorporate local examples when they 
can. (They typically have to explain, for example, why hotels 
and motels along Connecticut’s I-95 corridor are so prone 
to becoming sites of trafficking.) Additionally, the student 
organizers gather a panel of four or five experts—from law 
enforcement, the DCF, or anti-trafficking organizations—to 
answer hotel and motel employees’ questions at the end of 
each training session.

Since beginning their workshops, the Quinnipiac team 
has found it most effective to reach out to hotels and motels 
and deliver the trafficking awareness trainings on site. This 
approach has had success thus far, but Hayre is unsure if 
they will ever be able to train every lodging worker in the 
state with this approach. “Honestly, I don’t think we’ve even 
touched the tip of the iceberg,” she said.
Sarah Washburn, an employee of the Connecticut Lodg-
ing Association and the association’s representative on the 
Connecticut TIP Council, echoed Hayre. “The general reac-
tion has been challenging,” Washburn said. “The effort to 
get the training done by that date [October 1, 2017] has been 
hard for the industry.” When listing lodging properties’ train-
ing options in an interview, Washburn noted that many own-
ers ask their employees to simply read and sign informational 
materials. Others, she said, can send a representative to one 
of the Quinnipiac workshops and then have that representa-
tive review the curriculum with other employees when they 
return.

Sheila Hayre, however, believes Public Act No. 16-71 
forbids businesses from sending a representative who will 
subsequently train other staff members—and she expressed 
concern that this misunderstanding could actually have dan-
gerous consequences. “It’s kind of horrifying that people are 
thinking, ‘We can send a rep and have that happen,’” Hayre 
said. “Trafficking is an elusive, very difficult-to-define topic, 
so we do not want folks who are not well-versed around traf-
ficking issues to be dealing with this.”


---

**The Dangers of Vigilante Justice in Human Trafficking**
**Page number(s): 14**

I
n 2011, Shelia Fredrick, a flight attendant for Alaska Air-
lines, noticed something off about a girl in a window seat. 
The teenager had a bruise on her leg, was traveling with a 
much older man, and looked distressed. Fredrick knew some-
thing wasn’t right. She decided to intervene.
While the man was looking away, Fredrick caught the girl’s 
attention and mouthed to go to the bathroom, where she had 
left paper and a pen. When Fredrick later checked the bath-
room, she found a note: “I need help.” The flight attendant 
immediately alerted the captain, and law enforcement offi-
cials arrived at the airport before the flight landed.
A BuzzFeed article about Fredrick’s intervention went viral 
in 2017, with thousands of people applauding the flight atten-
dant for her quick thinking. But Sheila Hayre sometimes tells 
this story in trafficking awareness trainings as an example of 
exactly what not to do.
“We actually point out that that’s extremely dangerous—
both to yourself, the people around you, the people you work 
with, but also to the victim,” Hayre said. “While you want to 
engage in vigilante justice, and you really want to help these 
folks, you can actually endanger them.” If the adult male traf-
ficker had found Fredrick’s note, Hayre explained, he could 
have reacted violently. Furthermore, many victims of sexual 
trafficking, at the time of their exploitation, do not see them-
selves as victims and instead think of their traffickers as their 
boyfriends.

But while the Quinnipiac Law School trainings discour-
age workers from pursuing vigilante justice, they still discuss 
myriad examples of what hotel and motel workers should rec-
ognize as signs of trafficking. Then, they say, the most appro-
priate response is to let law enforcement handle it.
“What I tell folks to pay attention to is the dynamics 
between the adult and the minor, or sometimes what they 
think is a young adult. Does the situation seem to be very 
controlling? Is the adult doing all the talking? Are they 
attempting to secure a hotel room with cash [and] without 
identification?” said Tammy Sneed, who has served as an 
expert panelist.
The trainings also emphasize that trafficking awareness 
must be a collaborative effort between staff members in dif-
ferent roles. “When you’re cleaning staff, and you’re going 
into a hotel room, and you’re supposedly renting to a father 
“While you want to 
engage in vigilante 
justice, and you really 
want to help these folks, 
you can actually 
endanger them.”
and his two daughters, and you see sex toys or you see lubri-
cant all over the place, that to me is a huge red flag,” Sneed 
said. “If you’re working at the front desk, and you have a room 
that keeps renting pornography, and again you’re supposed 
to have a family staying in a particular room, that would be 
a concern.” Many hotel and motel employees are afraid of 
reporting a client and being incorrect, but communicating 
with other employees about their observations often empow-
ers them to call the authorities.

And reporting a potential instance of trafficking in Con-
necticut is as easy as that—just placing a phone call. This 
procedure ensures law enforcement is involved early on, and 
deters unqualified “vigilantes” from intervening counterpro-
ductively. Once lodging employees call the Connecticut 
trafficking tip line or local police, their responsibilities are 
supposedly fulfilled. “You need to err on the side of caution. 
Because mistakes will be made, but the trick is, they don’t 
have to be made by you. Your job is to report,” Hayre said.
Hotel and motel employees have been receptive at the 
trafficking awareness trainings thus far, and many have been 
shocked by how pertinent the issue of trafficking is in Con-
necticut. After hearing about sexual trafficking on Backpage, 
one property owner visited the website to see for himself. He 
was devastated to find an advertisement that featured a photo 
of an underage girl being trafficked in his own hotel. The 
trafficker had already vacated the room by this point, but the 
property owner’s sense of immunity was shattered. He swore 
to be more vigilant in the future.

Despite these moments of success, anti-trafficking advo-
cates are still weighing how to bring about widespread 
enforcement of Public Act No. 16-71. Because the bill’s train-
ing initiative has no funding—and there have been no legal 
consequences for properties that did not finish training by 
October 1, 2017—many advocates are shifting toward moral 
arguments. If most hotels now boast about being eco-friendly, 
why can’t they create a culture in which hotels also want to 
be openly anti-trafficking? Sheila Hayre thinks this may be an 
effective strategy in Connecticut, but she is not hopeful about 
the replicability of the training mandate in other states. “In 
larger states…I just can’t imagine how they’d be able to do 
this without funding. Already it’s quite difficult to do it with 
all the traveling, and [Connecticut is] quite a small state.”
Tammy Sneed recognizes Public Act No. 16-71’s lack of 
teeth, but the HART team is dedicated to making the bill 
work, even if progress is slower than expected. “In a perfect 
world, we would have some money to make it easier to imple-
ment,” she said. “But we can’t just be dependent on that, 
because the reality is money’s not out there. And the crimi-
nals are out there making money.”
— Antonia Ayres-Brown is a junior 
in Branford College.



**Curating a Legacy**
**Author: Ben Levin**
**Page number(s): 15**

 15
P R O F I L E S
For two decades, Jock Reynolds has led the YUAG by the force of his personality
A
n expansive circle composed of intersecting lines 
levitates on a wall in the lobby of the Yale University 
Art Gallery. Close up, specks of white emerge from 
blackness like stars in a compacted night sky. Jock Reynolds 
will explain to anyone who walks into the Gallery that this 
wall drawing by Sol Lewitt includes ten-thousand straight 
black lines and ten-thousand not-straight black lines. Reyn-
olds, who was a longtime friend of LeWitt’s, told me that 
each of LeWitt’s drawings comes with a “certificate” that “is 
a little bit like a musical score,” conducting the artists who 
execute the piece. Last December, the final not-straight 
lines were drawn by visitors invited to participate in the cul-
mination of the installation. 
On a January afternoon, Reynolds, the director of the 
museum, walks through its galleries with a swift, easy gait. 
He calls out animated greetings to passing curators and the 
security guards standing watch in the corners of the rooms. 
At seventy, he is tall and broad, with neatly trimmed white 
hair and a big, flushed face. Speaking quickly and fervently, 
he packs his sentences with fine detail, diving into a narra-
tion of his time at the Gallery before I can ask him a ques-
tion. He moves excitedly from room to room, his warmth is 
accompanied by a sense of ownership: this three-building 
museum complex on Chapel Street is his masterpiece.
This spring, after two decades of leadership, Reynolds 
will step down as the director of the Gallery. Over the 
course of his tenure, he has led the museum’s transforma-
tion from a neglected institution with scattered holdings to 
a world-class collection of art displayed in elegantly reno-
vated galleries. Under his tenure, the museum has added 
new departments, significantly increased its visitation, and 
solidified its status as a leading teaching museum. Today, 
the Gallery has 160 students involved in educational pro-
grams—as many as it has full-time employees. Reynolds 



**Title: Jockism at the Yale University Art Gallery**
**Author: Ben Levin**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
has led the Gallery with a blend of personal warmth and 
a firm belief in its cause, proselytizing on the power of the 
Gallery’s art and the importance of its educational mission.

Beginning in the early two-thousands, administrators 
asked students to put on programming and help configure 
rooms. “Students didn’t give us a bad suggestion, ever,” 
Reynolds told me. Students began co-curating exhibitions 
and recommended that the Gallery have a homey lobby 
space, which explains the curvy green chairs and spongy 
grey couches. Reynolds hopes that close engagement with 
students will teach them to think visually and innovatively. 
“You want to pass on your knowledge to younger people,” 
he said, so that they can “outdo you in every respect.”

Pausing in the main lobby of the Gallery, Reynolds re-
flects on the acuity of the architectural juxtaposition of Le-
Witt’s paintings and Louis Kahn’s windows. His voice lifts 
with raw zeal as he turns to me. “You’re here now. This mu-
seum is here with an incredible collection. And it’s yours! 
It’s here for you all!” His face is earnest and insistent, and 
for the moment I am totally sold, my skin prickling from 
the force of his democratic proclamation.

R
eynolds grew up in Davis, California, where his 
mother was a botanist and his father was a microbi-
ologist teaching at the University of California, Da-
vis. He always liked making things: he remembers building 
cages and hen houses as a child, and had a miniature tool 
bench next to his dad’s. As a teenager at Phillips Academy 
in Andover, Massachusetts, he began to learn about art, 
studying the Josef Albers-Bauhaus school and frequently 
retreating to the Addison Gallery, Andover’s American art 
museum, to do his classwork. In between assignments, he 
enjoyed getting lost in famous American paintings.

But it wasn’t until he joined the inaugural class of UC 
Santa Cruz that Reynolds began developing his own ar-
tistic practice. As a senior influenced by visiting artists 
from the experimental Fluxus school, his work included 
a toothbrush with real teeth for bristles. After graduation, 
he enrolled in the MFA program at the UC Davis. There, 
his artwork explored biological life cycles, and he crafted 
process-oriented, ephemeral work using plants he grew on 
a small farm. In 1973, fresh out of graduate school, Reyn-
olds joined the faculty of San Francisco State University. 
Over the next decade, he directed the University’s Center 
for Experimental and Interdisciplinary Art and delved into 
theatre, designing sets for plays and dance performances.

The nineteen-seventies, Reynolds says, was “a very 
yeasty and creative decade,” and living in California, he 
soon found himself in the thick of it all. He met Suzanne 
Hellmuth, a dancer, choreographer, and performance art-
ist from Oberlin, while designing a set for a show she was 
involved with. The young couple married in 1977, after 
helping found 80 Langton Street, an alternative arts space 
in a defunct casket factory in San Francisco. The arts scene 
there was still small enough that most people knew each 
other, and the theatre, music and visual arts communities 
melded together. With institutional support hard to come 
by, the young artists worked day jobs—anything from teach-
ing to carpentry—and collaborated in their studios, sharing 
space, resources, and ideas. Their scrimping soon paid off: 
by the late nineteen-seventies, Reynolds’ and Hellmuth’s 
work was being shown in galleries on the East Coast and 
in Europe.

In the early nineteen-eighties, Reynolds entered museum 
administration as director of the Washington Project for the 
Arts, an alternative art space in D.C. Richard J. Powell, who 
was the WPA’s director of programs during Reynolds’s last 
years there and now teaches art and art history at Duke Uni-
versity, says that at the WPA, Reynolds fostered a “collabora-
tive, intellectually stimulating, and fun environment.”

After six years in Washington, Reynolds was recruited 
to return to the museum he had loved as a teenager, this 
time as its director. Over the next decade running Andover’s 
Addison Gallery, Reynolds oversaw what he later called a 
“mini version” of the expansion he would lead at Yale. Un-
der Reynolds’s leadership, the Addison Gallery’s annual vis-
itation numbers jumped from ten thousand to around six-
ty-five thousand, the collection and endowment grew, and 
community outreach programming expanded. Reynolds 
gained practice fundraising from a wealthy alumni pool, 
bringing in new art, and coordinating extensive outreach 
programs—all tasks he would scale up and master at Yale. 
Allison Kemmerer, a curatorial assistant at the Addison 
during Reynolds’ time, describes Reynolds as someone who 
routinely thinks big, and with so much enthusiasm that his 
ambitious plans actually become possible. Sometimes, this 
meant persuading colleagues to embark on projects they 
weren’t entirely sure of. Even today, in the offices of the 
Addison, the term “Jockism” is playfully used to refer to the 
act of onboarding someone before they quite know what 
they are getting themselves into.


--- Page 17 ---

 17
By the mid-nineteen-nineties, former University Presi-
dent Richard Levin began lobbying Reynolds to come to 
Yale. Since 1995, Levin had been putting together a master 
plan to renovate the art gallery. One of the Gallery’s build-
ings was partially roofless, and Levin hoped to renovate and 
expand its facilities. He had heard about Reynolds’ work at 
the Addison; Reynolds remembers Levin telling him, “This 
is what we need in New Haven—come on down!” Reyn-
olds already had some friends at Yale, including then-Dean 
of Yale College Dick Brodhead, who had been a year ahead 
of Reynolds at Andover, when he signed on as Director in 
1998. Between 2004 and 2012 all three buildings were reno-
vated, Reynolds proudly reports, “without closing the muse-
um for a single day.” Today, Reynolds takes evident delight 
in pointing out the high-tech hidden ventilation system in 
the Chapel Street building, which heats and cools the John 
Trumbull paintings that formed the Gallery’s founding col-
lection in 1832.

Reynolds has also overseen huge expansions in the scope 
of the Gallery’s permanent collections, helping to create 
new departments in Photography, African Art, and Indo-Pa-
cific Art. Ruth Barnes, who has been the Curator of In-
do-Pacific Art since the department was established in 2010, 
describes Reynolds as an exceptionally supportive director, 
albeit one with high expectations. They worked closely to-
gether when the department recently decided to accept a 
large donation of Indonesian puppets, which, Barnes told 
me, “with one stroke makes the Yale Art Gallery the world’s 
leading center for Indonesian performance studies.” Barnes 
also noted that Reynolds expects his curators to work closely 
with donors and to accommodate their wishes. “He would 
land like a ton of bricks” on a curator who failed to do so, 
Barnes said. Although she is frustrated at times by ego-driv-
en donors, Barnes thinks Reynolds’s emphasis on patronage 
helps the Gallery stay relevant. 

All four exhibitions opening in March pay homage to 
Reynolds, three of them for his personal relationships with 
the artists. Pamela Franks was working in Joel Shapiro’s 
studio in the nineteen-nineties when Reynolds visited the 
sculptor for an exhibition, and she remembers his attentive 
interest in the artist and his craft. Reynolds spent hours in 
Shapiro’s studio and digging through storage to look at old 
work, beginning a friendship that decades later has brought 
Shapiro’s work to the Gallery. Now a curator of Modern 
and Contemporary Art at the Gallery, Franks is curating 
“Joel Shapiro: Plaster, Paper, Wood, and Wire,” which 
builds on the Shapiro exhibition Reynolds originally curat-
ed and includes sculptures the artist made in response to 
that earlier work. Franks values the Gallery’s focus on the 
primacy of artists, which she says is a key part of Reynolds’s 
legacy: his emphasis on “the creative impulse, the ideas, 
and the generative aspect of what artists do.” Besides Sha-
piro, there will also be exhibitions of wall drawings by Sol 
LeWitt, sculpture by Reynolds’s beloved grad-school men-
tor Manuel Neri, and photographs and other art of the ruins 
of Pompeii. 

eynolds’s commitment to making art available to a 
broad audience has led him to speak up when polit-
ical debates have questioned whether controversial 
artwork should be shown freely. In 1989, towards the end 
of his time directing the Washington Project for the Arts, 
Reynolds made a decisive move in a moment of national 
controversy. Afraid of losing federal funding, the Corcor-
an Gallery of Contemporary Art in D.C. had backed out 
of showing a Robert Mapplethorpe retrospective that con-
gressional Republicans were calling “lewd” and “indecent.” 
Reynolds led the WPA in providing a space for the show. 
Thirty years later, he still gets fired up about the “culture 
wars.” “That was the easiest decision,” he told me. Map-
plethorpe had died of AIDS earlier that year, and Reynolds 
still has a bone to pick with the politicians who wanted to 
censor the artwork for what he viewed as homophobic rea-
sons.

Now, Reynolds is speaking out against censorship from 
a different angle. In late January, when the National Gal-
lery of Art indefinitely postponed a Chuck Close exhibition 


--- Page 18 ---

 18
following allegations that the artist sexually harassed some 
of his models, Reynolds weighed in once again. Quoted in 
The New York Times as the leader of an institution that col-
lects Close’s work, Reynolds argued that the artwork should 
not be withheld from public view. He reflected that Picas-
so’s work is freely shown in spite of his deplorable histo-
ry with women. “If that goes too far,” Reynolds told me, 
“there’s a lot of stuff that’s going to be taken out of cultural 
discussion and display,” adding that he thinks things might 
be getting “a little bit out of control.” But Reynolds, who is 
a friend of Close’s, encouraged criticism of artists’ behavior 
and said he thinks it is important to situate their work in the 
context of their lives. 

On the eve of his retirement, Reynolds is bringing in a 
large gift of drawings from Sol LeWitt, another artist friend. 
Three floors above the teaser drawing in the Gallery’s lob-
by, graduate students study certificates to install “Sol Le-
Witt Wall Drawings: Expanding a Legacy,” an exhibition 
opening March 2. Reynolds asks one student, who has just 
added a very long graphite line to a grid covering one huge 
wall, why the work interests her. She loves the physicality 
of it, she tells our assembly of onlookers haltingly. It’s clear 
that she’s a bit shaken by the sudden audience: Reynolds 
has a habit of putting people on the spot like this, catching 
them unawares but giving them a flattering stage. He picks 
up when she stops talking, to sing praises of such serious 
student involvement in the Gallery. “He’s made 1,350 of 
these,” Reynolds marvels, “none of which look the same. 
He just keeps finding ways to innovate.” Reynolds asks an-
other assistant to read out the words of this wall’s certificate, 
for all to hear. 

— Ben Levin is a sophomore 
in Silliman College.



**Title: The Paston Treasure**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Paston Treasure     
  microcosm of the known world
February 15–May 27, 2018


**Title: The City Builder**
**Author: Robert Scaramuccia**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

New Haven is a pockmarked city, riddled with remind-
ers of an era when City Hall thought the only way 
to save it from economic peril was to tear out row 
houses and typewriter shops and replace them with beasts 
of concrete and steel. One of those beasts, the Knights of 
Columbus tower, looms over one such wound: an asphalt 
wasteland of parking lots, four-lane streets, and fenced-in 
parks left behind by twenty years of urban renewal. 

Richard Munday says it’s not all bad. He likes how the 
tower scoffs at the surrounding streets, its colossal brown pil-
lars refusing to perfectly nestle into the corner of Church 
Street and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. But he’s an 
urban architect, and urban architects typically prefer cities 
with fabric, their streets and sidewalks and structures all inter-
weaving into a cohesive whole. This area, between Union 
Station and Gateway Community College, definitely doesn’t 
fit that definition. It’s more like downtown’s frayed southern 
end. 

The Oak Street Connector freeway extends westward from 
the I-95, runs behind the Knights of Columbus tower, and 
feeds into the base of the former Alexion headquarters a few 
blocks away. Looking from the tower toward the Connector, 
it’s hard to remember that this blacktop sea used to be the 
Oak Street neighborhood, which, according to architectural 
historian Vincent Scully, was “one of the few [racially] inte-
grated enclaves in New Haven.” Unfortunately for the resi-
dents who ran its thriving flea markets and lived in its decay-
ing duplexes, Mayor Richard C. Lee (who served as mayor 
from 1954 to 1970) considered it a den of “whore houses and 
gin mills.”

During his tenure at City Hall, Lee buried Oak Street 
under paeans to the automobile age, like the Connector, the 
Knights of Columbus tower, and the New Haven Coliseum. 
A hockey stadium hidden under a four-story parking garage, 
the Coliseum was demolished in 2007, cheered on by hun-
dreds of New Haveners who thought sparkling new develop-
ments would follow. More than a decade later, however, the 
gash in the city’s fabric remains, stranding residents in the 
adjacent Hill neighborhood—including the descendants of 
Oak Street’s refugees—behind the Connector. 

If Munday and his partners get their way, that will soon 
change. Munday works for Newman Architects, a local firm 
that has already designed hundreds of mixed-income apart-
ments and fifty thousand square feet of retail a block over 
from the empty Coliseum site. Now, they’ve turned their 
eyes toward the parking lots and barren streets that mark the 
remains of Oak Street, with the goal of reincorporating this 
area into downtown. “The development of this area is con-
nected with extending the fabric that you see on that side 
of George Street, into this area, and then down to the train 
station,” Munday said. “Suddenly, this becomes not an edge, 
but a center.” That centering includes extending Orange 
Street across the Connector and into the Hill, linking it back 
to the central city. 

Newman Architects’ founder, Herbert Newman, has been 
trying to “knit New Haven’s urban areas together again” for 
longer than almost anyone else. He has shaped the city’s pub-
lic and commercial spaces over the last fifty years; the Oak 
Street revival could cement his reputation for reintroducing 
commerce and civic life to New Haven. Yet his past attempts 
to balance the interests of Yale, City Hall, and major property 
developers suggest that this project could further divide the 
city rather than putting its pieces back together. 

“W
e proposed—” Newman starts, then stops. 
He jolts up to snatch some plans off a shelf 
across the room, walking less like the eighty-
three-year-old he is and more like the thirty-something he 
was when he first opened this office in the nineteen-six-
ties—no nonsense, impatient to return to his point. Waning 
November light seeps in through slivers of glass cut into the 
brick wall, landing on foot-tall foam row houses, new floor 
plans for a burnt-out church, and a poster that asks, “Can a 
Public Library Renew Our Civil Society?” Before I can read 
its answer, Newman is back in his chair, plans on the table. 
“What we proposed,” he says, pausing for effect this time, 
“was that we move the city further east.”

By “city,” Newman means New Haven’s commercial core, 
defined by the Nine Squares. The north-south diamond they 
form has shaped the growth of New Haven, America’s first 
planned city, ever since colonial surveyor John Brockett cut 
them into the landscape in 1638. From his brick box of an 
office on the walkway between Morse College and Mory’s, 
Newman is trying to add a Tenth where the Coliseum once 
stood. 

Which sounds, well, ambitious—maybe even impossible. 
But not if you’re someone who has already designed, reno-
vated, or planned half the city, including Union Station, 
City Hall, and a magnet school in Wooster Square. Yale Law 
School, Jonathan Edwards College, most of Old Campus—
the list goes on, and on. This is a man who “sees cities as 
sort-of a tableau, a canvas,” as New Haven economic devel-
opment administrator Matthew Nemerson put it. Newman 
mentions this city in the same breath as “Teotihuacan outside 
of Mexico City, or Jerusalem, or Athens, or Corinth,” and 
over the last half-century, he has made it his masterwork. 
The Tenth Square would be his latest brushstroke. The 
Knights of Columbus tower and a parking lot the size of a 
hockey rink now define this part of town, which lies a block 
southeast of Bow Tie Cinemas and the Omni Hotel. New-
man thinks this area, roughly bounded by Union Station, the 
Ninth Square neighborhood, and the Church Street South 
housing projects, could become a colony of shops, restau-
rants, and apartments, all surrounding a new public square. 
He’s thinking on a scale not typically associated with archi-
tects, one at which individual buildings are more like bricks 
placed in service of a larger whole. “The city becomes the 
building,” Newman said later. “The city is the architecture.”

That sense of scale reigned supreme when Newman first 
trained as an architect. He spent his early childhood in 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
nineteen-thirties New York, a city dominated by a “master 
builder”—and Yale graduate—named Robert Moses who 
grafted major arteries like the Triborough Bridge and mod-
ernist behemoths like Lincoln Center onto the urban grid. 
By the time his family moved to Waterbury, Connecticut, 
four-year-old Newman was obsessed with sketching those 
structures. 

“This is a stretch, but if New Haven is Rome, then Water-
bury is Florence,” Newman said, remembering how he mar-
veled at the towns of the Naugatuck River Valley. Their grand 
city halls and railroad stations, built by men made rich by the 
Industrial Revolution, entranced him.

He enrolled in the Yale School of Architecture on the heels 
of Richard Lee’s 1954 election as mayor of New Haven. Lee 
would soon try his best Moses impersonation, razing “slums” 
with federal funds and replacing them with the Connector, 
the Chapel Square Mall, and the Elm Haven high-rises. Most 
city planners and urban architects welcomed these transfor-
mative projects—Newman’s professors were no different. 
Yale president A. Whitney Griswold commissioned renowned 
modernists like Eero Saarinen to design Ingalls Rink and 
Morse and Stiles residential colleges, while the University’s 
architecture professors praised the magnificence of marble 
cubes like the Beinecke Library. Newman’s teachers argued 
that the best buildings conquered their streets, proclaiming 
their uniqueness rather than fitting into a preexisting fabric. 
Newman learned those lessons on the fourth floor of one 
such building: Louis Kahn’s Yale University Art Gallery, 
where the architecture school used to be. Its entrance sits 
back from the street, perpendicular to and raised above the 
sidewalk. “That building had a profound effect upon me,” 
he said. “And, of course, Kahn was there as well.” Kahn’s 
experiments with “structure, mechanical systems, light, [and] 
space” amazed Newman. He learned to design and draw 
from the same men who were constructing “great cathedrals” 
all around him, testing how far they could go “with these 
aspirations to build to heaven.”

After graduating in 1959, Newman got a job with modern-
ist architect I. M. Pei, designer of the Louvre Pyramid and 
the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum. He 
commuted between New York and New Haven, where he’d 
started a family. “I did that by train, early in the morning 
and back late at night,” he said. “The train was a great place 
to sleep, but it was [also] a great place to work and read.” In 
1961, while Newman had all that time to read, a book came 
out that would fundamentally reshape how he—and the 
entire architectural field—thought of cities. 

The Death and Life of Great American Cities was written 
by a little-known Greenwich Village author, Jane Jacobs. 
She called her work an “attack on current city planning and 
rebuilding,” one that denounced the buildings Newman had 
been trained to build as cold, distant, and fundamentally 
anti-urban. She thought planners and city officials like Moses 
in New York and Lee in New Haven were tearing down what


**Title: The Yale Bubble**
**Author: Robert Scaramuccia**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It definitely wasn’t serving that role when Newman set up 
shop off Broadway in the nineteen-sixties. New Haven was 
struggling with poverty and crime, the fruits of urban renewal 
and deindustrialization. Yale had built most of the residential 
colleges in the thirties; its twelve gated courtyards, includ-
ing a few right across from Broadway, choked the connection 
between the campus and Dixwell. 

But by the nineteen-eighties, the city’s reputation had 
deteriorated to the point that Yale started to worry about 
admissions numbers. Administrators concluded that since 
the university could not close itself off from New Haven’s 
problems, they needed some kind of buffer zone between the 
campus and the city. So a new tactic arose: investing in prop-
erties adjacent to the university.

Broadway still had several thriving businesses in the nine-
teen-nineties, including the Yankee Doodle Coffee Shop and 
Cutler’s record shop. But, according to Newman, the relative 
lack of shoppers made the presence of panhandlers across the 
street from undergraduate housing more obvious. Students 
in the architecture school had been reimagining Broadway as 
part of their coursework for years. Yale took those ideas, and 
hired Newman to run with them. “It was Yale turning its face, 
rather than its back, to the city,” Newman said. “We were the 
instrument.”

His firm seemed the perfect team for the task, having been 
located just off Broadway for thirty years. When Newman 
was hired, you could still conceivably claim his offices were 
on the dividing line between college and city. The fact that 
Nemerson, the city’s economic development chief, could 
characterize the neighborhood today as “the epitome of 
Yale” speaks to how effectively Newman’s redesign rebranded 
the street. Widened brick sidewalks, narrowed roads, cast 
iron fences and lampposts, American elms that hid a central 
parking lot—with these modifications, Newman Architects 
facilitated the creation of “The Shops at Yale.” Sprucing up 
the street made it much easier for Yale to rent out Broad-
way properties it had bought up, which in turn brought more 
pedestrians to the area.

“It isn’t that there’s less panhandlers there now than 
there were in the nineteen-sixties and nineteen-seventies,” 
Newman said. “Many of them are the same people that I’ve 
known for fifty years on those streets.” He says the number of 
panhandlers, “fundamentally safe” people “trying to make a 
living,” has stayed the same, but the increase in shoppers has 
improved the street’s reputation. 

That may have truth to it. But the street isn’t a sort-of urban 
utopia, the kind of thing Jane Jacobs might hold up as a model 
of dense, integrated urban living. Shoppers from the suburbs, 
having parked in the elm-lined parking lot, don’t often stop 
to speak with the locals waiting under the newly painted bus 
shelter. And any panhandler would be hard-pressed to collect 
enough money to buy anything at most of the stores on the 
street, as Barbour, Lou Lou, and a dozen other “unique bou-
tique[s]” have replaced the diners and record shops. 

“That is a danger, no question about it,” Newman said 
about Broadway’s gentrification. “The university is in a 
unique position to be able to balance the aspirations of its 
real estate holdings with those of its students, and all of the 
citizens and people who live in New Haven.” It has failed so 
far, in the eyes of those who consider the street an extension 
of the “Yale bubble.”

Munday, the partner at Newman’s firm, pointed out that 
Broadway has always been a shopping street, and that “com-
merce is at the heart of cities.” And there’s an argument to 
be made for high-end shopping districts, whose properties 
can be taxed substantially to fund public services for strug-
gling areas. But a gentrified city street doesn’t quite live up 
to Newman’s inclusive vision. His brick sidewalks effectively 
claimed the street for Yale, making it less of a portal and more 
of a boundary.

His brick sidewalks 
effectively claimed the 
street for Yale, making it 
less of a portal and more 


Newman’s role in Yale’s conquering of Broadway 
seems almost like the payment of a debt, whether 
the architect intended it to be or not. The University 
not only gave him his degree, but also offered him his first 
job in a city he reveres. It invested $12.5 million in the Ninth 
Square redevelopment, which Newman says “wouldn’t have 
happened without Yale.” If Newman has his way, something 
similar could happen with the Tenth Square. 

“That’s an opportunity here,” Newman says, hitting the 
table in his office for emphasis. “Some people at Yale would 
argue that, ‘Well, the Coliseum site is a little far away’…I 
don’t believe that. New Haven is a small town. Each of these 
tendrils, they reach out and they call to each other.” 

The Tenth Square project has been mired in delays since 
2011, when Newman officially signed on to create a mas-
ter plan. The original plans for the site stretched across six 
city blocks, including a new community college on Church 
Street, residential, retail, and office space on the Knights of 
Columbus and Coliseum parking lots, and infill buildings 
on the other side of George Street. Newman’s designs called 
for a grand, tree-lined avenue parallel to George St., the kind 
of public street that “make[s] you proud of being a citizen of 
a city like New Haven, because you’re there with everybody 
else,” he said. 

Importantly for the Hill, the plans also included an 
extension of Orange Street over the Connector and into the 
detached neighborhood. It would become a path that con-
nected residents of Church Street South to the new civic 
hub, and downtown as a whole.  

Yet, in 2018, nothing has been built. The developer, Live-
WorkLearnPlay, has had trouble financing the project. Delay 
after delay has forced the firm to rein in its plans. Gateway 
Community College went up on Church Street in 2012, but it 
wasn’t designed by Newman. The Knights of Columbus have 
backed out of building anything on their lot. Most of the resi-
dents of Church Street South were relocated after the federal 
Department of Housing and Urban Development judged it 
uninhabitable. The Tenth Square now only includes the lot 
on which the Coliseum once stood. 

That lot is still big enough to host almost one-thousand 
apartments, along with thousands of square feet of retail 
space. But Newman has gone from his late seventies to his 
early eighties since signing onto the project. The Tenth 
Square could be the last floor he adds to the building that is 
his city, a final statement of what New Haven should look and 
feel like, of how its residents could interact with one another. 

And it’s hard to know what that statement will ultimately 
be. Newman is known—even loved—for helping rebuild 
New Haven after the ravages of urban renewal. Yet for all his 
adoration of Jane Jacobs’s sidewalks and storefronts, there’s 
evidence of a modernist streak left over from the days of Kahn 
and Moses and Lee, one that compels him toward the cre-
ation of modern-day “cathedrals” even as he acknowledges 
the failures of the old. 

For all his emphasis on inclusivity, his two largest proj-
ects have contributed to gentrification. This citizen-architect, 
earnestly trying to build the city for all, has been caught up 
in Yale’s incursions into nearby neighborhoods. Spaces like 
Broadway and the Ninth Square are well-designed, civic, and 
enjoyable, but often only if you make enough money. If the 
Tenth Square gets built, only to be filled with more “unique 
boutiques” and Barcades, then the philosophy of path, place, 
and portal will fall short of filling the holes created by urban 
renewal.
— Robert Scaramuccia is a junior 
in Trumbull College.


**Title: From a Dark House**
**Author: Dimitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 27**

p o e m
Dimitri Diagne
The sky keeps its service,
does not open. There is no sun
but no rain either. Dusk moves fast—
I do not see the shadows fade

Child of early night, I long to see you
Know this first of all: I will not hurt you
I am like a star, but less warm
There is no planet orbiting my center

and my planet has no star—
cast into the void, a silence takes hold
Thank you for still listening. I love you
but not without limit

The long-travelled sea, the meadow
empty in spring. We go through all of this
for what? A blue mountain
fixed on the horizon—a tree

that we think is tall, but is not so
when we approach it, moving nearer
to that mountain, which is in a storm
and on its slopes, has frozen snow

Yet when we walk, I feel at ease
The distance fades—into small ice canyons
air passes like a well-made road
with no dimensions, and no rival

as there is no second sun
in binary with our own. I hope that you
can see this. That you look up
at the eclectic sky and see one tone
what if trombones were animals
— Ruby Bilger is a senior 
in Branford College.


**Title: I Said to Dimitri**
**Author:  Hazal Özgür**

illustration  Hazal Özgür
— Dimitri Diagne is a senior 
in Berkeley College.



**Title: BUT IT’S YOU**
**Author: Rachel Calnek-Sugin**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
BUT	
IT’S
YOU
by Rachel 
Calnek-Sugin


**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

 29
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
I
f you were a potential employer or landlord, this is what 
you would learn about John Tejada from a quick inter-
net search: his age (40), his height (6’1”), his weight (260 
lbs), his race (black), his eyes (brown), his address (in Hart-
ford, Connecticut) how many scars he has (three: two on the 
knees, one on the ankle), his tattoos (the Superman logo on 
his right butt-cheek). You would also learn that he was con-
victed of sexual assault in the second degree in March 2014. 
This is information that John has to confirm or update every 
ninety days, when he gets his official letter in the mail. If he 
is late, state law enforcement will mark him “non-compliant” 
in bold, red type. You would find the headlines about John’s 
offense in tabloid-like papers like the Connecticut Post and 
the Cheshire Patch. You probably wouldn’t rent him an apart-
ment or give him a job.

You wouldn’t necessarily know that John was born in 
Brooklyn (the posh part) to a dentist and a judge, that he 
went to one of New York’s top public high schools, and that 
he completed a computer science degree at Notre Dame, 
where he was a nationally-ranked fencer. After graduating, 
he worked in administrative positions at Merrill Lynch, 
Lord and Taylor, and ESPN. These were the kinds of jobs 
that required him to wear a suit every day, and he liked that. 
You might find out that he coached high school fencing, first 
in New Jersey, then in Fairfield, CT. Along the way, he got 
married, had a baby, won state coach-of-the-year four times, 
became depressed, started fighting with his wife, and began 
an intimate relationship with one of the senior girls on the 
team. You would, almost certainly, learn that she was seven-
teen. John says that she came onto him and that they never 
actually had sex. What the statute for second degree assault 
reflects is that meaningful consent is impossible between an 
adult and a minor before the law. John doesn’t deny it: “I 
was a coach, in a position of power, absolutely…I know I did 
something wrong. I absolutely did. I know I hurt her.”  
It’s beside the point, but I like John. When he enters 
the Cedarhurst Café in New Haven, he is wearing a navy 
blue suit, a checkered shirt, a pocket square, and sunglasses 
perched atop his almost bald head. The suit surprises me: 
most of the people I’ve spoken with on the state sex-offender 
registry are unemployed, self-employed, or working at fast-
food restaurants. He saunters up to the counter and orders 
the “pumpkin spiced chai whatever it is” that is advertised 
on the chalkboard outside, which, when he comes to join 
me at the high table by the window, he says tastes like “warm 
pumpkin milk.” We agree that there are worse things. John 
has a soft, slow voice, which starts self-conscious, but grows 
self-assured as he gets deeper into his story.

Do our sex offender 
laws actually make 
communities safer?
illustrations julia hedges


 30
The offense occurred six years ago. The victim’s parents 
had discovered intimate texts with John on her cellphone and 
reported them to the school, which fired John as a coach. His 
then-wife, who had recently given birth to their second son, 
kicked him out, and he slept in cars, hotels, and at friends’ 
houses. His victim didn’t press charges until the end of 2013, 
when she was a freshman in college. According to John, she 
had a breakdown and her parents encouraged her to report 
him to law enforcement. He was arrested and sentenced to 
ten years with a suspended sentence after two, and ten years’ 
probation. 
Once in jail, John was placed in the medical wing on sui-
cide watch. Incarceration can be especially rough for those 
convicted of sex offenses, who he says are vilified within 
prisons more than any other group, but John weighed close 
to three hundred pounds and could bench 350, so nobody 
tried to fight him. After getting off suicide watch, he spent his 
time tutoring other inmates for the GED, and when he was 
released in 2016, he was looking forward to rebuilding his life.

But John had lost everything: his family, his job, his money, 
his car, his belongings. The first order of business was to buy 
clothes. His first set of probation stipulations prohibited him 
from going to a mall, or anywhere where teens congregate, 
so he stood around in his prison-discharge gym shorts, con-
templating all the small ways life would look different now, 
before heading to a Banana Republic.

Next on the list was housing. John says he was rejected 
from over a hundred apartments in Hartford—which isn’t 
unusual for individuals on the registry. State and federal hous-
ing subsidies explicitly deny eligibility to registered offenders. 
Private landlords are under no obligation to exclude people 
on the registry, but it doesn’t count as housing discrimination 
when they do. So John moved into a hotel. The Days Inn in 
Hartford is close enough to Bradley International Airport that 
he could hear the planes as they came and went. It was under 
construction at the time, which made the rooms cheaper. 
John describes it as the kind of place where kids would go 
after prom. He got to know the Indian family who owned it; 
they were friendly, and they would chat before he went out to 
the library in the mornings.

John arrived at the library at 9:25 a.m. so he could secure 
a computer when it opened at 9:30—the terms of his proba-
tion banned him from owning his own computer, and they 
required him to leave the library in the afternoons when 
school got out, because, like the mall, it was somewhere 
teens came to hang out. When he first got out of prison, the 
only children he was allowed to spend time with were his 
own. John says he applied to hundreds of jobs, and “a lot of 
people said no. Everybody said no. It was hell.” Eventually, 
somebody said yes, and he started working at a warehouse, 
preparing bulk food shipments to send to supermarkets. Then 
another yes, and he got a job with a local newspaper. He was 
promoted, he passed his polygraph, and his probation restric-
tions started to ease up. He found an apartment in Hartford 
through a sympathetic building manager who had served 
three years himself, and he moved out of the hotel. Things 
were looking up.

Then the paper fired him—journalism was so public and 
he was too much of a liability—and he was back to the job 
search. The offense would come up in different ways during 
interviews. Sometimes they would notice the gap in his work 
experience while he’d been incarcerated and would ask for 
an explanation. Sometimes they would inquire about a back-
ground check. Sometimes it was at the very end, when they 
asked if there was anything else they should know. “I got in 
trouble,” John would tell them. “A couple of years ago when 
I was running this fencing program I had an inappropriate 
relationship with a high school senior…it was a dark period 
of my life.” 
At Voya Financial, a personal finance company, his inter-
viewers had told him they didn’t think it would affect how he 
did the job, so they invited him back for an aptitude test. The 
HR person told him that he had gotten the first ten she had 
ever seen. He got an offer. “I was really excited,” he says, “I 
could wear suits again.” They did a background check, then 
sent him his paperwork. He set up his health insurance. Two 
weeks later, he got a call: they couldn’t hire him after all. 
“There’s no coming back from it,” he says, “You’re the mon-
ster.”

Now, John’s sons—three and six—are growing up without 
him. The little one is built “like a brick house,” the kind 
of kid, he says, who could “take your lunch money by just 
looking at you.” The older one is sweet; he takes care of his 
brother. John hasn’t seen his mother—who has been diag-
nosed with Alzheimer’s—in nearly six years. His ex-wife isn’t 
speaking to him. Neither are most of his friends: only two 
had come to visit him in prison, and his social life didn’t get 
much better after his release. He was banned from fencing. 
And making new friends is almost impossible: you can’t make 



**Title: The Punishment**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
John is unemployed and on probation. He spends his time working out and looking for work. He attended a career fair and an interview at Raymour & Flannigan. He reflects on his situation and questions the length of his punishment.


<br/>

In December 2017, the Connecticut Sentencing Commission proposed improvements to state policy regarding people convicted of sex offenses.  The commission investigated sentencing, risk assessment, registration requirements, and victim needs.  Thomas Ullmann hopes the state will take action to change sex offender laws nationwide.



U.S. state sex offender registries, created in 1994, were initially intended to be administrative, accessible only to law enforcement. The Jacob Wetterling Act, named after an abducted and murdered boy, mandated their creation.



Over nearly twenty-five years, these laws have become more punitive.  Congress passed several laws, all named for abused and murdered children, increasing registration time, broadening information, and making registries public.  The lack of registries for other crimes is highlighted.



The discrepancy between stranger-danger offenses informing registry laws and the more prevalent assaults by acquaintances is noted. RAINN statistics show that most victims know their perpetrators.  Ullmann argues that the registry is counterproductive to public safety.



Even Patty Wetterling, who lobbied for the registries, has become a critic, stating that anger drove the legislation. Ira Ellman points to a false statistic cited in a Supreme Court ruling regarding high recidivism rates, which is contradicted by studies showing rates between 2 and 5 percent.



The Sentencing Commission's interim report considers that these laws may not prevent recidivism and may do more harm than good.  The commission's draft proposal suggests switching from an offense-based to a risk-based registry, dividing offenders into low, moderate, and high-risk categories.



The proposal faces an uphill battle, despite some state supreme court cases declaring probation stipulations unconstitutional.  Drastically reducing the public registry would alleviate barriers to housing and employment. The registry encompasses a diverse range of offenses.



The Connecticut Sentencing Commission's proposal is described as a compromise, criticized by both offenders' families and victims' rights advocates.  Offenders' families feel it doesn't go far enough, while victims' advocates have mixed reactions.



Donna Palomba, a rape survivor, testified to the Sentencing Commission, urging them to remember the victim's experience.  She discusses the trauma of rape and the societal misconceptions about victim behavior.  Her perpetrator was identified through a DNA test eleven years later and later raped another underage girl.



Donna founded Jane Doe No More, an organization dedicated to improving societal perceptions of survivors. The organization runs programs to train first responders and help survivors share their stories.  Donna believes victim involvement in the legal process is crucial.



While Donna believes the sex offender registry is important, she also acknowledges its limitations and potential for reform, suggesting a less harsh approach for consensual relationships between teens.  She emphasizes the need for decisions based on sound information and research.



**Title: Scott's Story**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

Scott Schwartz, from a difficult childhood in the Bronx, describes his life leading up to an attempted rape.  He was an "all-American kid" at the University of Las Vegas but lost his job, had a rocky relationship, and drank excessively. One night, while drunk, he attempted to rape his neighbor.



In retrospect, Scott understands his actions as an attempt to control another person due to his own feelings of loss of control. He also acknowledges the sexual component, the desire for connection, even if fake.  The author reflects on her position as a journalist interviewing a perpetrator of sexual assault, and the pervasive realities of sexual objectification and assault faced by women.


**Title: The Registry**
**Author: Rachel Calnek-Sugin**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Research Center estimate that sixty-three percent of sexual 
assaults are never reported). I face green-eyed, well-spoken 
Scott across the table and think: you are a person, and you did 
a horrible, horrible thing.

The question of policy reform opens itself up to many 
more abstract questions. Is punishment the only real form 
of accountability? Is it possible to wade through the murk of 
shame and fear to have better conversations about sex and 
sexual violence? Do we believe that people can change?

My personal answers to these questions were tested on the 
morning of a Sentencing Commission hearing. Cindy Prizio, 
the founder and director of Connecticut for One Standard of 
Justice (CTOSJ), an organization that advocates for the rights 
of those on the registry called, had put me in touch with Vin-
nie, one of the guys she worked with. Vinnie offered to give 
me a ride to Hartford.  It was a generous offer: he lived in 
Waterbury and it would take him nearly three hours to swing 
by New Haven to pick me up and drop me off. I hesitated: 
getting into a car with somebody convicted of a sex offense 
seemed high on the list of things I’d been warned in girlhood 
not to do. But wasn’t I setting out to counter those fears and 
misconceptions? I accepted, thanked him, and agreed that 
we’d text about timing in the morning.

All I knew about Vinnie, besides the fact that he was on 
the registry, was that he worked at Stop and Shop, had a son, 
drove a pick-up truck, and laughed easily when we talked 
on the phone. I was sure, I told myself, that the ride would 
be just fine. But for peace of mind, I decided to look him 
up, hoping that he, like many people on the registry, would 
be a non-violent offender. As it turned out, Vinnie had been 
convicted of first degree assault in 2002. The appeal, which 
was struck down by the Connecticut Court of Appeals, was 
available online. I read the fifteen pages graphically describ-
ing how he’d raped his high school friend at their twentieth 
reunion. I felt physically ill. I couldn’t bring myself to get in 
a car with him. In the morning, I texted that I was feeling 
sick. “I’m sorry to hear that,” he wrote back. “Hope you feel 
better soon.” 

I’m sure that nothing bad would’ve happened had I driven 
to Hartford with Vinnie. He’d been convicted fifteen years 
before, and I knew that offenders who’d been on the registry 
for over ten years were extremely unlikely to be dangerous. 
But this tension between how we feel and what we rationally 
know is at the core of our misperceptions and our policies.

The question here isn’t exactly whether we forgive Scott 
and Vinnie and other violent offenders. As Hartford public 
defender Tejas Bhatt points out, there are only two choices: 
“Either we decide to give all these people life sentences or 
we figure out how to reintegrate them into our communities.” 
Scott has been out of prison for eleven years. The night he 
committed the offense was the last time he ever drank. His 
record since then has been clean in every way. But the regis-
try made him the target of harassment, made his job search 
at least as difficult as John’s, and plunged him into debt. He 
says inclusion on the registry is “still a sentence. It’s keeping 
me from living life, getting a job, making money.”

Scott and John think of themselves as the lucky ones: they 
both have homes, advanced degrees, and some hope for their 
futures. Other offenders slip more completely through the 
cracks. There’s a man in my neighborhood who, after doing 
research for this piece, I now recognize from the registry; 
I see him often in the late afternoons, collecting cans in a 
clear garbage bag. I try to make eye contact with him, but he 
keeps his head down. A man named Tim told me about his 
difficulty accessing welfare services after his release, because 
these services—like the free eye-care clinic he’d wanted to 
visit—were housed in churches, which probation prevented 
him from entering.  “I can’t see without these,” he says, jam-
ming his finger at the thin, rectangular, tortoiseshell glasses 
that sit prominently on his nose. “How can we expect people 
to be law abiding citizens if I can’t even get glasses?” A man 
who identified himself as “Bob” testified to the Sentencing 
Commission that “being a sex offender in Connecticut is a 
death sentence…I sit in my apartment or take long walks to 
Scott Schwartz at his parents’ home. 
Photo by Robbie Short


--- Page 35 ---

 35
FEBRUARY 2018
pass the days. With no hope what else can I do? What else 
could anyone do?”


E
very state has a sex offender registry—there are about 
861,500 people registered nationally—and from coast 
to coast, people are starting to talk about their scope, 
efficacy, and collateral consequences. Alissa Ackerman, a sex 
crimes policy expert at California State University, who is 
both a survivor of sexual violence and an advocate for pol-
icy change, believes in better alternatives. Like Bhatt and the 
folks at CTOSJ, she thinks that laws about registration and 
residency restrictions are counterproductive: “The public 
is so outraged that someone would commit this harm that 
they will stand beside them, even though research shows that 
these laws don’t make us any safer,” she says, then adds: “Do 
you want to feel safe or do you want to be safe?”  

Ackerman was raped when she was sixteen. She barely 
made it through high school and then dropped out of college 
after her first semester. She’d been a biology major, an aspir-
ing doctor, and a walk-on to the softball team on full schol-
arship, but by the time Thanksgiving rolled around she was 
drinking too much and spiraling out of control. At the time, 
she said, she thought of the man who raped her as a monster. 
But when she made it back to Florida State University and 
took her first class in human behavior, she started to wonder 
what had happened to him that would lead him to cause this 
sort of pain to another human being.

Instead of treating sex offenses as a criminal justice prob-
lem, we might look at them as a public health issue. Offend-
ers rarely have the opportunity to sit face to face with their 
victim so they can understand the repercussions of their 
actions. Ackerman is piloting what she calls a “vicarious 
restorative justice” program in California (as a survivor, not 
a researcher), where survivors sit down with perpetrators of 
other people’s sexual assaults. At this point, she has talked 
with over two hundred perpetrators: she says this allows her 
to be “kind and compassionate and also tough” and to “chal-
lenge them in ways their treatment providers can’t.” Once, 
she says, she assumed the position of a man who had served 
twenty years for a violent rape. She used her experience to 
say: “This is what you did to me.” By the end, they were both 
crying. “I realize I could have been your perpetrator and you 
could have been my victim,” she remembers him saying, 
“and I am so sorry for the harm that I have caused you.” 

Scott’s victim testified at his trial, which helped him in 
therapy, he says, because it made him understand the extent 
of the harm that he caused. When he heard her speak about 
nightmares, night sweats, panic attacks, and relationship 
problems, he thought: I did that. He thought: How could you 
trust somebody if someone came in the night?  “I know I 
affected you in all these ways,” he wrote in an unsent letter-
to-the-victim that was part of his therapy program. “If I could 
take it back, I would.” 


--- Page 36 ---

 36
C
indy Prizio, the director of CTOSJ, drives me to the 
First Congregational Church in Guilford, where we 
set up for a screening of Untouchable, a documen-
tary about people on the registry that tries to capture perspec-
tives of both victims and perpetrators. In 2015, one of Cindy’s 
close family members was convicted of sexual assault, lead-
ing to his incarceration and registration. That was when she 
started to learn about the world of sex offender laws and threw 
herself into the advocacy that might be able to change them. 
Her cause is unpopular both in policy circles and in public 
imagination. “You’ve got the ugliest baby in the orphanage,” 
Cindy remembers someone saying to her. But she’s fighting 
for that baby with everything she’s got.

CTOSJ has been holding meetings, doing outreach, and 
rallying supporters to testify at hearings, but this screening is 
their first ever public event. By 
the time we start, about twen-
ty-five people—some support-
ers of the organization, some 
Guilford church-goers—have 
filtered in.   

After the movie, Reverend 
Ginger opens up the discus-
sion. At first, everyone is more 
or less in agreement: Bhatt, 
the public defender, calls the 
laws “out of hand” and says 
he doesn’t “know what we get 
from putting people on a pub-
lic registry.”  Vivien Blackford, 
from the Sentencing Commis-
sion, says that these require-
ments couldn’t exist “if people 
thought of sex offenders as 
human beings.” A couple of 
men on the registry weigh in 
with their experiences. We talk 
about the difficulty of finding 
employment and securing housing, the absurdity the stan-
dard conditions of probation, like not being allowed to use a 
computer, and the mandatory fees for treatment, polygraphs, 
and monitoring software that often plunge struggling ex-of-
fenders into debt.

Then Cindy says that victims have too much power in 
the legal proceedings in the state of Connecticut, and that 
is when—as she will refer to the discussion in the car on our 
way back—things start to get “vigorous.” Community mem-
bers fire back. Bhatt says legislation that doesn’t take the 
victim’s perspective into account won’t win, and it won’t be 
right. A woman named Karen, who is both a survivor of sex-
ual violence and an advocate for a family member on the reg-
istry, agrees with him. Suddenly everyone is picking a side. 
Cindy’s leg is trembling and Maria—who has a son on the 
registry—is shaking her fist. Reverend Ginger tries to calm 
things down by speaking over the commotion: “Those on the 
registry and those who have been abused, both have had their 
lives ruined.”

J
ohn says that everyone has their “but it’s you” moment. 
For him, it was at his old friend Caroline’s house. Her 
ten-year-old daughter was climbing all over his broad 
shoulders, as she had all her life. “Caro,” John said, turning 
to her, “What would you do if you didn’t know me, and you 
heard someone like me moved in next door?” 

She said she would look into it, that she would want to 
know what the situation was. 

“Caro, really?” John asked, grinning. “You’re telling me 
you wouldn’t be there with the pitchforks trying to burn my 
house down?”

“But it’s you,” she said.

Perpetrators of sexual vio-
lence are our coaches and 
neighbors and friends from 
high school. They are our 
sons and our boyfriends and 
our childhood playmates. We 
might be the victims of their 
assaults, or someone we love 
might be, or someone we 
know, or someone we’ve never 
met. The moment we recog-
nize that they are our people 
is when we start to see them 
as people. 

I think if I had gotten in 
the car with Vinnie, we would 
have had a good conversation. 
We might’ve cracked jokes. I 
might have liked him. I might 
have 
thought 
about 
how 
much time had passed since 
his offense, or that people can change, or that I almost always 
believe in second chances. I probably would’ve felt the futil-
ity and the injustice of the registry system as I learned about 
his obstacles to community reintegration after his release 
from prison. And all the while I would have hated that he 
raped somebody, and hated that sexual violence happens.  Every so often, there would be a lapse in conversation, and I 
would look at his face or out the window, and we would con-
tinue along the highway, towards Hartford, and the hearing, 
and hopefully, something better.
— Rachel Calnek-Sugin is a junior 
in Silliman College.

When he heard her 
speak about night-
mares, night sweats, 
panic attacks, and 
relationship 
problems, he thought: 
I did that.



**Title: Mane Man**
**Author: William Reid**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
One morning in January, Joe Moscato and I shook 
hands for the first time. Five minutes later, he was 
drawing on my face.  “It’s all about having an eye to 
see where things belong,” he said, tilting my chin with one 
hand as he added an inch to my sideburns with a black eye 
pencil. Once he’d finished shading, Joe gestured along my 
cheekbone to show how a longer cut would accentuate my 
features. “It’s all about working with what you’ve got.”

I had to admit: I looked chiseled. 

Joe smiled over my shoulder into the salon mirror. His 
own hair, swept tall on top and buzzed thin on the sides, 
made his already long face seem longer. His round cheeks 
reddened as he smiled: a cherub with a pompadour. Joe is 
65. He was born at Yale-New Haven Hospital before they 
called it that. For nearly five decades, he’s manicured mops 
and manes from all over Connecticut. He cuts men and 
women. “Hair doesn’t have a sex,” he said. “Shake it in a 
bag. It’s still hair.” 

But Joe isn’t just a hairdresser. He’s the most famous New 
Havener you’ve never heard of. Some clients call him the 
Mayor. 

In 2007, Joe joined the Mane Room at the Omni Hotel on 
Temple Street, where he’s found a devoted following among 
boatloads of Yalies. That’s not just a figure of speech: he cuts 
hair for most of the heavyweight crew team. Bojan Dosljak 
’19 recommended him in the team’s group chat. Bojan has 
gone to Joe since his sophomore year. They have a pretty 
casual relationship, Bojan said, meeting once a month for a 
trim. But when Bojan, who’s from Serbia, had nowhere to go 
for Thanksgiving dinner, Joe invited him to his family’s gathering. “He’s always talking about his cooking,” Bojan said. “It 
was a really nice gesture.” 

Jonathan Green, a VP of Finance at the Yale-China Association, schedules his haircuts six months in advance. If you 
move a lot, he said, “the two most nerve-racking things are 
finding a dentist and a hairdresser.” When he moved to New 
Haven in 2011, he had to find both. Luckily, Joe was easy to 
find. Jonathan had moved into an apartment across the street 
from the salon. One day he walked in off the street and asked 
for an appointment. “Joe overhears, and he comes around 
the corner and says, ‘I cut your hair. Make the appointment 
with me,’” Jonathan recalled. “I loved it.” Since then, “I 
have not cheated on Joe once,” he said. “I have an enormous 
amount of trust in him. It’s a great relationship to have with 
a professional.” 

Joseph Giammittorio, who graduated from Yale in 2016, 
learned about Joe from his Big Sib in Jonathan Edwards. 
The first time they met, Joseph thought, “This man is New 
Haven. This guy can really go back and forth between all 
different kinds of communities.” “Plus,” Joseph said, “he’s got 
this Italian flair.” They met once a month, from freshman fall 
to senior spring. The appointments were “as much for the 
friendship as for the haircut.” 

A bell chimed at 10 a.m. as Joe’s first appointment of the 
day entered the salon, which smelled like a vanilla 
candle. She went straight to the salon seat next to 
mine. Joe tossed a black salon cape over her and started to 
comb out her short, grey-blonde hair. “How long have we 
known each other?”

Nancy thought about it. “About ten years.”

“More! I first cut your hair in 2004, 2005.” He turned to 
me. “When Nancy first came to me, she was an accountant.” 
She’d gone from accounting into real estate. Then she started 
a business with her son. (“He was a realtor for a hot second,” 
she expounded.) Somewhere along the way, her husband 
passed, Joe added. Throughout the synopsis, Nancy wore a 
flat grin, like she’s not used to having someone remember 
her story in such detail. “Now she’s a realtor herself!” Joe 
concluded. “How would you describe me?”

“Oh, you’re an absolute pro,” she said.

“She’s cheated on me, you know.”

“It’s true,” she grinned. “But nobody does a haircut like 
Joe.”

Joe went to get the paste for her hair treatment. She 




**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: William Reid**
**Page number(s): 38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 38
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
checked to make sure he was out of earshot, then leaned in, 
like she was telling a bawdy secret: “Actually, I was a secre-
tary. Not an accountant.” She winked. “But don’t tell him 
that.”


I 
first heard of Joe from Matteo Rosati, my friend and 
former roommate. Matteo is from Rome. In Italian, his 
surname means of a pink hue. Given his propensity to 
sunburn, the description is accurate. The fall of Matteo’s 
freshman year, his mother Federica came to New Haven for 
move-in. While Matteo was at orientation, she found herself 
with nothing to do. So she went to the hairdresser. As she 
waited for an appointment, she overheard a Yale student ask 
for Joe Moscato. “Students come here?” she wondered. Then 
she thought of Matteo. She asked for Joe too. 
“From that moment, I don’t know why…he was so open, 
I told him my life story. No—I’m kidding. But I told him a 
lot,” she said over the phone from Rome. “I was a bit tragic.”


Joe remembered her crying in the salon chair. (“Don’t say 
crying,” he told me, eyeing my scribbles appraisingly. “Say 
she was upset. She was upset her seventeen-year-old son was 
leaving for school in America.”) “So I said to her in Italian, 
‘Don’t worry. I’ll take care of him.’” (Matteo says Joe’s Italian 
sounds a little old-fashioned, like a relic of his parents’ emi-
gration to America from Sicily and Naples in the early 1900s.) 
At first, Federica didn’t believe him. “I really thought he saw 
a desperate woman and was only being kind,” she said. But 
she gave him Matteo’s number.


Joe followed through. He stored Matteo’s books and clothes 
for the summer, had him over for dinner, and took him to buy 
a bike. When Matteo later fell off that bike and shattered his 
ankle, Joe was the third person he called, after his roommates 
and 911. And when Federica came to New Haven to help 
Matteo recover, Joe cooked for them. “I really like this idea a 
lot,” was the first thing she told me on the phone from Rome. 
“Writing an article about Joe. He deserves it.”


J
oe finished applying the treatment to Nancy’s hair, held 
up by clips above her scalp like a tulip bud. He set a 
timer, got her a magazine, and sat down to wait. I asked 
what he thinks makes him successful. “To be in this business, 
you have to a) like people, and b) like the work,” he says. “It’s 
a relationship. My clients become part of my family.”
— William Reid is a junior 
in Pierson College.



**Fellowship in Journalism**
**Author: Poynter**
**Page number(s): 39**

Learn from some of 
the most influential 
journalists in the world.
Sign up now for the Poynter newsletter:
poynter.yale.edu


**Undergraduate Judaic Studies Conference**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Undergraduate  
Judaic Studies  
Conference
February 18, 2018
Bingham Hall
Comparative Literature Library
Yale University
schedule
 
9:00–9:30 am Breakfast 
 
9:30–9:45 am Welcome and Opening Remarks 
 
9:45–11:00 am Session 1: Reimagining Liturgy  
 
  European Domestic Piety in a Jewish Key: 
The Birth and Spread of the Custom to Sing 
Zemirot around the Shabbat Table
 
  
 Albert Kohn List College, Columbia 
University 
 
  Jewish Women and Personal Prayer in 
Nineteenth Century Europe
 
  
Hannah Srour McGill University 
 
  Music as a Reflection of the Soul: Leonard 
Bernstein and Hashkiveinu
 
  
 Pamela Brenner Barnard College, Columbia 
 
11:00–11:15 am Break 
 11:15 am–12:30 pm  Session 2: Jews in Their Political Contexts 
 
  The Popes and the Jews of Rome: Attempts at 
Converting Roman Jews during the Catholic 
Counter-Reformation
 
  
 Gidon Halbfinger Columbia University
 
  The Convergence of Whiteness, Jewishness, 
and Xenophobia: An Examination of the  
Leo Frank Case
 
  
 Aryeh Roberts University of Maryland 
 
  Past and Present Realities of the Sephardic 
Mystique
 
  
Julia Kahn Yale University 
 
12:30–2:00 pm Lunch 
 
2:00–3:15 pm  Session 3: Traditional Texts, New 
Interpretations 
 
  Rainmaker: Power, Presumption, and 
Precipitation in the Stories of Honi the  
Circle-Maker
 
  
 Adina Goldman  Northwestern University
 
  God Intended it for Good: Contrasting 
Conceptions of Divine Providence in the 
Biblical and Quranic Joseph Stories and 
Possible Implications for the Compositional 
History of Sura 12
 
  
Theo Motzkin Harvard University 
 
   ‘Beautifully Did Beruriah Rule:’ Beruriah as 
Moral Expert in the Talmud Bavli
 
  
Avigayil Halpern  Yale University  
 
3:15–3:30 pm Break 
 
3:30–4:45 pm  Session 4: Encountering the 20th Century 
 
  My Yiddisha Mammy: New York Jews and 
Blackface in the Early Twentieth Century
 
  
 Helyn Steppa  Barnard College,  
Columbia University
 
  Shaul Shochet’s Tiferet Yedidya: A Case Study 
in Early American Jewish Responsa
 
  
Ezra Cohen Brandeis University 
 
  Re-Union of Tongues: The Two Yiddish 
Translations of Abramovich’s ‘Shem un Yefes  
in a Vagon’
 
  
 Corbin Allardice University of Chicago 
 
4:45–5:00 Break 
 
5:00–6:00  Keynote Address
 
  Between Ancestry and Belief: ‘Judaism’ and 
‘Hinduism’ in the Nineteenth-Century
 
  
 Professor Leora Batnitzky Professor of 
Jewish Studies and Chair, Department  
of Religion, Princeton University  
 
6:30 pm  Dinner for Conference Presenters  
and Organizers


Professor Leora Batnitzky is the 
Ronald O. Perelman Professor of Jewish 
Studies and Chair of the Department 
of Religion at Princeton University. 
Her teaching and research interests 
include philosophy of religion, modern 
Jewish thought, hermeneutics, and 
contemporary legal and political the-
ory. In 2002 she received Princeton’s 
President’s Award for Distinguished 
Teaching. She is the author of Idolatry 
and Representation: The Philosophy of Franz Rosenzweig 
Reconsidered (Princeton, 2000), Leo Strauss and Emmanuel 
Levinas: Philosophy and the Politics of Revelation (Cambridge, 
2006), and How Judaism Became a Religion: An Introduction 
to Modern Jewish Thought (Princeton, 2011). Her current book 
project, tentatively titled “Conversion Before the Law: How 
Religion and Law Shape Each Other in the Modern World,” 
focuses on a number of contemporary legal cases concerning 
religious conversion in the U.S., Great Britain, Israel, and India. 
She is co-editor, with Ilana Pardes, of The Book of Job: Aes-
thetics, Ethics and Hermeneutics (de Gruyter, 2014) as well 
as co-editor, with Yonatan Brafman, of an anthology Jewish 
Legal Theories, for the Brandeis Library of Modern Jewish 
Thought. She is co-editing Institutionalizing Rights and Re-
ligion, with Hanoch Dagan, to be published by Cambridge 
University Press and is also co-editor, with Ra’anan Boustan, 
of the journal Jewish Studies Quarterly.


**Leora Batnitzky**

Leora Batnitzky
Between Ancestry and Belief: 
‘Judaism’ and ‘Hinduism’  
in the Nineteenth-Century
keynote speaker
Please RSVP to: 
undergraduatejudaicstudies@gmail.com
undergradjudaicsconference.com

