Publication date: MAY 2021
Volume: 54
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-In-Chief: Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz
- Executive Editor: Jack Delaney
- Managing Editor: Eli Mennerick
- Associate Editors: Nicole Dirks, Jesse Goodman, Rose Horowitch, Caroleine James, Noa Rosinplotz, Dereen Shirnekhi, Will Sutherland, JD Wright, Katherine Yao
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Madison Hahamy
- Copy Editors: Meg Buzbee, Anna Fleming, Ella Goldblum, Kaylee Walsh
- Creative Director: Annli Nakayama
- Design Editors: Laura Padilla Castellanos, Ally Soong, Ada Griffin
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- cover - SEX WORK IN NEW HAVEN
- WHEN YALE HARBORED A NAZI - Zachary Groz
- LEFT WING AT YALE LAW - Jack McCordick
- OUT OF DOORS - Laura Glesby
- SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS - Dereen Shirnekhi
- A WELCOME PATCH OF GREEN - Rose Horowitch
- BEAUTY AND THE ‘KEETS - Elliot Lewis
- BÁT QUÁI (BAGUA MIRROR) - Jesse Goodman
- MOT - John Nguyen
- THE FARMINGTON CANAL - Eli Mennerick
- EDGEWOOD AND EDGERTON PARKS - Alexandra Galloway
- EAST HADDAM FLOODS, SEPTEMBER 2021 - Nicole Dirks
- ON THE ROOF OF WATSON - Aaron Magloire
- SALOVEY'S GARDEN - Nanki Chugh


**Title: SEX WORK IN NEW HAVEN**
**Author:  (Not listed)**
**Page number(s): 4**


Facing stigma and criminalization, six 
women find community at the Sex 
Workers and Allies Network.


**Title: WHEN YALE HARBORED A NAZI**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 6**


Vladimir Sokolov was a beloved Russian 
professor at Yale. Then his past caught 
up with him.


**Title: LEFT WING AT YALE LAW**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 8**


An emerging legal movement challenges 
a long-held consensus.


**Title: OUT OF DOORS**
**Author: Laura Glesby**
**Page number(s): 29**


Many New Haven residents choose to risk it 
on the streets rather than sleep in shelters.



**Title: SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS**
**Author: Dereen Shirnekhi**
**Page number(s): 12**


[This appears to be a title/subheading, not a full article on this page]


**Title: A WELCOME PATCH OF GREEN**
**Author: Rose Horowitch**




**Title: BEAUTY AND THE ‘KEETS**
**Author: Elliot Lewis**
**Page number(s): 37**




**Title: BÁT QUÁI (BAGUA MIRROR)**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 30**




**Title: MOT**
**Author: John Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 38**




**Title: THE FARMINGTON CANAL**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 17**




**Title: EDGEWOOD AND EDGERTON PARKS**
**Author: Alexandra Galloway**




**Title: EAST HADDAM FLOODS, SEPTEMBER 2021**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 42**




**Title: ON THE ROOF OF WATSON**
**Author: Aaron Magloire**
**Page number(s): 43**




**Title: SALOVEY'S GARDEN**
**Author: Nanki Chugh**





**Title: SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS**
**Author: ROSE HOROWITCH**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
P
rofessor Laurie Santos stands before a dark 
background, wearing a simple blue shirt 
and black jacket. She speaks deliberately and 
warmly—almost like a grade school teacher—as she 
traces celebrity’s etymology from the ancient Greeks’ 
devotion to their constellary gods on Mount Olym­
pus to cosmopolitan stars in the modern era. Then a 
giant bottle of Chanel Nº5 fills the screen.
The fashion house had selected 
the Yale psychology professor 
for its ad campaign celebrat­
ing the 100th anniversary 
of the creation of Chanel 
Nº5, the scent that Coco 
Chanel said smelled “like 
a woman, not like a 
rose.” Chanel was rec­
ognizing a new sort of 
celebrity—a 
nontradi­
tional, more egalitarian 
one exemplified by writ­
ers and journalists. In 
the video, Santos, who 
both studies celebrity 
and has become famous 
herself, suggests that a 
fascination with celebrity 
is intertwined with human DNA—it has always been 
present, albeit in different forms. However, the rise 
of social media, she notes, has altered the way people 
relate to celebrities: famous people are more acces­
sible to their fans, and ordinary people can become 
famous overnight.
“The famous people are becoming not so different 
from us and the everyday regular people are becom­
ing famous,” Santos said at the end of the commer­
cial. “So I think this is a real revolution in the way 
celebrity is playing out in our culture right now.”
Santos’ research centers on animal psychology. 
But she is well-known beyond academic circles for 
her class titled “Psychology and the Good Life,” the 
most popular course ever offered at Yale. In 2018, 
Santos began teaching the course online under the 
title “The Science of Well Being.” In the three years 
since, more than three million people have taken the 
class.
In 2019, Santos expanded her audience and 
launched The Happiness Lab Podcast, 
which has more than thirty-five mil­
lion downloads. In recognition 
of her status, she was named 
TIME’s “Leading Campus 
Celebrity.” Since launching 
the podcast, she’s been rec­
ognized in the airport and 
while completing curb­
side pickup at Target.
“That feels really weird, 
but it’s [only] a few peo­
ple,” Santos said. “It’s not 
like I’m Beyoncé.”
Santos told me that she 
does not consider her­
self “fashion commercial 
material.” She remained 
adamant that she does not fit into the category of 
academic celebrity and said she doesn’t know of 
many academics who have become famous for their 
work. She seemed to suggest that fame is outside of 
the realm of academia and scholarship—an idea that 
might once have been true but which researchers 
now call into question.
Though Santos said she does not see herself as 
a celebrity, she is part of an emerging trend that 
Oxford University researcher Peter William Walsh 
has dubbed “celebrity academics.” He provided the 
examples of Judith Butler and Anthony Giddens. 
Academic celebrities, he explained, differ from schol­


--- Page 5 ---

SEPTEMBER 2021
 5
ars who are merely respected in their field because of 
the adulation and emotional attraction—and some­
times jealousy and derision—they inspire among 
their peers.
Through the podcast, Walsh said Santos might 
even have ascended to the status of a public intel­
lectual—someone who is recognizable to the average 
educated person, like Cornel West or Stephen Hawk­
ing. By contrast, a celebrity academic is known by 
nearly everyone in their field but would be unrecog­
nizable to most members of broader society.
Social media blurs the distinctions between the two 
groups, allowing academics to reach a far broader 
audience. It also allows scholars to display their per­
sonalities beyond their research—what Walsh called 
the “veridical self.” For example, Tufts University 
Professor Daniel Drezner and University of Man­
chester Professor Brian Cox have each launched suc­
cessful Twitter accounts that share both research and 
personal anecdotes. This access facilitates a subjective 
and emotional relationship between the celebrity and 
their supporters, Walsh added.
When I called Walsh over Zoom, I interrupted his 
listening to Santos’ podcast—a discussion of Aristo­
tle’s eudaimonia, from The Nicomachean Ethics. San­
tos is unusual in her ability to convey such compli­
cated ideas clearly, Walsh said. “She speaks so well,” 
he said. “There’s something about her personality, 
about the relationship that I form with that person­
ality by listening to her podcast, that makes me like 
her and that makes me give her my attention, which 
feeds into her celebrity status.”
In Walsh’s telling, the phenomenon of celebrity 
in academia arose in the nineteen-seventies and 
nineteen-eighties, when mass media began allowing 
people to learn about the lives of researchers beyond 
their scholarly output. Since then, celebrity in aca­
demia has surged ahead, with the most famous schol­
ars, including Richard Dawkins and Michael Porter, 
amassing thousands of Twitter followers and massive 
citation counts on their papers. 
Becoming famous usually confers an advantage 
upon scholars. Academia is generally a cutthroat 
industry, with pressure to rapidly accrue funding 
and publish to gain a competitive edge in the tenure 
process, Walsh told me. Celebrated academics can be 
released from teaching engagements to have more 
time for research and are much more likely to receive 
tenure or job opportunities, he said. Journal editors 
likely know their research areas and can tell who the 
author is, meaning their work is much more likely to 
be published, he added.
Walsh also noted that celebrity in academia is 
often accused of lowering the quality of scholarly 
output. Some argue that academic celebrities spend 
time on speaking engagements instead of research, 
that their work is published in part because of their 
status, and that journals do not subject famous aca­
demics to standard reviewing procedures. On the 
other hand, celebrity academics can communicate 
their research much more widely than most scholars; 
Santos, for example, shares her research with people 
who might not otherwise have access to academic 
articles or university courses.
Still, the idea that celebrity is at play in scholarship 
often receives resistance from members of the pro­
fession because it seems antithetical to the value of 
reason in academia, Walsh said.
“That kind of stuff is frivolous…Celebrity is the 
froth of modern life. Academia is supposed to be the 
substance. It’s truth. It’s beauty,” Walsh said. 
He argued that the decreased barriers to academic 
fame—facilitated by social media’s rise—would lead 
not to democratization but to further inequity among 
scholars. Although more people have the potential 
to reach celebrity status, only a few will do so—and 
only they will reap the benefits of fame.
“It’s still on this upward trajectory, we’re going 
to see increasing differences, more inequality within 
academia,” Walsh said. “Inequality in status, in pay, 
in fame, in citation count, in Twitter followers—
we’re going to see that continue to grow.”
As Santos told it in the Chanel commercial, celeb­
rity seemed limitless and open to all. She spoke of the 
democratization of celebrity with optimism—now, 
she said, people truly feel they can become a celeb­
rity, or at least become friends with one. But as San­
tos finished sharing her message, and her image gave 
way to a $220 bottle of perfume, it was hard to be so 
optimistic. 
Rose Horowitch is a junior in Davenport College and 
an Associate Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: A Welcome Patch of Green**
**Author: ELLIOT LEWIS**
**Page number(s): 6**

 6
T
he garden had been used as a dumping 
ground. Raised beds strangled by overgrown 
weeds, trash strewn about, wet slabs of 
mushroom-speckled wood perfuming the area with 
a mildewy odor. It was our job—myself and a crew 
of New Haven residents—to revitalize this less-than-
one-acre plot on Adeline Street, run by Integrated 
Refugee & Immigrant Services (IRIS). It was March 
of 2021, and the weather was unseasonably warm. I 
spent hours pruning tree branches with a saw to let 
crops catch sunlight; shoveling hot woodchips into 
wheelbarrows; yanking weeds from the soil, then 
depositing them into a white bucket. Occasionally I’d 
find a used Band-Aid or the plastic lining of a Doritos 
bag, a reminder that I was not in a pastoral country­
side but in New Haven, that I was flanked not by 
farms and forests but by tire shops and gas stations. 
Even during the rehabilitation process, though, on a 
street lined with blue-grey houses, the garden was a 
welcome patch of green.
Karen Grossi has spent her life tending to such 
patches of green. She started gardening at age four, 
and for a few years worked as a small-scale organic 
farmer in Holyoke, MA. 
During the pandemic, while volunteering as a 
food delivery driver for the Semilla Collective (an 
organization that distributes food among Latinx 
New Haveners), Grossi watched community hun­
ger escalate in real time. She knew she could be 
doing more. In March of 2020, Grossi and a group 
of acquaintances began planting crops in unused 
garden plots across the city, including the Adeline 
Street garden. The “ad hoc group,” as Grossi calls 
it—believing the term “organization” too official for 
the rotating cabal of five to twelve gardeners—took 
on the moniker Mutual Aid Growers.
Some of the empty garden spaces were aban­
doned because of the pandemic; others, like the 
Adeline Street garden, were in complete disarray. 
Volunteers also grew in their personal gardens; Tina 
Dodge, another leader of the organization, built two 
new beds in her backyard to accommodate extra 
seedlings. Over the course of the summer of 2020, 
Mutual Aid Growers grew more than 500 pounds of 
produce, all of which went to hungry New Haven 
families. 
Mutual Aid Growers is not the only New Haven 
organization using horticulture to fight hunger. 
With well over fifty community gardens, New 
Haven has one of the highest rates of community 
gardens per capita of any city in the United States. 
Most of these gardens are run by Gather New Haven. 
Eliza Caldwell, the community garden manager for 
Gather, explained to me, “The goal is to get food 
close to people’s houses, so they don’t have to go 
somewhere and get it.” 
But when the pandemic hit, Gather was caught 
off guard. The group had only formed two months 
before mass closures and quarantine, through a 
merger of the New Haven Land Trust and New 
Haven Farms in January 2020. Its staff was mostly 
new and therefore unprepared for the administra­
tive nightmare of COVID-19. “There was so much 
change at that time that it feels like we were just 
trying to navigate how to do things,” Caldwell said. 
“And I feel pretty bad saying that because, we should 
[have] been, I don’t know, more active, I suppose.”
However, Gather was certainly not inactive 
during the early pandemic. Individual gardeners 
like Mary-Ann Moran took it upon themselves to 
improve food accessibility in their local communi­
ties. Moran, who serves as the community garden 
manager for the gardens in Fair Haven, on the city’s 
east side, has worked throughout the pandemic to 
make fresh produce available in libraries, substa­
tions, and schools across her community—free of 
charge, available to be picked up by anyone in need.
Still, it’s easy to understand why Caldwell felt 
that Gather should have done more: after national 
hunger rates reached a twenty-year low in 2019, 
they spiked in 2020. In New Haven, food insecurity 
rates hit 16.2 percent, the highest of any county in 
Connecticut, marking a 33.5 percent increase since 



**Title: Mutual Aid Growers**
**Author: Elliot Lewis**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2021
 7
2018. The pandemic exposed and exacerbated an 
existing hunger crisis in New Haven, as rising rates 
of poverty and unemployment resulted in smaller 
portions and more skipped meals.


To Grossi, although charities like Gather have a 
necessary role to play in fighting the crisis of food 
insecurity, mutual aid often has advantages over 
these more bureaucratic organizations. “Mutual 
aid is folks who are experiencing the unmet need 
working together to get those needs met,” she said. 
“[Charities] are constrained by red tape and bureau­
cracies”—to get food from charities, a person often 
needs to fill out federally mandated paperwork and 
supply an ID. “It's also very demoralizing to be on 
that end of having to prove that you both need this 
food and that you're worthy of it.”


Yet, without larger organizations like the Semilla 
Collective, which had the infrastructure necessary 
for distribution, Mutual Aid Growers would have 
had difficulty delivering their produce. As well, 
charities like Gather and IRIS provided Mutual Aid 
Growers with the necessary garden space for their 
seedlings. These organizations—both mutual aid 
and charity—work best when they work together.


In the future, Grossi, Dodge, and the rest of their 
team hope to continue providing food for those 
in need in New Haven. However, there are cur­
rently limits to how much this group can provide. 
Dodge told me, “Our group is small. We need a lot 
more volunteers. We need donations of seedlings, 
which we've been pretty lucky getting. But we 
could also use fertilizer. We could also use tomato 
cages.” Mutual Aid Growers has recently established 
a GoFundMe to bolster their network and fund­
ing. At the moment, most expenses come out of the 
pockets of volunteers. And a larger network means 
more backyards, more gardens, and more produce. 
 Of course, it is difficult to provide food for entire 
communities on single acre plots that do not sur­
vive the winter. But the gardens are a start. They 
are food sources, yes, but they are also a source of 
recreation, empowerment, stress relief, community 
bonding, and the opportunity to reclaim dominion 
over our diets from a corporate food system. And 
while walking through a neighborhood lined with 
grey sidewalks and chain link fences, it’s a nice break 
to stare into these gardens, watching tomatoes climb 
up a green stem.
Elliot Lewis is a junior in Branford College.
Graduation at the Clinton Avenue School. Photos taken by Patricia Perez.



**Title: Beauty and the 'Keets**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

ILLUSTRATION & DESIGN BY LAURA PADILLA CASTELLANOS
 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
S
ea Street and Howard Avenue is just like any other 
intersection in City Point, a neighborhood at 
the southern tip of New Haven. It’s a quiet, 
residential area, with colonial-style houses, well-
mown lawns and chairs set out on the porches. Today 
is Wednesday, trash day, and the garbage bins have 
been rolled down to the curb. This, I’ve been told, is 
the best place to find a Monk Parakeet.  


Up where the branch of a nearby tree hangs over 
a parked car, there’s a giant bundle of dead twigs, 
like an enormous, desiccated beehive. As I look, a 
bird flutters out of the nest and lands delicately on 
a utility pole. It’s about a foot long and the color 
of lime candy, with blue-tipped wings and a short, 
rounded beak, like a pair of pliers. I hear a snap­
ping sound and look over just in time to see another 
shock of green feathers wrestling a twig from a 
dead branch. The two of them look like something 
you might expect to find on a Jamaican doorstep 
singing a sweet song to Bob Marley—not here, a 
block away from the Connecticut Turnpike, their 
squawks blending with the rumble of a passing gar­
bage truck. 


Monk Parakeets are native to the savannas of 
South America, but for the last fifty  years, they’ve 
established wild and self-sustaining colonies up and 
down the coast of Connecticut, as well as New 
York, Florida, and even parts of Texas. By nesting 
communally–each condo-like structure big enough 
to fill the back of a pickup truck–they insulate 
themselves against frosty New England winters. It’s 
still unclear how they settled here, over five thou­
sand  miles from their native habitat. But that hasn’t 
stopped people from theorizing.


“I actually know the origin of the parakeets,” 
Heather writes at the bottom of an article in 
Damned Connecticut—an online journal featuring the 
“weird, the odd, or the unexplained” in Connecti­
cut. “They appeared in Stamford in the early nine­
ties  after a truck transporting them was involved 
in an accident.” Lenny disagrees. “The truth of the 
matter is this,” he writes. “The parakeets escaped 
from the Beardsley Zoo in Bridgeport about fif­
teen years ago.” Another commenter, aptly named 
MY2CENTS, interjects. “Lenny was close ... the 
birds escaped from the Railway Express Terminal in 
Bridgeport.” 


The truth is probably less spectacular than the 
readers of Damned Connecticut would have you 
believe, involving some combination of exasperated 
pet owners and crafty parakeet escapees in the late 
nineteen-sixties and early nineteen-seventies. “They 
are noisy pets and perhaps irresponsible pet own­
ers grew tired of the constant squawks and released 
them outside,” the Connecticut Audubon Society 
speculates. Free from the private serenading of their 
pets, those owners—and everyone else in City Point 
for that matter—suffer now from a very public army 
of wild squawkers. 


“[The parakeets] are up at dawn and you can 
often hear hundreds of the birds chattering at the 
same time,” said Noble Proctor, a former Professor 
of Ornithology at Southern Connecticut State Uni­
versity, in an interview with the website CTMQ. 
“It’s penetrating.” 


Standing below the nest on Sea Street, I watch 
two more birds emerge and hop along the branch, 
their tail feathers fluttering. They cock their heads 
in quick, jerky movements, like dogs staring at a 
treat. I forget myself and watch them move for a few 
minutes, my heart beating fast. It feels like I’ve been 
granted special access to a private zoo enclosure.


“I love them,” one New Haven resident, Mindy 
Roseman, tells me on the phone. “I came to visit the 
house five years ago, and there were parakeets in the 
tree. I thought, ‘my God, we’re moving to a trop­
ical paradise!’” When I ask her about the noise, she 
laughs and says, “You know, I-95 is only six blocks 
away. I’d rather hear bird sounds than the sound of 
motorcycles.”  


But Roseman acknowledges that she doesn’t speak 
for everyone in the neighborhood. Some people are 
openly fed up with the birds and their antics. “Par­
ticularly the old-timers,” she adds. 


They cock their heads in quick, jerky 
movements, like dogs staring at a treat. 
I forget myself and watch them move 
for a few minutes, my heart beating 
fast. It feels like I’ve been granted spe­
cial access to a private zoo enclosure.



**Title: The Parakeet Problem**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A couple weeks ago, I opened my phone to a 
voicemail left by one City Point resident, Earl Ben­
son, who preferred to use a pseudonym. “Leave a 
message at my house number, because I’m illiterate 
when it comes to texting and stuff of that sort.” His 
voice is slow and raspy, and he occasionally allows 
himself to wander from subject to subject, but he 
is succinct when it comes to the parakeets. “They 
are dangerous. I would be very much in favor of 
removing them.”

He has a point. For one thing, the four-hundred-
pound nests have been known to fall unexpectedly. 
“The largest nest recently fell off the tree, even after 
it survived the last wind storm,” City-Pointer Raquel 
Seacord wrote to me. “It was the size of a small car. 
Thankfully it fell on the street.” What’s more, the 
tropical birds like to nest near warm places, often 
on top of electrical transformer boxes at the top of 
utility poles, which has led to unexpected fires and 
power failures. 

“My real concern is that it would fall on some­
body or even kill somebody,” Benson tells me.  “I 
care more about human beings than parrots.” 

From 2005 to 2010, the utility company United 
Illuminating Co. (UI) and local Connecticut gov­
ernments jointly led a piecemeal campaign to rid 
the area of parakeets. Small bands of uniformed UI 
workers worked covertly to tear down the nests, 
often in the dead of night. They removed hundreds 
of nests from their utility poles and lighting fixtures, 
setting flocks of anxious birds loose, without the 
shelter they rely on to survive this far north. For 
good measure, UI workers also netted hundreds of 
parakeets and turned them over to the U.S. Depart­
ment of Agriculture for asphyxiation with carbon 
monoxide gas. But a public outcry spearheaded by 
the Darien-based animal rights group Friends of 
Animals—which included a threat to forego deco­
rating their homes with holiday lights—eventually 
put enough pressure on the company to stop the 
euthanizations.

Priscilla Feral has been president of Friends of 
Animals since 1987. She was a staunch advocate 
against United Illuminating, leading multiple law­
suits against the company. Fifteen years later, Feral 
still has an edge to her voice when she talks about 
UI. “I remember I was sitting at my desk,” she tells 
me, “and there’s a blizzard outside. The snow is 
blowing sideways, and they’re yanking nests down. 
It seemed draconian to me. It seemed especially 
heartless.” 

Feral has spent her life fighting for the rights of 
animals. “This company has contempt for [the par­
akeets],” she said in a 2008 interview, referring to 
UI. “They were compared to cockroaches and rats. 
They are keen on wiping them out of this environ­
ment.”


Earlier this year I was living in a house in Utah, 
when one night I woke up to find two mice scam­
pering across my bedspread. I jumped out of bed 
and turned on the light. They were fat and patchy, 
with wiry grey hair and naked pink tails that jerked 
back and forth as they scampered across the floor 
and squeezed themselves beneath the crack in my 
closet door. Revolted, trying to forget the image of 
the twitchy little rodents crawling over my pillow as 
I slept, I spent the rest of the night on the couch. The 
next morning, I steeled myself to open the closet 
door, and found that the mice had made a nest out of 
an assortment of random household items: shreds of 
newspaper, wood shavings, string, and a used tissue 
harvested from my bathroom trash can. 

On YouTube, there are hundreds of videos show­
ing cheap, DIY ways to deal with mice. You can 
drown them in bowls of water, trap them in plastic 
bottles, crush them beneath falling weights. After 
watching one video of five or six slicked-black mice 
slathered in peanut oil, struggling to climb up the 
smooth surface of a glass bowl, I realized I didn’t have 
the stomach for this. So I drove to the supermarket 
and found a Tomcat mousetrap—a minimalist black 
box advertising “Clean, no Touch Disposal!”—and 
checked the price on the back. Only $3.99.

Mice and parakeets both cause damage to prop­
erty, both inhabit spaces they aren’t meant for, both 
get in the way of regular human activity. But in 
Connecticut, mice are killed by the thousands, and 
parakeets galvanize a five-year conservation move­
ment. The explanation, as far as I can tell, is the same 
reason there’s a Connecticut Audubon Society but 
no Connecticut Arachnid Society. We put a pre­
mium on beauty—one animal has it, the other does 
not. This kind of selective compassion demonstrates 
itself all the time, in the pets we adopt and the foun­
dations to which we donate. A study conducted 
by Washington University, for example, found 
that participants more reflexively offered to donate 
money to aid traditionally beautiful animals—like 
koalas and giraffes—and felt happier when their 
money went to an attractive species than a needy 
species. 

There is also the question of whether an ani­
mal is “deserving” of its death, which, to my mind, 
refers to an animal’s direct responsibility for its own 
inconvenience. Cockroaches, rats, pigeons, squir­
rels—they’ve adapted to encroach on our space, and 
are therefore somehow implicated. But the para­
keets were brought here against their will. Should 
this matter? Do we owe an extra measure of pro­
tection to animals we’ve directly screwed over—like 
parakeets shipped across the ocean just to make our 
living rooms more colorful—than animals that made 
room for themselves? 

Of course, our calculus of life-valuation takes a 
host of other criteria into account: lifespan, expe­
rience of pain, evolutionary complexity, proxim­
ity to “humanness,” ecological importance. All this 
informs our decisions about which animals deserve 
to live. But when it comes to New Haven’s para­
keets, it seems clear that one element played the pri­
mary role in shaping public opinion.  

“[The parakeets] brought joy to people’s lives,” 
said Priscilla Feral. “They were treasured in a way 
that cockroaches are not treasured.”

Is it okay to kill an animal based on subjective 
measures of beauty? I don't know. But at the end 
of that line of reasoning remains the unavoidable 
reality of parakeet nests ripped down in the swirl­
ing snow, and panicked birds choking on carbon 
monoxide. That kind of senseless brutality is hard to 
look away from. 

But here my moralizing is almost beside the 
point. We’ve established a way of life that requires 
animals to die—to keep our homes infestation-free, 
to upholster our furniture, to fill the back orders at 
McDonalds. And especially within a culture that 
unironically features both doggy hairstylists and 
twenty-four-hour extermination companies, the 
decisions about which animals deserve to die, and 
which don’t, have a lot to do with the way they look.


Friends of Animals and local advocates were suc­
cessful in putting a stop to the parakeet  euthaniza­
tions. “We were able to capture the imagination of 
people outside the organization,” Priscilla Feral tells 
me. “They could not believe something so beautiful 
was subject to that kind of hostility.” Mindy Rose­
man seems to agree. “The way I see it, the parakeets 
are part of the great food chain of the planet. Live 
and let live, that’s my motto.” Now City Point and 
areas up and down the coast of Connecticut rever­
berate with the squawking of a thriving community 
of Monk Parakeets. 

I bought the mouse traps, three of them, and 
placed them against the wall outside the closet door. 
The next day, I woke to find two small brown lumps 
crammed inside. A thin, spaghetti tail drooped from 
one of them. Careful not to make contact, I picked 
up the traps and rushed them to the garbage can, 
tied up the bag and dropped it in the bin outside. 

Jesse Goodman is a junior in Berkeley College and 
an Associate Editor of The New Journal.


**Title: Sex Work in New Haven**
**Author: Dereen Shirnekhi**
**Page number(s): 12**

Facing stigma and criminalization, six women find community
at the Sex Workers and Allies Network.



**Title: The New Haven Sex Workers Who Fight for Their Rights**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2021
 13
IN NOVEMBER OF 2020, a 
spider bit Glenda. Swollen and 
in pain, her finger began to 
necrotize. But she refused to visit 
the hospital. She’s a sex worker 
and drug user, and knew how 
she’d be treated there: security 
guards would accost her, confis­
cate her belongings, and strip her 
clothes. Phil Costello, a registered 
nurse practitioner and the Cli­
nical Director of Homeless Care 
at Cornell Scott - Hill Health 
center, urged her to go, to save 
her life, but when Glenda finally 
went, it was exactly as she feared. 
She felt judged and violated by 
doctors. So she left. After a few 
weeks, her finger had worsened 
to a point she could no longer 
bear, so she came back. She was 
lucky, doctors told her, that she 
only lost the pointer finger of her 
left hand. 

Most people wouldn’t think 
twice 
about 
seeking 
medical 
attention for a necrotizing finger. 
But Glenda was willing to risk her 
life to avoid it, signifying how the 
criminalization of sex work and 
its accompanying stigmatization 
make even the most basic protec­
tions difficult to access.

I met Glenda and five other 
women 
(Christine, 
Kimberly, 
Lindsay, Jasmine, and Lil’ Bit) at 
a Leadership Development Pro­
gram hosted by the Sex Workers 
and Allies Network (SWAN)—a 
harm-reduction organization that 
mostly services Fair Haven and 
distributes items like syringes, 
Narcan kits, safer sex supplies, and 
fentanyl test strips throughout the 
neighborhood. Since its founding 
in 2016, SWAN has worked clo­
sely with social service organiza­
tions in the area to connect sex 
workers to drug treatment faci­
lities or local shelters, and mem­
bers advocate for policy reforms 
like decriminalization. They also 
facilitate conversations with the 
police when sex workers want to 
file reports, and collaborate with 
local health providers to bring 
medical care directly to women 
on the street. They’re a kind of 
pillar in the community.

We met in a sparsely decorated 
room at New Reach, a non-pro­
fit organization in Fair Haven 
that supports housing insecure 
local families. Seats were placed 
in the formation of a large square, 
and we all sat so we could face 
one another. Beatrice Codianni, 
SWAN’s founder, organized the 
Leadership Development Program 
so that I would be able to talk to 
the organization’s members indi­
vidually. 

SWAN 
intentionally 
refers to the New Haven sex wor­
kers they service as their “mem­
bers” rather than their “clients” 
or “patrons.” I asked those pre­
sent in the room at New Reach 
what they considered the greatest 
threats to their safety. The res­
ponses ranged from the men they 
serviced (known as “dates”) to the 
harassment they received on the 
streets. They described robberies, 
drug usage, housing insecurity, 
and their lack of trust in resour­
ces such as the police or hospitals. 
These women are forced to con­
front danger in almost every facet 
of their daily lives. 

Beatrice, herself a former sex 
worker, established SWAN five 
years ago after watching a prosti­
tution sting in the neighborhoods 
of Fair Haven and Dwight-Ken­
sington. She was devastated by 
what she saw: fourteen women, 
between the ages of 24 and 59, 
staring down up to a year of jail 
time when, more than anything, 
they needed help. Beatrice knew 
sex work couldn’t be arrested 
away. Frustrated, she rallied with 
community activists to protest the 
sting operations, and they held 
demonstrations outside City Hall 
with signs that read “Sex work is 
real work” and “Stop the stings.” 
Beatrice went down to the police 
station and insisted on talking to 
then-police chief Anthony Cam­
pbell. She explained to him that 
sting operations were harmful and 
would never stop what they pur­
portedly set out to. Eventually, 
he agreed with her, promised to 
call them off, and his successors 
in the department have kept his 
word. Since that early settlement, 
SWAN has grown into one of the 
only organizations in Connecti­
cut that sex workers can come to 
when they need care.

Christine, who is the daughter 
of a retired police officer, des­
cribed to me how her drug usage 
threatened her life, explaining that 
she is an active heroin addict. She 
also mentioned the danger posed 
by dates. Lindsay echoed the sen­
timent. 

“You don’t know what’s going 
to happen,” Lindsay added. “Some 
people are really crazy.”

Jasmine agreed, saying that the 
greatest threats to her safety were 
“creepy ass men,” and that she also 
sometimes worried about stickup 
kids robbing her after they thou­
ght she’d been on a date.

When I asked Lil’ Bit the same 
question regarding threats to her 
safety, she immediately named the 
police. 

“I just feel like they’re very jud­
gemental, especially if you have a 
past history or a record,” she said. 
She wouldn’t go to them if she 
needed help. “Especially if they 
look your name up and see your 
history. If you’re a drug addict or 
prostitute, forget about it. You’re 
not a human. You’re just some, 
you know, junkie. If you’re in a 
situation or predicament, they feel 
as if it was your fault.”


--- Page 14 ---

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Because of the criminal 
status of their labor, sex 
workers in the United States 
have struggled to effectively 
organize to defend them­
selves against exploitation.

Kimberly, who said that dates 
were the largest threat to her 
safety as well, quickly shook her 
head when I asked if she would 
feel comfortable going to the 
police if she were harmed. Most of 
the women had the same reaction. 
“They’re just too judgemen­
tal,” Kimberly said. “Very judge­
mental. I don’t trust them ‘cause 
there was a cop out there who was 
raping women, too.”

Kimberly was referring to Gary 
Gamarra, a former member of 
the New Haven Police Depart­
ment who was accused of sexua­
lly assaulting two sex workers 
after serving as an officer in Fair 
Haven for four years. Gamarra 
resigned in December 2020. An 
Internal Affairs report, obtained 
in April 2021 by the New Haven 
Independent, details months of 
investigation into the allegations. 
Both women, who have remained 
anonymous, told investigators that 
they felt they had no choice but to 
have sex with Gamarra due to his 
position as a police officer. But at 
first, they were reluctant to come 
forward. 

“They didn’t think we would 
listen to them,” Captain David 
Zannelli told me. Zannelli is in 
his seventeenth year of law enfor­
cement and oversees the Internal 
Affairs unit of the New Haven 
Police Department. He emphasi­
zed that he and his detectives did 
everything they could to get the 
victims’ statements anyway, and 
they had Beatrice’s help, because 
the two women were SWAN 
members. 

When Gamarra was confronted 
with evidence, according to the 
IA report on the investigation, he 
burst into tears, said that he had 
“fucked up,” and shared a version 
of the events that was almost iden­
tical to what both women shared 
independently. The only discre­
pancy was that Gamarra claimed 
the sex was consensual. 

Gamarra’s admission was good 
enough for Internal Affairs, but 
not for the State’s Attorney’s 
Office, which, for now, has deci­
ded not to press criminal charges 
against him due to a lack of pro­
bable cause. Beatrice and her team 
at SWAN vehemently oppose this 
decision, but Zannelli acknowle­
dges that the physical evidence 
is not in their favor. At times, it 
was difficult to corroborate the 
victims’ stories because they had 
changed them or forgotten details. 

Gamarra 
has 
an 
upcoming 
decertification hearing with Con­
necticut’s Police Officer Standards 
and Training Council, where the 
NHPD may bar him from serving 
as a police officer in the state. The 
process is long and tedious, pos­
sibly taking many months until a 
hearing is held. 

The Attorney’s Office’s refusal 
to press charges hasn’t helped the 
already tense relationship between 
New Haven sex workers and the 
police. The women often feel 
that they won’t be taken seriously 
when filing claims because they 
aren’t perfect victims, and the 
Attorney’s Office’s decision has 
reconfirmed that to them. 

Stigma pervades the hazardous 
relationship between sex workers 
and police, even as members of 
law enforcement, like Zannelli, 
work to mend that dynamic. A 
2020 joint report by Yale’s Global 
Health Justice Partnership (GHJP) 
and SWAN titled “Mistreatment 
and Missed Opportunities” sur­
veyed forty-nine New Haven sex 
workers, and found that 83 per­
cent of respondents believed that 
they have been stigmatized or 
disrespected by police. 89 percent 
of respondents had been incarce­
rated at some point—sex workers 
are often charged with crimes 
related to  homelessness, drug 
use, and the sex work itself, such 
as loitering, trespassing, and pos­
session. Having a criminal record 
can make it harder to find housing 
or alternate forms of employment, 
which traps sex workers in a cycle; 
they may not be able to leave the 
industry even if they’d like to. 

Beatrice cited incidents relayed 
to her by SWAN members that 
echoed the findings of the sur­
vey, in which police have suppo­
sedly said that sex workers can’t be 
raped, or that their stories aren’t 
credible because the women may 
have been using drugs at the time.  

While some women told me 
they were comfortable going to 
the police and some said they were 
comfortable seeing doctors, all of 
them had experiences in which 
they felt uncomfortable when 
trying to access services that did 
not fully cater to their particular 
needs as sex workers. 

Christine told me that she has 
been raped before, but was never 
able to bring herself to get a rape


--- Page 15 ---

DESIGN BY ANNLI NAKAYAMA
 15
kit done or file a report with 
the police. Just talking about it 
is hard for her. “A few times I 
tried to share with a few people, 
and nobody wants to listen,” she 
said. “Or they don’t believe you 
anyways, so [you] just swallow 
it,” she said. “I’ve had women 
cry on my lap and give me every 
utmost detail of rape or 
assault, and I’m writing 
everything down. I can’t 
do that. I’m not that 
brave.”

That feeling of iso­
lation and distrust is 
fueled by policy crimi­
nalizing sex work, says 
Alice Miller. She is an 
adjunct associate profes­
sor at Yale Law School, 
assistant clinical profes­
sor at the Yale School of 
Public Health, and the 
co-director of the Glo­
bal Health Justice Part­
nership, a research and 
advocacy-oriented orga­
nization that operates at 
the intersection of health 
and justice. Miller has 
been working with sex 
worker 
organizations 
around the country for 
the past twenty-five to 
thirty years and has seen 
first-hand how crimina­
lization feeds stigma, and 
how stigma leads to ina­
dequate social support, 
especially in the case of 
labor rights. Because of 
the criminal status of their labor, 
sex workers in the United States 
have struggled to effectively orga­
nize to defend themselves against 
exploitation. Progress has been 
made in the past five to ten years 
as sex workers have increased their 
visibility, but this has not eradica­
ted the barriers to security that sex 
workers face.

“What makes people safer in 
strawberry picking or christmas 
tree farming—which have been 
big areas of exploitation—is their 
ability to organize and work lega­
lly in a country,” Miller said. “The 
safer you are from the predation 
of the law, the more able you are 
to organize with others to protect 
your rights.” 

Viewing sex work through a 
labor rights lens shifts the terms 
of 
policy 
discussions, 
Miller 
explained. She emphasized that 
human trafficking—which poli­
cymakers often conflate with sex 
work itself—can take place in 
any industry. Human trafficking 
occurs when individuals are coer­
ced into performing labor, and it 
can happen anywhere that wor­
kers have insufficient legal protec­
tions in the event of abuse. In the 
strawberry industry, for example, 
migrant agricultural workers on 
farms in Spain and California have 
described 
poor 
compensation, 
dangerous working con­
ditions, and the threat 
of deportation if they 
ever retaliated against 
employers. “If you are 
disempowered, if you 
can’t organize, if you 
can’t tell people what 
you’re doing, and if you 
can’t leave what you’re 
doing—if all of those 
things are true, then you 
are at risk of being tra­
fficked,” Miller said.

Another danger ari­
sing from the confla­
tion of sex work and 
trafficking has been the 
FOSTA-SESTA (Fight 
Online Sex Trafficking 
Act-Stop Enabling Sex 
Traffickers Act) laws, 
ostensibly intended to 
hold websites accoun­
table for allowing ads 
featuring 
trafficked 
children. But according 
to 
Karolina 
Ksiazek, 
SWAN’s 
Director 
Advocacy, the law was 
written with such broad 
language that it essen­
tially made it illegal for 
any website to support prostitu­
tion in any way. This included 
banning websites that sex workers 
used to keep themselves safe, such 
as forums where they could warn 
each other about dangerous dates. 
Because of FOSTA-SESTA, it’s 
harder for sex workers to screen 
clients and negotiate before mee­
ting them. Even something as



**Title: Christine, working at the SWAN mobile outreach van.**
**Author: Dereen Shirnekhi**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Christine, working at the SWAN mobile outreach van. 
Photo courtesy of Beatrice Codianni. 
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
innocuous as the SWAN website 
has to be hosted on a server in Ice­
land, because it could be seen as 
illegal in the United States. 
Some of the sex workers I spoke 
with at the Leadership Develop­
ment Program, like Glenda, cited 
housing insecurity as the greatest 
threat to their safety and the most 
revelant factor in 
their susceptibility 
to trafficking and 
coercion. In the 
GHJP and SWAN 
joint report, 58 
percent 
of 
res­
pondents said that 
they were hou­
sing insecure. Sex 
workers’ 
safety 
is 
inextricably 
intertwined with 
s o c i o e c o n o m i c 
insecurity, addic­
tion, 
the 
legal 
system, and gen­
der-based 
vio­
lence, and refor­
mers have their 
eyes set on foun­
dational 
change. 
“Systemic 
over­
hauls 
are 
what 
we need,” Miller 
said. “And the way 
to do the overhaul 
is created by the 
day-to-day unders­
tanding of your interaction with 
those systems. It’s not an either/
or—it’s a both, and.” Progress, 
Miller explained, is tied to efforts 
currently underway to decrimi­
nalize homelessness, to establish 
overdose prevention facilities with 
an adequate number of beds for 
women, and to reform drug and 
criminal policy. 
Captain David Zannelli unders­
tands the criticism of his officers, 
and he said that he tries to work 
with SWAN when he can—and 
they often have reached compro­
mises—but that he couldn’t dis­
regard crimes. “We can’t ignore 
community members that actually 
live in the Ferry Street area who 
have a complaint,” he said. Ferry 
Street is a high-traffic road in Fair 
Haven, lined with businesses and 
densely packed houses. During 
the day, kids play outside and resi­
dents walk to local markets and 
churches. It’s also where many sex 
workers gather to find work, and 
members of the community have 
been complaining about that to 
the police department for a long 
time. Zannelli explained that it 
was difficult to appease the com­
munity while also transitioning 
away from a punitive status quo. 
Still, he claimed to be happy to 
work with SWAN when he could.
“At the end of the day, we want 
the behavior to stop.” By behavior, 
he’s referring to drug-use and sex 
acts in public, loitering, and lea­
ving needles in playgrounds. “We 
can’t allow that. I’m not gonna 
have that,” he said. But he would 
prefer to do that without arresting 
sex workers. Zannelli recognized 
that sex workers are often cau­
ght up in cycles, 
and he tries to call 
Beatrice so that 
she can arrive at 
the scene and talk 
to the sex wor­
kers herself. He 
also said that he 
sometimes talks to 
churches to help 
find the workers 
a place to go for 
the night. Zan­
nelli 
acknowle­
dged that there 
was progress to be 
made. “We have 
some work to do. 
I’m not saying that 
we do everything 
perfectly, 
‘cause 
we don’t, and we 
do have mistakes,” 
he said. 
Jaclyn 
Luci­
bello, 
SWAN’s 
Director 
Outreach, belie­
ves there is still plenty of room for 
improvement when it comes to 
repairing the relationship between 
sex workers and the police. 
“Things are definitely getting bet­
ter,” she said. “But we're far away 
from those open lines of commu­
nication between sex workers and 
police officers.”


In the meantime, sex workers 
are doing what they can to keep 
themselves safe. According to 
Glenda, it gets worse every day 
on the streets. Kimberly agreed, 
saying, “People drive by—a few 


years ago on Halloween, there was 
people throwing eggs and stuff. 
And then there were people going 
around shooting the workers.” She 
was referring to a recent pattern of 
people shooting sex workers with 
paintball guns. “It was really bad. 
And there are a lot of people dying 
and shit, too. From addictions and 
stuff like that. Depression too… 
you get very depressed. There are 
times when I just want to end it. 
But God put me here for a reason.”

Being able to comfortably talk 
to someone is important for these 
women. “The group’s really hel­
pful for venting,” Lindsay said, 
referring to SWAN. Beatrice helps 
her “get help, get counseling.” She 
sees the therapists who work with 
SWAN. 

All the women make use of the 
resources SWAN distributes, such 
as needles and condoms, and they 
all said that they carry a blade to 
protect themselves. Some also 
carry mace. 

Christine said, “I carry a knife 
because once you’re in a car with 
somebody and something really 
fucked happens, it’s just you and 
them.” She referenced self-defense 
classes that SWAN hosted before 
the pandemic. “I was asking ques­
tions like—and I wasn't trying to 
be funny—if my head is in some­
body’s lap, I'm in the car with 
somebody, and somebody comes 
down like that”—she brought 
her elbow down hard—“how am 
I going to defend myself? Self 
defense is person-to-person, face-
to-face.”

Kimberly, who is 50 years old 
and has been a sex worker since 
she was 14, also said that it was 
necessary to be able to defend 
yourself. “If I do have to fight 
somebody, I'll fight them. I carry 
a blade on me.”

Jasmine said that she trusts her 
instincts, and if she has a bad fee­
ling about a date, then she won’t 
go. “When I'm scared about being 
[robbed], I'll try to go somewhere 
I know there’s a camera, like a 
street camera or security camera. 
Preferably somewhere really well-
lit or populated.”

Still, many of the women have 
people they can depend on for 
support. Christine said that she 
knows there are people who are 
invested in her safety. “If there’s 
ever an emergency, I can call on 
people all the time… My people 
[at SWAN] and my people on 
the street, and I got family that 
support and love me.”

Kimberly was wearing a SWAN 
shirt, bright purple with a small 
sketch of an actual swan on the 
front. She said her husband was a 
source of support, who she endea­
ringly referred to as a “big baby.” 
He’s blind, so the two of them take 
care of each other. She told me 
that his protectiveness sometimes 
annoyed her. But she affectiona­
tely added, “That’s what I signed 
up for when I married him.”

Christine also said that she and 
the other workers look out for 
each other. 
“All of us street people, the 
majority of us, it’s like we’re a big 
dysfunctional family,” she said. 
“Even though one day one person 
might hate the other person, they 
may be angry at the person, some­
body may steal from somebody or 
do something stupid—for the most 
part, there’s a big group of people 
that wouldn’t let the other person 
get hurt. There’s a lot of loyalty.”

I asked her what that looked 
like, and she explained. “Let’s say 
I get thrown out of a car and Kim 
comes across me, she’s walking 
down the street and I’m beat up. 
She’s going to pick me up. We’ve 
got a tight group of people.”

“This one’s always helping peo­
ple,” Jaclyn said, and everyone 
laughed while Christine smiled. 
“They call me the mother,” 
Christine said. “‘She's our mother 
out here.’ And I do, I even scold 
them.” 
Dereen Shirnekhi is a junior in 
Davenport College and an Associate 
Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: ASIDE THE FARMINGTON CANAL HERITAGE TRAIL**
**Author: ELI MENNERICK**
**Page number(s): 17**

ASIDE
THE FARMINGTON 
CANAL HERITAGE 
TRAIL
BY ELI MENNERICK
In the 1830s, a canal ran from 
Northampton, Massachusetts to 
New Haven Harbor. Horses hauled 
boats through water four feet deep. 
The canal failed to profit, and soon it 
became a railroad. The railroad failed, 
too, and in the nineteen-nineties, it 
became an eighty-four-mile bike path 
called the Farmington Canal Heri­
tage Trail. In summer and fall, when 
the trees are leafy, dappled shadows 
spill over the pavement. Biking 
into New Haven, you ride through 
Newhallville, then past Yale Health 
and Benjamin Franklin College. The 
path ends at a closed gate beneath 
Temple Street, about ten blocks 
from the canal’s original terminus 
at Long Wharf. For a decade, New 
Haven tried and failed to close that 
gap. Finally, in August, construction 
began. 
SEPTEMBER 2021
 17



**Title: When Yale Harbored a Nazi**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 18**

 18
When Yale 
Harbored 
a Nazi
Vladimir Sokolov was a 
beloved Russian professor 
at Yale. Then his past 
caught up with him. 
COLLAGE BY ZACHARY GROZ. 
Photo  source: U.S. Immigration 
and Nationalization Service, 
visa photo (1951).       
By Zachary Groz



**The Sokolov Affair: A Yale Professor's Nazi Past**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2021
 19
F
or seventeen long years, 
from 1959 to 1976, Vladimir 
Sokolov had been a respect­
ed, well-liked Senior Lec­
turer in Russian at Yale. He was a 
skilled teacher, reserved, revealed 
little of himself, and students and 
colleagues knew not to ask him 
about his life in Russia during the 
Second World War. In conver­
sation, his story was skeletal: he 
came of age under Stalin’s purges, 
fled as a political refugee, eluded 
death too many times to recount.  
But in the nineteen-seventies, 
a part of Sokolov’s past that he 
had concealed for three decades 
flooded his present. By 1985, 
he was facing death threats and 
imminent deportation from the 
United States. Sokolov wasn’t the 
dissident he insisted he was. He 
had been a Nazi.

The threads began to unravel 
in February 1976. A short article 
appeared in the daily newspaper 
of the Soviet Communist Par­
ty’s Youth League, alleging that 
a Russian professor at Yale had 
written propaganda for the Nazis 
during their assault on the East­
ern Front. Then a longer piece 
was published a couple of months 
later in a Soviet Yiddish magazine 
describing that professor’s war­
time actions. Sokolov, the author 
wrote, had been the deputy edi­
tor-in-chief of a Nazi-controlled 
newspaper in the Russian border­
lands, pumping out exhortations 
to genocide. 

In May 1976, Sid Resnick, a 
New Haven-based writer for the 
Morgen Freiheit, a large commu­
nist Yiddish daily in New York, 
sent a translation of the article, 
along with photocopies of the 
original pieces it referenced, to 
Robert Jackson, then-chairman of 
Yale’s Slavic Languages and Lit­
eratures department.

Twice 
before, 
the 
depart­
ment had been tipped off about 
Sokolov’s Nazi history by anony­
mous sources in the Soviet Union. 
Both times, the faculty met behind 
closed doors and asked Sokolov to 
explain himself. In both cases, he 
convinced them that he was being 
smeared. The KGB hated him for 
his anticommunism, his writing 
in the emigré press, his work at 
the university; they had declared 
him guilty of outlandish atroci­
ties to discredit his activism. The 
department dropped the inquiry, 
and Sokolov stayed on the fac­
ulty. The tips stopped coming. 
But now Jackson had pages of 
Sokolov’s broadsides in the Nazi 
newspaper Rech on his desk, and 
he couldn’t look away. What he 
saw was “Goebbels-like,” he told 
the Nazi hunter and journalist 
Charles R. Allen, Jr., who was 
reporting on the Sokolov affair 
for 
progressive 
quarterly 
Jewish Currents. “In this strug­
gle, Zhidostva [the Kikes] will 
be destroyed finally and forever,” 
one of them read. In another, 
he told readers, “For twenty five 
years, the Zhids [Kikes] hit us, 
for twenty-five years, the zhids 
[kikes] tormented and ripped 
pieces from the Russian people. 
Finished! Never again will their 
foot trod upon our soil. And there 
where they continue to torture 
the people, there will sooner or 
later be an outcry: ‘Beat them!’” 

I.
The 
documents 
circulated 
around the department that sum­
mer, and a third meeting was 
called between faculty in the 
department; 
Jackson; 
Horace 
Taft, the Dean of the College; 
Jarislov Pelikan, the Dean of the 
Graduate School; Hanna Gray, 
the Provost; and Sokolov. The 
articles weren’t Soviet forgeries, 
Sokolov said this time, but he’d 
been coerced into writing them 
under penalty of death. 

Who forced him to join the paper 
to begin with? He had to survive. 
He had to feed his family. Did 
he have to urge people to slaughter 
innocents? Did he have to call Jews 
“yellow rats?” He had been ill. He 
couldn’t work in the mines or the 
forests. He had to write. He wrote 
what the Nazis told him to. Did 
he believe what he wrote? He only 
wanted to write against the Bol­
sheviks. The censor twisted his 
words. But when pressed for con­
crete examples of edits from the 
censor, Sokolov could only give 
one: All his references to “Jews” 
had been changed to “zhids,” the 
Russian equivalent of “kike.”      

That was enough for four 
professors in the department—
Carol Anschuetz, Victor Erlich, 
Riccardo Picchio, and Edward 
Stankiewicz—to 
draw 
a 
line 
in the sand. In late June, a few 
weeks after the meeting, they 
wrote an open letter to Sokolov, 
saying that he could “under no 
circumstances...count 
on 
undersigned for any support 
whatsoever.” They sent the letter 
knowing that the university had 
already decided what it intended 
to do with him, which amounted, 
in essence, to whatever Sokolov 
wanted to do with himself. He 
was 63, two years shy of retire­
ment, and, on the books, hadn’t 
done anything to violate his con­
tract. As an institutional matter, 
the university said its hands were 
tied. 

Provost Gray met with Sokolov 
alone that summer. He was incon­
solable, she recalled in her mem­
oirs, “an aging and seemingly 
broken man who felt that he was 


--- Page 20 ---

 20
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
about to lose everything, and was 
desperately concerned about what 
would become of his family.” She 
promised that Yale wouldn’t force 
him out. He chose to resign and 
received a full year’s salary as sev­
erance, plus funds from a TIAA 
pension he and Yale had contrib­
uted to over the years. 

Meanwhile, Jackson went wad­
ing through the department’s 
records to try to understand how 
Sokolov had been hired in the first 
place and to study his track record 
on the faculty. He interviewed 
former students and colleagues 
Sokolov socialized with, some of 
whom said that his gentle persona 
was an act that occasionally got 
sloppy. “We knew many things 
about him from students,” Jack­
son, now 98 and nearing 20 years 
emeritus, told me. “We knew 
that he was rather outspoken 
with those students. One of them 
informed me that he said he had 
‘dogs who can smell out Jews.’” 

Using the department’s internal 
documents and what he’d gathered 
from interviews, Jackson wrote up 
an 11-page account of Sokolov’s 
time at Yale, which has since, it 
seems, been lost. “I had studied his 
background,” he told me, “how he 
used it to bring other people into 
the department with similar ideas 
as his own, vicious anti-Semitic 
ideas. I gave this account to the 
Provost at a meeting of her staff, 
and she cast the whole thing aside 
rather haughtily.” Jackson thought 
about publishing what he’d writ­
ten, then thought better of it. “I 
played a role as a spokesman of the 
department. At the time, I thought 
it would have upset the apple cart,” 
he said. But the case, and what it 
meant for the department, stuck 
with him. When the dust had set­
tled, he went back to look through 
the department’s in-house files on 
Sokolov, the ones he’d extensively 
sourced from for his probe. They 
had vanished.     

***

Alexander Schenker, ex-chair­
man of the Russian department 
and one of Sokolov’s closest allies 
on the faculty, had been on leave 
as the crisis around Sokolov deep­
ened that summer. When Schen­
ker got back to campus before 
the fall term, Sokolov had already 
resigned, and he was “outraged” 
by the department’s handling of 
the case, according to Jackson. 
Schenker, a Polish-Jewish emi­
gré who fled Krakow for Russia 
as a teenager amidst the Nazis’ 
advance, and had been sent to a 
labor camp with his mother, kept 
a lifelong hatred of the Soviets and 
charged that the department had 
indulged in a witch hunt. 

Weeks later, at the start of the 
semester, the Yale Daily News 
picked up the story of Sokolov’s 
resignation and sought Schenk­
er’s comment. “Here you have 
a man who had suffered during 
those years, who has been arrested, 
who has risked going to concen­
tration camps,” he told John Har­
ris ’78 at the News. “The German 
occupation, paradoxical as it may 
seem, was the only real chance to 
escape.” Sokolov, he continued, 
“believed that the temporary evil 
of Hitler, who was bound to be 
defeated by the West, was better 
than the Russians. People have a 
right to change. He is not anti-Se­
mitic now. In fact, he is probably 
the most pro-Semitic Russian in 
the department… The question 
is, do we recognize redemption or 
not?” 

The article set off a months-
long debate in the News’s opinion 
section. First, in September 1976, 
the editors of the News published 
an editorial defending Sokolov on 
the grounds of academic freedom 
and good behavior. “Although 
we are somewhat alarmed by the 
vast ideological distance one man 
can travel in 30 years,” the Board 
wrote that it was inclined to trust 
Sokolov when he said that “he is 
no longer anti-Semitic and that he 
‘loves his students.’” “The lesson 
is simple,” they wrote, “all men 
grow when they leave the house 
of intellectual bondage.” The 
same day, the scandal breached the 
national news orbit under a loud 
New York Times header: “YALE 
TEACHER QUITS OVER PRO-
NAZI ROLE.” 

Throughout the week, let­
ters streamed into the News from 
professors, students, and alums, 
some castigating, others praising 
the editorial. Sokolov’s defenders 
repeated a variation of Schenk­
er’s character reference: he had 
been a helpful and kind teacher, 
a “pro-Semite,” a Zionist, who at 
the time never knew of the Nazi 
genocide, who had been caught in 
a Soviet plot, framed with coun­
terfeits, framed as a personal ven­
detta, framed in order to delegit­
imize emigré dissent, Yale, and 
the U.S., whose present redeemed 
his past, whose past couldn’t be 
judged through a contemporary 
moral lens from a “New Haven 
armchair,” and, even if it could, 
whose speech was coerced and 
wasn’t, in itself, so bad, or was 
edited by the censor, or was writ­
ten by a boss, or was conscious, 
but for calculated and politically 
respectable reasons, or was a last 
resort to live. Alexandra Tolstoy, 
daughter of Leo and then-chair of 
the Tolstoy Foundation, a reset­
tlement organization for Russian 
refugees, was one of several prom­
inent figures to publicly vouch for 
Sokolov in the News. 

Sokolov’s detractors, for their 
DESIGN BY ALEXANDRA GALLOWAY


--- Page 21 ---

 21
part, said that his advocacy of 
genocide was willfully undertaken 
out of conviction and expedience, 
and bore an absolute immoral­
ity; that however he presented 
himself now was irrelevant to his 
crimes, that there had been other 
ways of surviving the war, that 
he was a chameleon; that a seeth­
ing antisemitism was a part of his 
sense of self, which left him pri­
vately raging, even at Yale, that he 
was under Jewish domination.   

Finally, 
Sokolov 
spoke 
himself in a letter to the YDN. 
Writing against the Bolsheviks, 
whatever the venue, had been 
his “sacred duty,” he wrote, and 
the Nazi press ended up being 
the only venue. The Nazis made 
him inflect his anti-Bolshevism 
with anti-Semitism, and he only 
wrote against Jews in power, he 
insisted, in “key positions in the 
party appartus.” By the time he 
was writing, there were no Jews 
left in the area, and it wasn’t until 
after the war that he learned of 
their “tragic fate.” And after the 
“Doctors’ Plot”—a 1953 Stalinist 
campaign animated by a lie that 
nine prominent doctors, six of 
whom were Jewish, had planned a 
mass-poisoning of the Soviet lead­
ership—Sokolov wrote that, at the 
time, he had told himself: “From 
now on the Jews have become 
allies in the struggle against our 
common 
enemy—Communism. 
The enemy of my enemy is my 
friend.” 

Friends 
and 
enemies. 
This 
was the activating principle of 
Sokolov’s life. You were either an 
instrument of or an obstacle to his 
future, deserving acceptance on 
the one hand, annihilation on the 
other. And when he held the tools 
of annihilation, he used them to 
devastating effect. 

II.
The city’s name was Orel. At 
the turn of the 20th century, it 
was home to about 75,000 peo­
ple, mostly farmers who worked 
the land and nobles who owned 
it. It was situated deep in “wooden 
Russia,” the agricultural heartland 
200 miles south of Moscow, and 
its main export was grain, huge 
amounts of it: both to feed the 
Empire and to sell abroad. It was 
laid out the way Russia’s agrar­
ian towns typically were—radial 
streets spiraling outward from a 
central market, ploughlands on 
the outskirts, deep birch forest 
beyond. 

Sokolov was born in Orel in 
1913 into a world that was about 
to be destroyed. His father, active 
in local politics, was a nobleman, 
a lawyer, and a landlord. His 
mother, the daughter of the Rec­
tor of the city’s theological semi­
nary, taught Russian literature at a 
local school. He and his younger 
brother were homeschooled until 
age nine, which, as he would later 
recount in an essay on the Soviet 
education system, was “customary 
in the families of the intelligentsia 
in those years.”  

Even before Sokolov was born, 
the area showed signs of a loom­
ing crisis, and the nobility was 
anxious. The price of grain was 
plummeting and the land tax was 
high. Peasants were swimming in 
debt. Famine had set in. The Tsar’s 
ministers warned him in the early 
1890s that his hold on the region 
was slipping away. So the gov­
ernment built railroads—by 1895, 
22,000 miles of track. They were 
meant to help the cities industri­
alize fast, a trick borrowed from 
America and Prussia. It worked. 
With the industrial setting came 
an industrial proletariat, a new 
intellectual class, an immiserated 
peasantry, and enormous private 
wealth. Contradiction meant cri­
sis. 

By mid-1905, the empire was 
in the throes of its first revolution, 
and rioting paralyzed the cities. 
That winter, Orel had its own 
night of mayhem. In the Tsar’s 
newspapers, the revolution was 
labeled a Jewish plot. The charge 
was meant to quarantine the spread 
of Bolshevism by association with 
Jewry, to whet the mob’s appetite 
for broken glass and blood. Orel 
had a relatively large Jewish pop­
ulation for a city outside the Pale 
of Settlement—about 2,000 at the 
time—and on October 18th, 1905, 
hundreds of the city’s Jews were

This was the activating principle of 
Sokolov’s life. You were either an in­
strument of or an obstacle to his future, 
deserving acceptance on the one hand, 
annihilation on the other. And when he 
held the tools of annihilation, he used 
them to devastating effect.



**A Collaborationist's Story: The Case of Mikhail Sokolov**
**Author: Masha Gessen**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
beaten in the street and rows of 
houses were burned. 


Over a decade later, in the early 
days of Bolshevik rule, the atmo­
sphere of reactionary violence lin­
gered in the area, and became a 
formative experience of Sokolov’s 
youth. In the summer of 1921, on 
a school-sponsored “cultural trip” 
to the Verkhovsky District, a few 
miles to the east of Orel, he got 
a glimpse of fighting in the Tam­
bov Rebellion, a grain farmers’ 
revolt against the Bolsheviks that 
devolved into vicious conflict. 


It was a war that the Red Army 
feared it could lose. Both sides 
slaughtered civilians, prisoners, 
and the families of their enemies. 
By June, the forests on Orel’s out­
skirts, where the farmers staged 
attacks on Red Army encamp­
ments in town, were clouded with 
poison gas. The scene was ripe 
with material for Sokolov’s per­
sonal mythology of persecution—
destruction seemed to chase him 
everywhere—and he’d tell it for 
the next 50 years as a kind of ori­
gin story. 


By the time Sokolov graduated 
from secondary school, in 1930, 
his father had fled for Siberia to 
avoid Stalin’s purges. He was still 
in Orel, living at home and con­
templating the future. He applied 
to universities in Moscow and 
Leningrad to study literature, 
but his “social origin”—as an heir 
to an old marriage of gentry and 
clergy—disqualified him. He went 
to work at a factory in the city for 
two years to try to scrub his aristo­
cratic past. Then, like other chil­
dren of White Russia, he applied 
to the local Teachers’ College, 
enrolled undercover as an ex-la­
borer, and graduated in four years. 
In 1937, he was hired at a Tech­
nical College in the nearby town 
of Ramon, commuting daily from 
Orel. 


Late one night in Decem­
ber 1937, he returned to the city 
by train. On the walk home, the 
streets were silent and dark. The 
river was high. He approached 
the gate of the house where he 
was renting a room. A light was 
on in the window, and the owner 
of the house was waiting for him 
there in silhouette. The NKVD—
the secret police—had come by 
earlier in the evening looking for 
him, the owner told him. He had 
to leave. Immediately. So he fled 
a thousand miles west by train to 
a city called Samara and hid there 
for several months.


In the summer, he came back 
east to Voronezh, a city near Orel 
that he knew from his youth. He 
lived under an assumed name and 
stayed with friends, who helped 
him get a position at a local college 
before the start of the school year, 
teaching literature. At the school, 
Sokolov laid low. He taught Rus­
sian classics and American ones in 
translation. Dreiser, Sinclair, and 
Hemingway were all on his sylla­
bus. In class, he nursed a dream of 
becoming a novelist. Outside, he 
nursed a chronic heart condition, 
which, he later said, had saved him 
from the draft. 


By the fall of 1941, the Nazis 
had voided their non-aggression 
pact with the Soviets and begun 
a war of annihilation on the East­
ern Front. Sokolov was still com­
fortable, monitoring the progress 
of the war by radio. He had been 
promoted to educational director 
of the college, fielding questions 
from the staff, who were growing 
uneasy about the city’s fate. “She 
was asking about her family,” he 
would write in 1957 about a meet­
ing with a Jewish teacher at the 
college, who sought his advice on 
whether to stay or go. “Her father, 
a simple tailor, did not want to be 
evacuated with the Bolsheviks. 
I advised her, of course, to leave 
immediately, since the rumours of 
German extermination of the Jews 
were being confirmed. However, 
neither she nor her family believed 
these rumours, regarding them as 
Bolshevik propaganda.” 


In September 1941, Sokolov 
returned to Orel for several days 
to see friends in the military and 
hear about developments on the 
front. “They said the Germans 
had camped in the forests around 
Bryansk and weren’t expected to 
begin an offensive for a while,” 
he wrote in 1954. But the attack 
began the next week, just days 
after Sokolov had headed back to 
Voronezh. By early October, the 
Nazis had made Orel a colony of 
the Reich and the central outpost 
for the eastern campaign. On the 
eve of the invasion, about 100,000 
people lived in the city. The next 
summer, only 38,000 people were 
left. Many were killed by artil­
lery, guillotined or garroted in the 
public square, set on fire, starved, 
marched to the forest and buried 
alive, or enslaved and sent by train 
to forced labor camps in Germany. 
Others fled the city for Soviet ter­
ritory further east or walked into 
the woods to join the partisans—
bands of Soviet-aligned soldiers 
scattered throughout the region. 
Nazi commandos hunted the Jews 
of Orel door-to-door until as 
late as November 1942, torturing 
them publicly before massacring 
them in the forest. 


Orel was more than a military 
anchor for the Nazis. It was an 
experiment in Hitler’s vision for 
a pan-continental Reich, where 
the frontier was cleared of Jews 
and Slavs by genocide and repop­
ulated by Germans. The Nazis 
leveled the city and slaughtered its 


--- Page 23 ---

SEPTEMBER 2021
 23
people, but to sanitize their image 
and subvert the Soviets, they built 
institutions after the fact and 
recruited locals—especially local 
professionals. They restarted the 
schools, repaired infrastructure, 
opened orphanages, subsidized 
a theater for anti-Bolshevik ora­
tors and entertainment that didn’t 
offend the new command—bread 
and circuses for those who stayed 
to see what the Nazis would do. 
But the most important institution 
was the newspaper. 


Sokolov didn’t need recruiting. 
Voronezh fell to the Nazis about a 
year after Orel, in July 1942. The 
battle for the city was among the 
most apocalyptic on the eastern 
front. Over half a million people 
were killed in under a month of 
fighting. Sokolov, his wife, Alev­
tina, a teacher at the college whom 
he had married that March, and 
her young daughter from a previ­
ous marriage, left after the city fell 
and walked through neighboring 
villages, 30 miles a day for two 
days, until they reached a train 
line that would take them back to 


When they got to the Orel sta­
tion, Sokolov picked up a copy of 
the local paper. He read it cover to 
cover in the terminal. The name, 
printed across the top of the page 
in rounded Cyrillic, was Rech—
“Speech”—and it stayed in his head 
for days. “I waited and hoped,” he 
later wrote of the moment, “and 
now I saw a word, a new word of 
truth. What was in it? What was 
in that word?” 


III.
The family settled in Orel. 
They stayed with an old friend 
for a few weeks while Sokolov 
looked for work. He was looking 
for a way to join the war against 
the Soviets, and his friend recom­
mended going to city hall, where 
he applied for an editorial job at 
Rech, the paper that caught his eye 
back at the station. The Nazi pro­
paganda unit screened him, liked 
his background—young ex-aristo­
crat, ex-teacher, devout, anti-Bol­
shevik to the bone—and called him 
for an interview. He showed up at 
the paper’s offices the next week, 
and met with two of its lead­
ers, the head writer, an ex-Soviet 
journalist named Mikhail Oktan, 
and the editor-in-chief, a German 
officer named Artur Bay.  


They hired Sokolov as a staff 
writer and copy editor. For his 
byline, he chose the pseudonym 
Samarin, after the 19th century 
Russian reformer and Slavophile 
philosopher, Yuri Samarin, “a 
great patriot,” he would later say. 
Now Samarin, Sokolov saw the 
position as a kind of patriotic call­
ing to resurrect a fallen Russia. He 
became a fixture at the paper. He 
climbed the ladder, wrote front-
page editorials, was promoted to 
literary editor in charge of the 
paper’s tone and style guide, and 
was then made deputy editor-in-
chief. He read what the Nazis’ 
propaganda heads put out and 
wired to the frontier, imitating 
their style. The Nazis wanted the 
press in their colonies to sell copy, 
entertain, outrage, and addict the 
population to their line. Those 
were the merits Sokolov learned 
to judge his work by. By late 
1942, the paper’s circulation had 
grown to 100,000, with distri­
bution channels throughout the 
region. 	


Sokolov proved he was reliable, 
and the Nazis rewarded him. They 
bought him a well-appointed 
villa in the old aristocratic sec­
tion of the city. They ensured he 
had good food and sharp clothes. 
They flew him on Luftwaffe 
flights to Germany on “fact-find­
ing” expeditions to see how the 
Germans lived and to tour Russian 
slave labor camps in Stuttgart and 
Munich so he could advertise them 
back in Orel. And they decorated 
him with a medal for “Bravery and 
Services” to the Reich on Hitler’s 
birthday. The world the Bolshe­
viks destroyed was now his again.     


At the paper, he built up a rep­
utation as a skilled propagandist 
with preferred themes: “Kike-Bol­
shevism,” Jewish “conquest of the 
world,” Jewish provocation of 
the war, Jewish “domination” in 
England and America, the Pro­
tocols of the Elders of Zion, and 
the Russian Liberation Army—
the Nazis’ corps of 50,000 Soviet 
defectors. 


Sokolov was useful because he 
combined four traits the Nazis 
looked for: venom, obedience, 
striving, and kitsch. What he 
wrote for the paper was graphic 
but 
also 
completely 
unorigi­
nal, repeating the tropes of the 
Judeo-Bolshevik myth, which, as 
the historian Paul Hanebrik writes 
in his 2018 book A Specter Haunt­
ing Europe, “was constructed from 
the raw materials of anti-Judaism, 
recycled and rearranged to meet 
new requirements.” Of a piece in 
a Soviet newspaper on the occu­
pation of Orel, Sokolov wrote: 
“I was so disgusted and repelled 
that I wanted to spit in a frenzy 
(will the reader forgive these harsh 
words of mine) because right 
out of the page there was staring 
at me a face with a hooked Kike 
nose.” On the Nazis: “The world 
has been divided into two parts. 
Germany and its allies represent a 
force intended to bring mankind 
order and justice.” Of the Allies: 
“In this war the people of Europe 


--- Page 24 ---

 24
and Asia are fighting against Jew­
ish plutocracy and Jewish Bolshe­
vism, against two outwardly dif­
ferent but inwardly like systems, 
systems which have brought the 
peoples only suffering.” About the 
Russian Revolution: “The Kikes 
made it their goal to cause bloody 
clashes within states by means of 
their deceptive, hypocritical slo­
gans, and to rush to power them­
selves.” On religion: “The Kikes 
waged a relentless and cruel war 
against religion, not despising any 
means, not even terror.”


Together, 
Sokolov’s 
words 
constituted a worldview he could 
justify and weaponize—and later 
deny he ever had. It was a sys­
tem of belief he and people of his 
milieu were devoted to, both as 
an explanation for their sudden 
loss of control over Russia and as a 
strategy for clawing it back. It was 
as expedient as it was sincere, as 
radical as it was typical, as Tsarist 
as it was Nazi.   


In the spring of 1943, Sokolov 
wrote a piece that became the 
magnum opus of his career at the 
paper. It was called “The Former 
Masters of Orel,” and it began 
with a reminiscence: “Memories 
of the Soviet times are connected 
with memories of the Kikes, the 
true masters of the USSR.” He 
remembered being in Kharkiv, a 
city in the northeast of Ukraine, 
on his way back from a trip to 
Crimea. It was 1941, and the war 
had just begun. “As much as the 
Jews were self-assured and impu­
dent before the war,” he wrote, “so 
much were they frightened and 
disturbed after it began...The city 
was like a disturbed anthill. It was 
easy to see: the Kikes are scared!” 
The terror the Jews of Kharkiv felt 
at the onset of the war brought 
Sokolov glee. So did the certainty 
of what would come next. The 
Nazis took Kharkiv in October. 
That winter, they killed 15,000 of 
the city’s Jews and buried them in 
a mass grave in the Drobytsky Yar 
ravine. To conserve bullets, the 
Nazis threw children alive among 
the piles of corpses and waited for 
the cold to kill them.     


Sokolov dedicated the rest of 
the article to listing Jews in the 
city by name and profession, to 
prove that they had ruled the city 
in the shadows before the Nazi 
“liberation.” Most of the 47 people 
he lists were teachers, doctors or 
bookkeepers. Later, in his defense, 
he said that he knew at the time 
that he wasn’t endangering any 
of the people he named. After all, 
they had already been killed or 
enslaved by the Nazis. 


***
By August 1943, the Sovi­
ets were on the verge of retak­
ing Orel, and Rech was pulping 
its archives. The Nazis evacuated 
west and took Sokolov and the rest 
of the staff with them. They went 
to Bryansk, then Bobruisk, which 
they still occupied, and restarted 
the press. In Bobruisk, Sokolov 
joined the last gasp of organized 
Russian collaboration on the fron­
tier, a small phalanx called the 
League for the Struggle Against 
Bolshevism, which his Rech super­
viser Mikhail Oktan had founded 
soon after they arrived in the city. 
To be admitted, members had to 
swear an oath to Hitler. Bobruisk 
fell to the Soviets less than a year 
later. When the city fell, the Nazis 
evacuated to Berlin, where they 
parked Sokolov in the offices of 
one, then another of their fatigu­
ing newspapers, still courting 
Russian defectors as the war drew 
to a close. 


After the war, he moved with his 
wife and daughter to the British 
Zone in West Germany, rented  a 
one-bedroom apartment in Ham­
burg, and edited the anti-com­
munist weekly Put for a couple of 
years. He then moved four hours 
south to the city of Limburg an 
der Lahn to edit Posev, the jour­
nal of the National Alliance of 
Russian Solidarists (NTS), a global 
network of militant nationalist 
Soviet emigrés who spent the early 
decades of the Cold War planning 
an anti-Bolshevik revolution. The 
NTS preached a kind of big tent 
anti-communism, but the origins 
of its German chapter were Nazi, 
and its reactionary goals resembled 
every other attempt at fascism. In 
Sokolov, they found a leader.   


But by 1951, the work was 
getting stale. Soviet emigration 
had shifted to the U.S. and with 
it went the center of emigré 
anti-communism. Sokolov was 
looking to get out of Germany 
and into America. On May 21, 
1952, he went to the Displaced 
Persons Commission in Wen­

The Nazi propaganda unit screened 
him, liked his background—young 
ex-aristocrat, ex-teacher, devout, an­
ti-Bolshevik to the bone—and called 
him for an interview.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2021
 25
torf to apply for a visa. Sokolov’s 
strongsuit had always been plead­
ing his case, explaining and ingra­
tiating himself to an interrogator. 
When he interviewed for the visa, 
he told the Commission a version 
of his story that he thought they’d 
like best. He came from a family 
of landowners close to the Tsar. 
He had been a fugitive from the 
Soviet secret police. He had been 
a “proofreader” for an “anti-com­
munist” newspaper in occupied 
Russia. He rose through the ranks 
in the emigré press in Germany. 
He wanted to take his talents to 
America. He wanted to fight the 
communists. 

He was approved for the visa 
in a matter of weeks and arrived 
in New York on June 27. The 
Tolstoy Foundation—which ear­
lier that year had been saved from 
bankruptcy by the CIA—helped 
him and other White Russian 
notables settle into the new coun­
try. 

IV.
At 38, Sokolov was determined 
to make himself an important lit­
erary figure and was already con­
templating his memoirs. He was 
still writing as Samarin—his Nazi 
pen name—in America,  and never 
thought to change it. He was sure 
the Nazis had gutted the files at 
Rech during their slash-and-burn 
retreat to the west. Even if his 
articles still existed somewhere, 
he was convinced they wouldn’t 
affect his new life. 

Through the Tolstoy Founda­
tion, he got a job as a copy editor 
at the Chekhov Publishing House 
in 
Manhattan, 
another 
CIA-
funded operation, which printed 
a hundred or so books by Soviet 
dissidents. Chekhov was meant, 
in the words of its biggest bene­
factor, George Kennan, America’s 
foreign policy sage of the early 
Cold War and one-time Ambassa­
dor to the Soviet Union, to break 
the “monopoly of the Soviet Gov­
ernment on current literary pub­
lication in the Russian language.” 
While at Chekhov, Sokolov 
prepared proofs for several books 
by the Nobel Laureate Ivan Bunin, 
who became a personal hero and a 
model for his own reconstruction. 
In America, he wanted to form 
himself in the image of Bunin, and 
freely admitted it. “I love Bunin as 
an artist, as a true master of words,” 
he wrote in a 1954 letter to the 
playwright Boris Zaitsev. On the 
face of things, they had similar 
stories—sons of the rural gentry, 
who got their starts at newspapers 
in Orel, in Bunin’s case, the local 
daily before the Nazi takeover. 
But the similarity ended there. 
During the war, Bunin had been 
thoroughly 
anti-Nazi. 
At 
his 
home on the French Riviera, 
where he lived throughout the 
German occupation, he shel­
tered Jewish friends and escaped 
Soviet prisoners of war. After the 
war he kept himself out of poli­
tics and kept politics out of his art. 
But Sokolov’s politics couldn’t be 
contained, and he preferred it that 
way. 

In New York, though, his 
career progressed. He impressed 
his superiors at Chekhov, devel­
oping a persona as a fastidious 
reader who could fall into a rage 
at basic grammatical mistakes. He 
befriended Alexandra Tolstoy, a 
lynchpin in the emigré world. He 
wrote editorials for major emigré 
papers, especially the New Russian 
Word. He joined the North Amer­
ican branch of the Coordinating 
Center for the Anti-Bolshevik 
Struggle (later rebranded as an 
NTS chapter) and soon became its 
chairman. He traveled abroad and 
spoke at political conferences. His 
time was in demand.    

In 1954, the prominent Colum­
bia historian Alexander Dallin 
invited him to write a monograph 
for the university’s Research Pro­
gram on the USSR. Sokolov 
accepted the offer. It was his 
chance to write the memoir he 
had been rehearsing in his head for 
over a decade. It was his chance to 
explain everything. He sat down 
with his diaries and scraps of pub­
lished writing he had from the 
war. He called the monograph 
Civilian Life Under German Occu­
pation, 1942-44.   

The project’s stated goal was 
to illustrate the “dilemma con­
fronting Russians in the occupied 
areas who opposed the Bolshe­
vik regime as well as the policy 
of the Germans, but could evolve 
no third force strong enough to 
serve as the vehicle for realizing 
their goals”—a kind of revisiting 
of what the YDN later would call 
Sokolov’s “house of intellectual 
bondage.” The piece was billed 
as journalism, and, for it, Sokolov 
claimed he had interviewed a 
crosshatch of Russians who lived 
through the occupation. The 
source material was meant to serve 
multiple prongs of a single argu­
ment: to prove that true Russians 
hated the Soviets more than they 
hated the Nazis, that many wel­
comed the Nazis as liberators, that 
a small minority of alien (read: 
Jewish) communists had enslaved 
Russia and had to be exorcised, 
and that that same small minority 
posed a more extreme threat than 
the Nazis—in essence, that his 
and others’ collaboration with 
the Nazis was a popular, morally 
sanctioned measure to defeat a 


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
world-historical conspiracy.  

In a ninety-page manuscript 
about the horror visited upon 
civilians 
during 
the 
Second 
World War, he mentions Jews 
four times—all in the context of 
what the Nazi party line was at 
his newspaper—and interviews 
none. His time at the newspaper 
he almost completely elides, aside 
from a scene at the town hall, in 
which 
German-appointed 
mayor of Orel tells him that the 
Nazis are essentially non-offen­
sive busybodies, and begs him 
to work for Rech as a holy obli­
gation to the city: “Help us, help 
us protect our people,” the mayor 
tells him. (While on trial decades 
later, Sokolov admitted the whole 
scene was fictional; when he met 
the mayor for the first time, he 
said, he had already been work­
ing at the paper.) Now out of his 
“house of intellectual bondage” 
and at Columbia, Sokolov was 
writing a more coded version of 
the Judeo-Bolshevik myth. In it, 
he cast the Nazis as banal manag­
ers who were half as brutal as the 
Soviets, whose genocide didn’t 
merit comment, and with whom 
collaboration was both righteous 
and non-ideological. 

Later that year, a Russian emi­
gré, who claimed to be an old 
acquaintance from Orel, read 
what Sokolov had written, and 
told the American Immigration 
and Naturalization Service (INS) 
that they had let a Nazi collabo­
rator slip into the country. INS 
brought Sokolov in for an inter­
view, and again he repeated the 
lines he knew by heart: he was an 
anti-communist, he never served 
in the Red Army or any army 
because of a heart condition, he 
had been a proofreader at a Rus­
sian language paper in occupied 
territory.          

After INS released Sokolov, the 
FBI took an interest in him. One 
FBI informant reported back, 
following a brief inquiry in the 
days after the INS interview, that 
Sokolov was a “burning anti-com­
munist.” Field reports declassi­
fied under the Nazi War Crimes 
Disclosure Act of 1998 show that 
this assessment was enough for the 
FBI to make contact with Sokolov 
in September 1954. They wanted 
him to give them information 
on another anti-communist emi­
gré whom Sokolov had met on 
a few occasions and whom the 
FBI suspected was susceptible to 
Soviet blackmail. In April 1959, 
Richard Bissell, Jr., the Deputy 
Director of Plans of the CIA, gave 
J. Edgar Hoover, the Director of 
the FBI, the all-clear to interview 
Sokolov about his willingness to 
inform, in an official capacity, on 
potential Soviet infiltration in his 
New York branch of NTS, whose 
global offices, at the time, received 
CIA backing.  

Here the trail gets somewhat 
murky. After the April 1959 mem­
orandum from Bissell, no other 
declassified documents appear in 
Sokolov’s file until 1980, soon 
after the Justice Department began 
its investigation of him, and even 
those have been redacted. Sokolov 
may have interviewed well, been 
on-boarded, 
and 
assigned 
an 
FBI informant ID soon after, 
accounting for the sudden drop-
off in internal docs mentioning 
his name. He may also have been 
insulted by the suggestion that his 
organization would ever harbor 
communists and refused the offer. 
But doing so would have raised 
suspicion about his own sympa­
thies—something Sokolov had a 
talent for avoiding—and having 
the FBI’s blessing would have alle­
viated the burden of proving his 
allegiances were genuine.


**Page number(s): 26-27**

Norman J.W. Goda, a scholar 
of the Holocaust at the University 
of Florida, was one of four histo­
rians commissioned by Congress 
in 2000 to examine the millions 
of pages of declassified documents 
on the U.S. intelligence appara­
tus’s recruitment of ex-Nazis, and 
write a report on their contents. 
He wrote that the 1959 memo­
randum may have been the begin­
ning of Sokolov’s stint as an FBI 
informant at Yale—at the time, 
a hotbed of intelligence recruit­
ment and Cold Warrior training. 
“Clearly the FBI protected him,” 
Goda told me. “I don’t know how 
he got his position at Yale. I pos­
ited that the FBI might have had 
some kind of role in that, but I 
really don’t know. And I said that 
perhaps the FBI was using him as 
some sort of source on Yale, but 
I really didn’t know that either. I 
was just sort of guessing. It didn’t 
make sense. He was a Russian Lit 
person, but he really didn’t have 
any credentials. It didn’t make 
sense to me why Yale would hire 
him.” 

FBI informant or not, Sokolov 
was hired by Yale for his politics 
and the kind of ideological train­
ing he could provide. He landed 
on the university’s radar thanks 
to Vladimir Petrov, a lecturer in 
the department who had taught 
Russian there since its inception. 
Petrov was the one who recom­
mended him for an interview in 
1959, something that required an 
almost irrational confidence in 
Sokolov’s political reliability. In 
the world of emigré anticommu­
nism, anyone could turn out to 
be a Soviet spy and any unlucky 
believer could be browbeaten by 
kompromat. Any recommenda­
tion, especially one for a position 
as a teacher of the next generation 
of American diplomats and spies, 
came at grave personal risk. 


--- Page 27 ---

 27
But Petrov had more than faith 
to go on: he had the same connec­
tions as Sokolov. When Sokolov 
was writing editorials for a Nazi 
paper tied to the Russian mon­
archist Andrey Vlasov, Petrov 
was arranging meetings between 
Vlasov and high-up Nazi gener­
als to coordinate military strategy 
for overthrowing the Bolsheviks. 
When Sokolov came to the U.S., 
he found employment through 
the Tolstoy Foundation, and so 
did Petrov. Both wrote memoirs 
about their experiences of com­
munism that doubled as salvos. 
And both contributed often to the 
emigré press. 

In 1959, there was a vacancy 
in the department. Petrov’s rec­
ommendation of Sokolov to fill it 
carried weight. William Cornyn, 
the chairman at the time, was 
out of town, and asked Schenker, 
the professor who would become 
Sokolov’s most vigorous advocate 
after others in the department 
repudiated him, to interview him 
in his place. They met in New 
York and talked credentials, pol­
itics, Europe, and family. They 
hit it off. Sokolov was hired that 
summer. 

Seven years into Sokolov’s 
tenure at Yale, he paid Petrov’s 
favor forward. In 1966, he recom­
mended the department interview 
Rurik Dudin, a close friend from 
the NTS and a broadcaster at the 
radio program Voice of America. 
He was hired shortly after. Dudin 
was another good teacher—char­
ismatic and funny. He had also 
been an ex-soldier in the youth 
division of a Nazi paramilitary 
made up of Russian volunteers. 
Edward Stankiewicz, a full pro­
fessor in the Russian department, 
survived the Nazi concentration 
camp Buchenwald. Emmanuel 
Sztein, a lecturer, lost fifty-two 
family members in Auschwitz. In 
the mid-ninteen-sixties, during 
a wave of state-sponsored antise­mi­
tic repressions in Poland, he 
was forced, while being tortured 
in prison, to share a cell with the 
Nazis’ former territorial governor 
of the region. At Yale, Dudin, 
Petrov, and Sokolov were the col­
leagues they had to make small 
talk with by the doors to the Hall 
of Graduate Studies. 

V.
In November 1985, Sokolov, 
now 72, sat in the Federal District 
Court for the District of Connecti­
cut, at the Post Office Building in 
Waterbury, flanked by an inter­
preter and his defense attorneys, 
Brian Gildea and Kevin Smith. 
The defense had been approved 
for a trial by judge, who in this 
case was something of a celebrity 
on the legal circuit: Thomas F. 
Murphy, formerly the chief pros­
ecutor on the Alger Hiss trial. No 
jury was present in Waterbury, 
and the room seemed somewhat 
empty for it. The government 
sent three lawyers from the Office 
of Special Investigations (OSI) at 
the Department of Justice—two 
trial attorneys, Bruce Einhorn 
and Aron Goldberg, and Joseph 
Lynch, an Assistant U.S. Attorney, 
ex-NYPD detective, and the lead 
prosecutor on the case. 

OSI began in the mid-1970s as a 
preliminary list of suspected Nazis 
living in the U.S. and evolved, 
by 1979, into a task force of over 
thirty lawyers, historians, forensic 
specialists, and translators with a 
$2.3 million budget. Its mission 
was to prosecute ex-Nazis in the 
U.S., not as war criminals, but for 
lying to immigration officials and 
illegally obtaining American citi­
zenship. A guilty sentence meant 
denaturalization 
deporta­
tion—not prison or death, like 
Nuremberg—and the script each 
complaint followed was similar. 
In Sokolov’s case, the government 
set out to prove that he had 1) 
concealed past advocacy of per­
secution to his interviewer at the 
Displaced Persons camp where he 
applied for a visa; 2) voluntarily 
assisted an enemy combatant of 
the U.S.; 3) misrepresented his 
background—the 
“proofreader” 
falsehood—to gain entry into the 
U.S.; and 4) procured citizenship 
despite a “lack of moral charac­
ter.” “It’s a high burden of proof 
to revoke citizenship—as it should 
be,” Allan Ryan, Director of OSI 
at the time the initial complaint 
was filed, told me. The Office filed 
suit in January 1982. 

Trials typically began with tes­
timony from Holocaust histori­
ans, explaining how one figure fit 
into the complex machinery of the 
Nazi genocide. Robert Herzstein, 
whose research later helped OSI 
uncover that Kurt Waldheim, for­
mer Secretary General of the UN 
and then the sitting President of 
Austria, had been a Nazi paramili­
tary soldier, testified at the start of 
Sokolov’s trial. Sokolov’s role in 
the Nazi apparatus was to ensure 
that it grew, Herzstein said, to 
wage “ideological and psycholog­
ical warfare” on its behalf, and to 
Together, Sokolov’s words constituted a 
worldview he could justify and weapon­
ize—and later deny he ever had.



**Title: The Sokolov Case**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 28
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
evangelize Nazi ideas to popula­
tions that had no choice but to 
hear them. Tapping the talent of 
people like him was essential to 
the Nazis’ war effort. 
Now OSI had to prove Sokolov 
was eager for the call. So they 
went to Moscow. There, under 
Soviet supervision, OSI took 
depositions and dug through 
thousands of Gestapo files the Red 
Army had seized after the fall of 
Berlin, translated and forensically 
authenticated them, and cross-
checked any names they found 
against U.S. immigration records. 
If they got a positive ID, they 
opened an investigation.     
For Sokolov, they found a 
Nazi background check dated 
July 8, 1943, just before the Ger­
mans evacuated Orel, which read: 
“Enthusiastic 
co-worker 
and 
trustworthy propaganda orator. 
As a consequence of his marked 
anti-Bolshevist attitude is slightly 
inclined to tendentious state­
ments.” There it was, in hand­
written German: enthusiastic.   
The 
defense 
denied 
every 
charge OSI laid: that Sokolov 
knew about the Nazi genocide, 
that he had volunteered his ser­
vices out of anything other than 
desperation or anticommunism, 
that he had written the antise­
mitic portions of the articles, that 
he had downplayed his involve­
ment with the newspaper when 
interviewing with Immigration. 
The logic was knotted, but their 
point was to bypass the mounting 
archival indictment of his charac­
ter with a human story. 
This story followed a string 
of clichés. At the paper, he said 
he was “under orders” or doing 
what he could to support his 
family. Through contacts at the 
Expert Commission of Russians 
Abroad—a monarchist organi­
zation working to preserve the 
bones of dead Romanovs—the 
defense managed to track down 
Clifford Smith, a former employee 
of the Displaced Persons Commis­
sion, to tell the court that Sokolov, 
whom he hadn’t met until several 
days before the trial, was actually a 
“forced laborer” in Nazi-occupied 
Orel, and that “as a forced laborer 
he has no control over what he 
says.” In cross-ex, Joe Lynch asked 
Smith point-blank: “Are you tell­
ing me that you have agreed to 
testify on behalf of a man about 
whom you know absolutely noth­
ing?” Smith replied, “Yes, sir.”
rest 
of 
the 
amounted to a total denial of any 
responsibility for the words that 
appeared under Sokolov’s byline. 
Sokolov 
himself 
testified 
that 
Mikhail Oktan, whom the Nazis 
eventually made editor-in-chief, 
“demanded that we, the employ­
ees, write against Jews and if we 
wrote different [sic] he took them 
and changed them, and sometimes 
I didn't recognize my own arti­
cles. I didn't recognize them.” 
Sokolov’s lead attorney, Brian 
Gildea, was familiar with these 
sorts of cases. From 1977 to 1984, 
he had defended, eventually before 
the Supreme Court, Feodor Fedo­
renko, an ex-guard at Treblinka, 
the extermination camp where 
the Nazis killed nearly a million 
Jews. Gildea got into the busi­
ness of defending Nazis on trial 
for deportation while working 
the immigration circuit at a New 
Haven law firm. He told me that 
he had always been fascinated by 
the Second World War. The work 
let him revisit fragments of it in 
the flesh. 
Throughout 
Sokolov’s 
trial, 
Gildea was meeting regularly 
with William F. Buckley, Jr., the 
face of patrician Yale and the 
founder of the National Review. 
Buckley had become obsessed 
with the Sokolov case as a kind of 
frontline in the Cold War, calling 
Gildea at least a dozen times over 
several years, dining with him in 
New York, and writing a personal 
letter to President Ronald Rea­
gan, pleading for his intervention 
in the case. The letter landed on 
the desk of future Chief Justice of 
the Supreme Court John Roberts, 
who at the time was working as 
an assistant to the Attorney Gen­
eral. In the letter, Buckley men­
tions that Strobe Talbott, a former 
student of Sokolov’s who later 
became Deputy Secretary of State 
under Bill Clinton, had vouched 
for him and called the scandal a 
KGB ploy. 
Reagan stayed out of it and the 
DOJ let the investigation pro­
ceed. In 1986, the court revoked 
Sokolov’s citizenship; a year later, 
he and Gildea took the case to 
the Court of Appeals. And when 
the Court upheld the first verdict, 
Gildea pressed for an encore at 
the Supreme Court. But Sokolov 
didn’t want the trouble. Instead, 
he wrote a letter to a Russian 
Orthodox monk at a monastery 
in Montreal, who agreed to give 
him sanctuary, and fled the coun­
try. Sokolov died there five years 
later, outliving the Soviet Union 
by a month. 


In 1966, long before his flight 
to Canada, still a fixture of Yale’s 
Russian 
Department, 
Vladimir 
Sokolov attended the thirty-fourth 
International Congress of the 
P.E.N Writers’ Club. The scene 
must have been poignant to him, 
in a way. He was in the import­
ant room at the literary congress, 
where he always wanted to be. 
But he received no awards. He 
wasn’t a star. He was spectating. 
The fiction he wrote had never 
been especially well-received. It 
was never even translated into 
English. 
But even as his career as a novel­
ist was going, and went, nowhere, 
Sokolov had invented a powerful 
literary character, creating and 
recreating a fictional version of 
himself that was the perfect piece 
of propaganda: a falsehood so 
total and so flexible that it held for 
decades, across borders and gov­
ernments, among Nazi officers, 
FBI agents, and members of the 
Yale faculty. The character was 
a Russian patriot, impressed into 
service by an occupying power; 
he had survived the war by a mir­
acle, provided for his family, and 
worked hard to establish himself 
in America as a man of letters; he 
had convictions, stuck to them, 
and championed the oppressed; 
he was kind to students, patient in 
class, modest to a fault; he led a 
quiet life in suburban Connecti­
cut.
This character was believable, 
sympathetic even. But he was not 
Vladimir Sokolov. Sokolov was a 
Nazi.  
Zachary Groz is a sophomore
in Jonathan Edwards College 
and Co-Editor-in-Chief of 
The New Journal.


<br>

**Title: BÁT QUÁI (BAGUA MIRROR)**
**Author: John Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 29**

POEM
BÁT QUÁI (BAGUA MIRROR)
BY JOHN NGUYEN 
To my many siblings, the alive and lingering. 
He cooks sticky rice cakes, brings orchids
and forsythias in from the car, hangs that
octagonal golden charm on the front door
to ward off evil spirits—all in preparation
for the Lunar New Year. The house is clean,
though only in the living room. That’s okay,
guests won’t enter the others. While his baby
wails and he lulls her with shhh, the TV plays
in a tongue he has yet to tame: A 55-year-old
woman was punched to the ground in Chinatown.
A poppy bloomed on her nose—another bullet
point on a list longer than all rivers of a motherland.
It’s supposed to protect us, he tells his kids, who stare
at the just-hung, teal-eyed talisman. Then fireworks fly.                         Bang.
John Nguyen is a sophomore
in Davenport College.



**Title: Edgewood and Edgerton Parks**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**

EDGEWOOD AND EDGERTON PARKS
BY ELI MENNERICK 
East Rock and West Rock, the twin deities of New Haven parks, 
each have an attendant god. Just west of East Rock, across Whitney 
Avenue, is a park called Edgerton; four blocks south of West Rock is 
one named Edgewood. Edgerton is small, squarish, and manicured. 
It has tall stone walls, a greenhouse, a conservatory of exotic plants, a 
terrace with a fountain, and chickens. Eli Whitney’s niece once lived 
on the grounds in a mansion called Ivy Nook. Edgewood, mean­
while, is lanky, and sometimes overgrown. There is a skate park, and a 
dog park, and a duck pond. There are nice trails, particularly along the 
tiny, ruler-straight West River. Once, I saw the river teeming with 
hundreds of alewives, which swim from Long Island Sound into the 
West River to spawn. The water was low, and the fish flopped on top 
of one another, straining upstream.



**Title: Left-Wing at Yale Law**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

An emerging legal movement challenges a 
long-held consensus.
BY JACK MCCORDICK
LEFT-WING AT YALE LAW
FEATURE
Pictured, a window in the courtyard of the Yale Law School. Photo by Alexandra Galloway. 
 30



**Title: The Yale Law School Class That Helped Invent a Movement**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I.
Nearly every student and pro­
fessor at Yale Law School assumed 
that fellow Yalie Hillary Clinton 
LAW ’73 would coast to an easy 
electoral victory in the fall of 
2016. In the weeks and months 
following Trump’s surprise upset, 
feverish conversations about what 
the election meant for the future 
of the country—and especially for 
the future of the legal profession—
spilled out of student apartments, 
bars, and other gathering spaces 
around New Haven, into lecture 
halls and seminar rooms at the law 
school, and back out again. 


Yale, like much of America, 
was in a state of shock. 


The election spurred a wave 
of student organizing at the 
law school, much of it focused 
on resisting the immediate 
threat Trump posed to vul­
nerable communities around 
the world. That January, for 
example, a group of law stu­
dents in Yale’s Worker and 
Immigrant 
Rights 
Advo­
cacy Clinic (WIRAC) made 
national headlines for its role 
in challenging Trump’s Mus­
lim ban and staunching the 
flow of deportations. But for a 
smaller group of left-wing law 
students (many of whom were also 
involved in the immediate wave 
of organizing), Trump’s election 
demanded a longer view of things. 
“The feeling was that while 
Trump would be a four or eight-
year President, Trumpism was a 
longer-term phenomenon, and 
the need to have a very thoughtful 
and coherent response to that—and 
not just a political response but a 
new intellectual framework for 
rethinking the law and rethinking 
policy—seemed extremely urgent 
at that time,” remembers Adam 
Bradlow LAW ’18. 


The beginnings of that frame­
work came together ten days 
after the election, at eight in the 
morning on Friday, November 
18. Professor Amy Kapczynski, 
whose work focuses on intellec­
tual property and health justice, 
convened a group of five students 
in her office. The students—Nick 
Werle LAW ’17, Conor Reynolds 
LAW ’17, Lina Khan LAW ’17, 
Solange Hilfinger-Pardo LAW 
’17, along with Bradlow—knew 
Kapczynksi and each other well 
from previous political and aca­
demic work at the law school. In 
the weeks before the election, a 
few of them had been planning a 
future conference on how to push 
a would-be Clinton administra­
tion to the left on economic pol­
icy.


In the meeting at Kapczynski’s 
office, the group talked about how 
Clinton’s loss represented what 
Werle described as “the failure of 
the Democratic Party and the left 
more broadly” to appeal to work­
ing people after decades of wage 
stagnation and spiralling inequal­
ity. They talked about the rise of 
the conservative legal movement, 
which had steadily shifted many 
But for a smaller group 
of left-wing law students 
(many of whom were also 
involved in the immedi­
ate wave of organizing), 
Trump’s election demand­
ed a longer view of things.
legal fields to the right over the 
past half-century. And they talked 
about how they felt their legal edu­
cation had left them ill-equipped 
to grapple with the longstanding 
social, political, and legal struc­
tures—from the evaporation of 
union jobs, to the corporate cap­
ture of the political process, to the 
persistence of racialized violence 
against nonwhite people—that had 
made Trump an attractive candi­
date to tens of millions of Amer­
icans. 


At the core of the group’s frus­
tration was their feeling that their 
legal 
training 
consistently 
separated economic questions 
(how markets are structured 
and 
resources 
distributed) 
from political ones (who 
holds power and how they 
wield it). Trump—the lout­
ish heir to a real estate for­
tune who exploited America’s 
business-friendly bankruptcy 
laws, defrauded its threadbare 
tax code, and stiffed undocu­
mented workers on his way 
to the presidency—perfectly 
encapsulated their interest in 
the intertwining of economic 
and political power, and the 
role of law in mediating both. 


Toward the end of the 
meeting, Kapczynski asked the 
group how she could be of use to 
them. After some discussion, they 
decided they wanted to create an 
entirely new course—it was their 
education, after all, that they’d 
found wanting. Werle suggested 
they frame the class around the 
concept of “political economy,” 
an intellectual tradition with roots 
in the eighteenth and nineteeth 
centuries that interrogates how 
the economy is shaped by poli­
tics and vice versa. For “political 
economists” in the classical sense, 
like Karl Marx and Adam Smith, 
the economy is inherently politi­
SEPTEMBER 2021
 31


--- Page 32 ---

DESIGN BY ALEXANDRA GALLOWAY

cal, both in its origins and in its 
effects. It was exactly the kind of 
framework the group was look­
ing for. 


And thus the “Law and Politi­
cal Economy” seminar was born. 
“I was super excited,” said 
Werle, who called his dad right 
after the meeting to tell him 
how, even in its early days, he felt 
the idea of a course on political 
economy “had the potential to 
be far-reaching.” Reflecting on 
that moment—and everything 
that followed it—almost five 
years later, Werle said the seed 
he helped plant in Kapczyn­
ski’s office that November had 
blossomed 
into 
something 
greater than he ever could 
have imagined. 


II.
On the evening of Janu­
ary 19th—the first day of the 
class—Kapczynski asked each 
of the seventeen students, 
most of whom were enter­
ing their final semester of law 
school, to explain why they’d 
decided to join. 


“The sort of answers peo­
ple were giving were that 
they wanted to understand 
where legal thought had fallen 
short, and that they wanted to 
be the generation that makes 
a difference, not only in terms 
of providing a framework that 
accounts for political economy 
in legal thought but also in terms 
of advancing policies and prior­
ities that addressed some of the 
glaring injustices that we were 
seeing in our country,” Bradlow 
remembers. 


That the students had a broadly 
similar set of reasons for taking 
the class was not a coincidence. 
Like the smaller group that ini­
tially 
approached 
Kapczynski, 
the students in “Law and Political 
Economy” had frequently crossed 
paths at Yale. 


Two years earlier, several of the 
students in the class ran a success­
ful left-wing campaign in a con­
tentious election for the board of 
Yale’s American Constitutional 
Society chapter, which represents 
its 
progressive 
law 
students. 
Their campaign had criticized the 
ostensibly progressive society’s 
careerism and chummy relation­
ship with the Democratic Party 
establishment. Will Bloom LAW 
’17 sardonically remembered hav­
ing run on “a platform of ‘We’re 
not going to bring Tim fucking 
Geithner’”—Obama’s 
Treasury 
secretary, who had orchestrated 
the bank bailouts during the Great 
Recession—“‘to Yale Law School 
anymore.’” 


Many 
were 
also 
involved in WIRAC and other 
clinical work, and a few had been 
part of reading groups on Law 
and Neoliberalism and Michel 
Foucault’s The Birth of Biopolitics. 
A handful had also been involved 
in supporting Yale’s grad stu­
dent union campaign, which had 
reached a fever pitch that August 
after the National Labor Relations 
Board ruled that graduate students 
at private universities had the 
right to unionize. The group—and 
especially its 3L students, whose 
time at Yale was bookended by 
the 2014 police killing of Michael 
Brown and the insurgent cam­
paigns of Donald Trump and 
Bernie Sanders—represented the 
“cohering of some left-wing force 
in the law school,” said Bloom. 


They “wanted something beyond 
the bounds of what you can usu­
ally find” in the gilded halls of 127 
Wall Street. 


“We all kind of agreed that 
the system was broken, that 
the ownership class had out­
sized power in our political 
system and that was influ­
encing the way the law was 
structured,” Bloom added. 


“Having all of that out of the 
way as the set terms of dis­
cussion meant that we could 
actually have very fascinating 
conversations.” 


From 
mid-January 
to 
early April, the group met 
each Thursday evening in 
a cramped seminar room 
in the basement of the law 
school. Sometimes they’d go 
out together for drinks after. 


The late meeting time, combined 
with the subject matter and the 
fact that much of the syllabus 
came together in real time, lent 
each session a frisson of subver­
sive energy. “It almost felt under­
ground,” Reynolds recalled. “Or 
as far underground as you can be 
in Yale Law School’s fancy build­
ing.” 


They began the course by read­
ing Karl Polanyi, a twentieth cen­
tury Hungarian political econ­
omist whose most well-known 
argument—that the economy is 
not a self-regulating machine that 
“The late meeting time, 
combined with the subject 
matter and the fact that 
much of the syllabus came 
together in real time, lent 
each session a frisson of 
subversive energy.
 32
THE  NEW  JOURNAL


--- Page 33 ---

follows its own rules, but rather is 
embedded in non-economic insti­
tutions, including the legal sys­
tem—became “an essential orga­
nizing principle” of the course, 
Werle said. The next weeks cov­
ered constitutional law, racial jus­
tice, trade, incarceration, labor, 
environmental law, antitrust, and 
human rights, with each class 
focused on how the specific area 
of law could be moved in a more 
democratic and egalitarian direc­
tion. Most weeks, one or two stu­
dents volunteered to lead the class 
discussion. (Just over four years 
after Lina Khan led the course’s 
session on anti-trust law, she was 
named by President Biden as 
chairwoman of the Federal Trade 
Commission, a decision hailed by 
progressives as auguring a new era 
of trust-busting.)


“It was the best class I’ve taken 
in my life—best in law school, best 
period,” reflected Brian Highsmith 
LAW ’17. “And I think we all felt 
that there was an urgency there, 
where this perspective is so sorely 
missing from our law school cur­
ricula. We all realized toward the 
end of the class that there was 
something here that needed to be 
explored further, but we didn’t 
know exactly what form that 
would take.”


III.
As spring gave way to summer, 
the group gathered one last time 
around a seminar table to figure 
out how they might continue the 
momentum the course had gen­
erated. They considered initiat­
ing LPE-inspired service projects 
or starting a regular LPE reading 
group, but both proposals felt 
too insular. They wanted to see 
whether their ideas would reso­
nate outside of Yale’s cloistered 
walls. Ultimately, they settled on 
continuing the course’s mission 
in what Kate Redburn LAW ’19 
called “the most Web 2.0 way 
ever.” They started a blog. 


As the class scattered across the 
country for summer internships, 
clerkships, and first jobs, Redburn, 
Werle, and Bradlow took the 
lead. Kapczynski invited David 
Grewal LAW ’02 and Jed Purdy 
LAW ’01, then law professors at 
Yale and Duke, respectively, to 
be co-founders of the blog (they’d 
both been guest speakers in the 
class). Building the blog became a 
particular obsession for Redburn, 
who suffered a herniated disc at 
the end of the summer, causing 
them to withdraw from Yale for 
the semester. “I was just lying on 
my back with this contraption that 
had my iPad hanging over my 
face,” Redburn said. “Working on 
the blog was the only thing pre­
venting me from losing my mind.” 


In October, the blog made its 
debut with a quasi-manifesto, 
written by Purdy, Grewal, and 
Kapczynski. “This is a time of cri­
ses,” the co-founders began, sit­
uating the blog in the context of 
accelerating inequality and wealth 
concentration, the climate emer­
gency, and the rise of authoritar­
ian political movements around 
the world. But it was also, they 
noted, a time of enhanced pos­
sibility. A new generation of left 
movements, from Occupy and the 
Fight for 15 to the Movement for 
Black Lives and #Not1More, was 
“challenging economic inequality, 
eroded democracy, the carceral 
state, and racism, sexism, and 
other forms of discrimination with 
a force that was unthinkable just a 
few years ago.” 


Their choice to frame the blog 
in generational terms wasn’t a 
coincidence. Purdy, Grewal, and 
Kapczynski were around the same 
age and all had gone to Yale Law 
at the turn of the millennium. 
Their political consciences were 
forged in the miasma of what 
Purdy called “the Long 1990s,” 
a moment when the Clinton 
administration’s embrace of aus­
terity gave a bipartisan gloss to 
the Thatcherite dictum that “there 
is no alternative” to neoliberal 
capitalism. Nearly everywhere 
you looked, Purdy reflected, you 
encountered “the idea that mar­
kets were not only the most viable 
form of social organization but 
that they were basically compat­
ible with democracy—and indeed 
that liberal democracy basically 
meant market democracy... and 
that anything that would stand in 
the way of this trajectory was sort 
of churlish or reactionary or irra­
tional.” By the time they arrived 
in law school, transformative 
change no longer appeared on the 
horizon.  


The blog signaled that things 
changing. 
Kapczynski 
remembered its early days as 
shaped by an “ethos of students 
and faculty thinking together, 
and trying to figure out what 
the old frameworks we as faculty 
were taught as students and come 
to from our political culture, 
and what’s wrong and missing.” 


Among many other subjects, they 
published pieces that first year 
on the anti-capitalist racial jus­
tice politics of the Movement for 
Black Lives, the structural vio­
lence of Uber and Lyft, and the 
political economy of freedom of 
speech.  


“I was just blown away that 
LPE existed,” said John Whitlow, 
a law professor at CUNY and 
former tenant lawyer who started 
writing for the blog that spring. 
“As soon as I saw it, I recognized 
that it filled a lack that had existed 
in the legal academy that was 
much more profound than I had 
 33



**The Long March Through the Institutions: How a New Generation of Law Students Is Taking on Law and Economics**
**Author: [Not specified in text]**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
even realized until I came across 
it.” 

In the spring of 2019, after 
nearly two years of unpaid vol­
unteer work, mostly by students, 
the blog’s faculty co-directors 
secured a $610,000 grant from the 
Hewlett Foundation through its 
Beyond Neoliberalism initiative. 
The grant allowed the professors 
to officially launch the “Law and 
Political Economy Project” and 
to hire Corinne Blalock, who had 
just finished a JD/PhD at Duke, as 
its Executive Director. 

Like Whitlow, Blalock was 
shocked by the sheer exis­
tence of the project. Back in 
2015, she’d written a journal 
article lamenting the decline 
of left-wing legal theory in 
the academy. The heyday 
of Critical Legal Studies, a 
leftist legal movement that 
originated at Harvard Law 
School and flourished in the 
nineteen-seventies and nine­
teen-eighties, was long past. 
Gone were the days when law 
professors were proclaiming 
themselves “guerilla warriors” 
and urging their students to 
seek out employment at big 
corporations just to sabotage 
them from within. Blalock 
remembers being laughed at for 
ending her article with a “sort of 
cheesy call to arms” for a reinvig­
orated left legal movement. “The 
idea of a leftist legal movement, 
even in 2015, was unthinkable,” 
she said.

Yet here Blalock was four years 
later, at the center of just that 
kind of movement. Demand for 
Kapczynski’s seminar swelled to 
nearly a hundred students—just 
under a sixth of the entire law 
school. Suddenly, LPE student 
groups were popping up at law 
schools all around the country 
(they currently number over a 
dozen). The blog’s readership 
continued to grow, and the proj­
ect began holding events that 
drew scholars from every legal 
field and other academic dis­
ciplines. “We grew way faster 
than we expected,” Blalock said, 
reflecting on the beginning of her 
tenure. “LPE really took off.”

But Blalock warned against 
seeing the early growth of LPE as 
the sign of a broader bellwether. 
“Sometimes I feel like we’re a 
little bit of a Potemkin Village,” 
she said. “The project is only two 
years old.” If LPE represented an 
American law school version of 
German radical Rudi Dutschke’s 
famous 1968 call for leftists 
to embark on a “long march 
through the institutions,” then it 
was just taking its first baby steps. 
Plus, Blalock added, “You have 
to acknowledge what we’re up 
against.” 

IV.

On September 3, 2014—his 
very first day of law school, two-
and-a-half years before he’d find 
his way into the first LPE semi­
nar—Will Bloom sat in his 1L 
contracts course and listened to 
his professor’s disquisition on 
Lucy v. Zehmer. A 1954 Vir­
ginia Supreme Court decision 
commonly taught in first-year 
contracts courses, the case con­
sidered whether a farmer who 
had drunkenly sold his farm 
could renege on the agreement 
(the court ruled against the 
farmer). Midway through the 
class, Bloom’s professor went on 
a “weird economics tangent,” 
arguing that if the farmer valued 
his property more than the per­
son he sold it to, he could have 
just bought it back. 

“I remember raising my 
hand and asking, ‘What if the 
farmer doesn’t have enough 
money to buy it back?’ and 
the professor was like, ‘Well, 
we just don’t think about 
that because then the theory 
won’t work,’ and then stared 
at me and waited for me to 
accept that,” Bloom said. “It 
was a moment when I real­
ized, Oh, this is all made up. 
These people just have some 
wild fucking ideas that don’t 
really have any bearing on the 
world—except they do have a 
bearing on the world because 
they’re part of a decades long polit­
ical project to impose them.” 

Central to that political proj­
ect is the rise of “law and eco­
nomics,” an approach to juris­
prudence that attempts to apply 
the principles of neoclassical 
economics to the study of law. 
In the early nineteen-seventies, 
law and economics was the mar­
ginal remit of a group of liber­
tarian eccentrics, most of whom 
were based out of the Univer­
sity of Chicago. Keynesian eco­
nomics and legal liberalism had 
won the day following the New


--- Page 35 ---

Deal, and few in the legal acad­
emy took Chicago’s libertarians 
seriously. Yet over the com­
ing decades, law and econom­
ics utterly transformed the legal 
academy, thanks in large part 
to the dogged efforts (and deep 
pockets) of one man: John Olin. 

A chemical and munitions 
magnate, Olin was radicalized 
after a group of militant black 
students took over the student 
union at Cornell, his alma mater, 
during parents weekend in 1969. 
Following 
the 
uprising—the 
first-ever armed occupation of a 
building on an American cam­
pus—Olin vowed to use his for­
tune to “to help to preserve the 
system which made its accumu­
lation possible.”

The Olin Foundation went 
on to spend $68 million under­
writing the growth of law and 
economics, dishing out millions 
of dollars to Harvard, Yale, and 
other elite law schools to estab­
lish law and economics programs 
and hire law and economics 
scholars (the investigative jour­
nalist Jane Meyer dubbed Olin an 
“academic Johnny Appleseed”). 
Over more than two decades, 
Yale received nearly $20 million 
from the foundation, much of 
it dedicated to establishing the 
John M. Olin Center for Law, 
Economics and Public Policy. 

“We had a really large invest­
ment in ideology that had no 
match on the left or even among 
centrist liberals,” said Frank 
Pasquale LAW ’01, a professor 
at Brooklyn School of Law and a 
frequent writer for the blog.

By 2000, the foundation con­
sidered its donations to Yale to 
be an “excellent investment” and 
“one of our most influential Law 
and Economics grants.” As early 
as 1993, Yale Law Professor (and 
future dean) Anthony Kronman 
LAW ’75 called the rapid expan­
sion of law and economics the 
“most important change in Amer­
ican legal education in the last 
twenty-five years.” Internal Olin 
Foundation documents praised 
Kronman for “doing all he can to 
assure the permanency of the pro­
gram.” In 2008, political scientist 
Steven Teles crowned law and 
economics “the most successful 
intellectual movement in the law 
of the past thirty years, having 
rapidly moved from insurgency 
to hegemony.” Olin’s dream of 
yanking law schools to the right 
had come true. As James Piereson, 
the foundation’s long-time direc­
tor, bragged to Teles, “Law and 
economics is neutral, but it has a 
philosophical thrust in the direc­
tion of free markets and limited 
government. That is, like many 
disciplines, it seems neutral but 
isn’t.”

For 
Ted 
Hamilton, 
who 
entered Harvard Law School in 
2013 and is currently a PhD stu­
dent in comparative literature at 
Yale, the influence of law and 
economics could be captured in 
one mantra. “The most repeated 
word in my first year law curric­
ulum was not justice, or liberty or 
order,” Hamilton wrote in a 2014 
essay reflecting on his first year at 
Harvard Law School. “It was effi­
ciency.”

Indeed, 
“efficiency” 
is 
watchword of law and economics, 
its guiding shibboleth. At its core, 
law and economics holds that the 
law should be oriented above all 
to achieving economic efficiency, 
with “efficiency” largely defined 
as the pursuit of “wealth maximi­
zation,” in which goods and ser­
vices flow to those with the larg­
est “willingness to pay” for them. 
(It was a version of this argu­
ment that Bloom’s contracts 
professor made on his first day 
of class.) The rise of law and 
economics firmly cemented this 
form of legal reasoning as the 
default framework in “private 
law” courses—such as property, 
torts, 
and 
contracts—which 
are frontloaded in Yale’s legal 
curriculum. As Bradlow put 
it, “The dominant legal frame­
work made you ask the ques­
tion, ‘Given the current set of 
power relations, what is the 
most efficient way to distribute 
resources?’ It wasn’t asking the 
prior question, ‘Is the current 
distribution of power in our 
country just, and how is the 
law structuring the distribution 
of that power?’” 

Part of why law and econom­
ics methods took such a power­
ful hold in law schools was that 
little else in legal teaching or 
scholarship offered much in the 
way of a countervailing force. 
During the same decades that 
saw the rise of law and eco­
nomics in private law, public 
law fields such as constitutional 
law—which were dominated 
by liberals for most of the 20th 
century—almost 
universally 
retreated from engaging ques­
tions of economic power and 
structural inequality. “In public 
law classes, the common sense 
is still the same [as in private 
law classes],” added Blalock. 
“You don’t talk about class 
disparities, and you don’t talk 
about power.”

By the turn of the twen­
ty-first century, legal fields 
considered “about the econ­
omy” had little to nothing to 
say about political life, while 
those considered fundamen­
tally political lacked a robust 


--- Page 36 ---

account of economic power. For 
anyone in law schools interested 
in crossing those boundaries (or 
in pointing out their artificiality 
to begin with), the prospect of 
even coming across intelligibly to 
professors and peers was dim.  
“There was something about 
the dominant vocabularies that 
sort of baffled and almost numbed 
any attempt to get hold of the 
most important questions,” said 
Purdy of his time as a student at 
Yale. “It always felt as if to raise 
issues of distribution, of power, 
of the role and nature of the state, 
was to commit a kind of jejune 
mistake.” Sam Aber ’17 LAW ’22, 
a current student editor of the 
blog, echoed Purdy’s feelings. “It 
can feel like this huge narrowing 
in what you’re allowed to say, in 
what kind of arguments are per­
missible or even make sense.” 

For most Yale Law students, 
that narrowing came to feel natu­
ral. At the end of his 1L contracts 
class in 2014, Manfredi remem­
bers a group discussion where he 
explained a simple hypothetical, 
in which a maximally “efficient” 
world—one with the “largest pos­
sible pie,” as economists are wont 
to say—entailed extreme satisfac­
tion for a minority of people and 
mass suffering for the rest, whereas 
a "less efficient" world might have 
substantial satisfaction, but for all 
people. “One of my classmates 
turned around and said, ‘Oh my 
god. I’d never thought about it 
like that. I thought that we were 
supposed to think in terms of 
efficiency because that was just 
the goal of law and that it would 
always 
make 
things 
better,’” 
Manfredi remembered. “And I 
just thought to myself, This is 
how Yale Law School is teaching 
people to think: they tell you to 
accept "maximizing efficiency" as an 
end in and of itself—and that idea 
becomes unquestioned common sense 
for people who are going to go on to 
be extremely powerful, who will go 
on to run elite institutions someday.”  

Indeed, Manfredi’s classmate 
was far from an outlier. A 2015 
study co-authored by Yale Law 
professor Daniel Markovitz ’91 
LAW ’00 surveyed Yale Law stu­
dents and found that nearly 80 
percent displayed a preference for 
“efficiency” over “equality,” while 
less than half of average Ameri­
cans exhibited the same prefer­
ence. It also found that the Yale 
Law students were significantly 
more likely to display “selfish” 
economic preferences than their 
non-elite peers. Such a commit­
ment to efficiency—which Mar­
kovits and one co-author called 
“overwhelming, indeed almost 
eccentric”—was especially strik­
ing given the Yale students’ stated 
political affiliations: over 90 per­
cent identified as Democrats. 

Over half a century, the meth­
ods, assumptions, and values of 
law and economics so deeply 
permeated legal scholarship and 
pedagogy that they faded into the 
background, enshrining a set of 
market fundamentalist orienta­
tions as just part of what it means 
to “think like a lawyer.” “What 
the common sense makes unsay­
able is just as powerful as being 
asked to, for example, determine 
if this or that regulation is effi­
cient,” Blalock said. “It’s incred­
ibly hard to argue with precisely 
because it’s invisible.”

V.

Over the first weekend of 
April 2020, the LPE Project was 
scheduled to bring over a hun­
dred scholars and students to 
New Haven for its first major 
conference, with dozens of pan­
els on subjects ranging from the 
international law of money to 
the political economy of moth­
erhood. While Covid-19 spoiled 
the conference plans, the pan­
demic and the many disruptions 
it precipitated also provided a 
near-daily confirmation of LPE’s 
foundational intuition: that poli­
tics and the economy cannot be 
separated.  

Early 
pandemic 
discourses 
around “essential workers”—dis­
proportionately women and peo­
ple of color, chronically underpaid 
and precariously employed—illus­
trated the centrality of racialized 
and gendered subordination to the 
structure of the American econ­
omy. As the pandemic plunged 
the country into a recession, the 
federal government’s spending 
on aid exploded neoliberal bud­
get orthodoxy, even as most of 
the stimulus ended up lining the 
pockets of wealthy investors. The 
summer’s protests drew renewed 
attention to the links between 
municipal 
finance, 
residential 
segregation, local economies, and 
chronic disinvestment in Black 
communities. 

And 
envi­
ronmental backdrop to it all—a 
swelling tide of climate disasters, 
from the Australian bushfires to 
the heat waves and hurricanes 
of this summer—offered a potent 
reminder of what climate activ­
ists have been saying for decades: 
that anything less than a funda­
mental transformation of our cur­
rent economic and political order 
courts utter catastrophe. 

Whether the Law and Polit­
ical Economy movement will 
push legal scholarship and prac­
tice to live up to the exigencies 
of this moment is ultimately an 
open question. In many ways, the 
movement faces an uphill bat­



**Title: Left-Leaning Law**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tle. “Starting something new at a 
law school, especially an elite law 
school, is really hard, especially 
when it’s something that goes 
against the grain of what people 
are typically taught and is not 
particularly well-funded by out­
side organizations,” said Sarang 
Shah, a former student editor of 
the blog who founded Berke­
ley’s LPE student group in 2019. 
Right-wing 
potshots, 
centrist 
co-option, or simply running out 
of steam (or money) are all real 
possibilities. 

“You know how you have 
rocks in a river, and if you’re 
right behind them you can avoid 
the power of the current? That’s 
kind of what LPE feels like,” 
added Conor Reynolds, who took 
part in the first LPE seminar and 
returned to Yale to teach envi­
ronmental law after he graduated. 

What the movement does have 
in its favor is the nascent hunger 
of a younger generation to get 
a grip on the crisis-riven world 
it was born into, and to find the 
terms and the means to remake 
it. As Redburn put it, “We’re the 
children of the total failure of aus­
terity politics. We’re the Occu­
piers and later the Black Lives 
Matter people, where our theory 
of change involves the wisdom of 
social movements and mass orga­
nization and not elite technoc­
racy, which we’ve experienced as 
a total failure.”

“What’s really happening is 
that you have a millennial and 
post-millennial generation that 
just doesn’t believe what their law 
professors tell them anymore,” 
said Sam Moyn, a law professor at 
Yale and contributor to the blog. 
“We’re talking about a limited 
number of people, but there’s a 
group of them in a lot of places 
and it’s big enough to matter.” 

While the last decade of left 
social movement ferment has 
yielded no shortage of incisive 
critiques of the present order of 
things, the pressing question, 
according to Purdy, is “what is 
going to get built that lasts?” 

“Critical work is just not nearly 
enough, and rejectionist stances 
have very limited scope,” he said. 
“Constructive 
vocabularies—
which is not to say conciliatory 
or ‘nice’ vocabularies, but vocab­
ularies which are worldmak­
ing and institution-making—are 
really important.” In its own way, 
the law and economics vocabu­
lary that LPE so stridently resists 
has been profoundly construc­
tive—we’re still living in the world 
it helped make. Much hinges on 
whether LPE will be able to make 
a new one.
Jack McCordick is a senior in 
Branford College.


**Title: MOT**
**Author: Aaron Magloire**

Death is a day trip. I drowned myself 
in the river and then got bored of it. 
One can only spend so long small 
talking with murk. My dreams, my firm 
works, my honey and bread. It is time to 
dine again. Enough fucking around. 
Watch now, as I emerge fully dry from the water 
that could not stomach me, my mouth ablaze 
with aphids and blue moths, 
my fresh deerskin dress. There is no 
myth here. Only the fact of my body 
warming as it walks forth 
into the clearing. Tell me again, 
the name of your god.



**Title: OUT OF DOORS**
**Author: LAURA GLESBY**
**Page number(s): 38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Many New Haven residents choose to risk it on the streets rather than sleep in shelters.




**Title: Night Watch**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
here’s a side to New 
Haven that comes alive in 
the quiet of night, while 
most people in the city 
are dreaming. The city’s animal 
residents wake up and wander 
through the darkness: Families 
of rabbits. Colonies of stray cats. 
Packs of coyotes and deer.

Scott Cadwell knows this side of 
the city better than most. He has 
lived in New Haven's Hill neigh­
borhood for the past four years, 
and he often doesn’t sleep through 
the night. His home, beneath a 
bridge in the Hill, has a ceiling 
but no walls. The rain and snow 
can’t reach him, but the rest of the 
natural world can. Some nights, 
he watches the creatures dance 
between fight and flight as they 
weigh options for survival. He 
can clearly picture a wild rabbit 
he once saw by a ravine near his 
bridge, on a night he had stayed 
up late to smoke a cigarette. He 
remembers the rabbit was trem­
bling. After looking around, he 
spotted the threat: a bobcat about 
fifty feet away.


Predators can turn into prey, 
depending on the context. Cad­
well has seen clusters of thirty 
coyotes scuttling atop garbage 
mounds. The creatures are known 
for eating small animals and occa­
sionally attacking human beings, 
but Cadwell likes to say, “They’re 
more scared of you than you are 
of them.” One night, according to 
Cadwell, a coyote darted beneath 
his bridge. It lay down, shuddering 
in fear. “There’s gotta be a bigger 
predator right around here,” Cad­
well recalls thinking. When he 
turned, he saw the silhouette of 
what looked like a mountain lion 
slinking by. “I didn’t sleep that 
night really,” he said with half a 
laugh.


It’s possible that the mountain 
lion was really a bobcat, since 
environmental agencies believe 
that cougars have gone extinct in 
Connecticut. But Cadwell is con­
vinced it was a cougar. A former 
hunter, he claims to have seen 
mountain lion tracks in the city 
before.


Cadwell, a 52-year-old white 
man with a crooked, bony frame, 
has been homeless for five years. 
“I’m a survivor,” he said. While 
he has spent brief stints in home­
less shelters, away from the cold, 
most of the time he is one of the 
nearly three hundred Connecticut 
residents living on the streets. He 
can twist and bend his chronically 
dislocated left shoulder in nearly 
any direction; he’s a certified 
welder, but his shoulder prevents 
him from finding work. While 
some can’t fathom why he would 
choose the outdoors over a shelter, 
Cadwell doesn’t mind the wildlife 
that prowls through the city at 
night. His animal neighbors don’t 
bother him, and he doesn’t bother 
them back.


While some can’t 
fathom why he would 
choose the outdoors 
over a shelter, 
Cadwell doesn’t 
mind the wildlife 
that prowls through 
the city at night. His 
animal neighbors 
don’t bother him, and 
he doesn’t bother 
“They’re just trying to 
live out there,” Cadwell said. “Just 
trying to live.”


Cadwell’s bridge hangs over 
a set of train tracks, where New 
Haven borders the town of West 
Haven. He doesn’t technically live 
on transit property, but railroad 
workers sometimes interrogate 
him regardless. One day in early 
spring, he said, a maintenance 
worker began taking photographs 
of his encampment, without even 
greeting him. “I need to report 
this,” the worker had said. No one 
has formally required Cadwell to 
leave yet, but the thought of his 
image stored in a stranger’s phone 
bothered him.


Cadwell is no stranger to 
encounters like these, in which 
people who do not ask his name 
pressure him to take his things and 
go. One Thanksgiving, he and 
his mother wandered into West 
Haven to watch the boats docking 
at the Long Island Sound. A police 
officer approached them and asked 
what they were doing, where they 
were from. When Cadwell men­
tioned he was from New Haven, 
he recalls the cop replying: “This 
is what I want you to do: get 
in that car and go back to New 
Haven. If I see your fucking ass 
over that bridge again, you’ll get 
arrested and go to jail.” Cadwell 
and his mom had not been break­
ing any laws. They had simply 
been sitting by the water. The 
pair walked back to New Haven, 
rattled.


People who live outside, like 
Cadwell—on park benches, in 
tents, beneath bridges—often need 
to pick up and leave at a moment’s 
notice. In New Haven, police 
and city officials have historically 
moved to clear and disperse out­
door encampments. In defense 
of one such eviction, the city’s 
homeless 
services 
coordinator, 
Velma George, told the New 
Haven Independent in 2019 that 
“we want people to move out of 
these unsafe conditions to more 
safe conditions.” Other forced 
movements, like the West Haven 
officer’s command to Cadwell and 
his mom, highlight the precarious 
existence of people like Cadwell.



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Laura Glesby**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 40
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
his mother, have been motivated 
more explicitly by prejudice. 
In addition to hostile police 
interactions, people living on the 
streets are vulnerable to theft, 
sexual assault, and the weather. 
Despite the instability of this life, 
many unhoused people choose 
to live outdoors rather than in 
a shelter. Cadwell once stayed 
in Emergency Shelter Manage­
ment Services, a notoriously der­
elict establishment known as the 
“Grand Avenue Shelter.” The 
shelter houses seventy-five people 
in a room with rows and rows of 
orange-blanketed cots. As docu­
mented in the New Haven Inde­
pendent, the shelter operates within 
a one-story building that garnered 
multiple allegations of mold and 
fleas around when Cadwell lived 
there between 2014 and 2017. In 
theory, no one is allowed to be 
intoxicated at the Grand Avenue 
Shelter, but according to Cad­
well, that wasn’t the case when he 
stayed there five years ago. Cad­
well himself is addicted to crack 
cocaine. Still, the atmosphere 
bothered him. The shelter was 
“the nastiest place I think I’ve ever 
been in my life,” he said. “I got 
disgusted.” He decided to leave, 
and eventually found his spot by 
the railroad, under the bridge.
The shelter system does not fit 
the needs of everyone without 
a permanent place to live. Most 
homeless shelters for single adults, 
like Grand Avenue, are commu­
nal spaces that offer little oppor­
tunity for solitude. They are also 
intensely regulated. Shelters gen­
erally check for drugs and alcohol 
at the door, and some perform 
drug tests on clients, compounding 
the difficulties of finding a place to 
sleep for people living with addic­
tion. They impose stringent cur­
fews and often close down during 
the daytime, requiring residents to 
enter and leave according to a uni­
form and preset schedule. Many 
shelters limit the amount of consec­
utive days that a client is allowed to 
sleep there.
“We don’t acknowledge the fact 
that there is a whole subset of peo­
ple who are homeless that either 
cannot or will not comply with 
the rules of a shelter,” said Mark 
Colville, a white-haired homeless 
rights’ activist with a full-throated 
voice. Colville co-runs the Amis­
tad Catholic Worker house on the 
Hill’s Rosette Street, which offers 
food and other resources for those 
living in poverty. “What you do 
when you walk into a shelter is the 
same thing you do when you walk 
into a jail,” Colville said. “You give 
up your freedom, you give up your 
privacy, and most importantly, you 
give up your agency.” 


When the COVID-19 pandemic 
arrived in New Haven in March 
2020, the city’s homeless shelters 
underwent a radical change. At first, 
they turned more and more people 
away, in an effort to “de-densify” 
and enable social distancing. As 
public health officials urged resi­
dents to “shelter-in-place,” those 
without a place in which to shelter 
heard no answers about where they 
could go.
By then, all the tourists had aban­
doned town, leaving the city full 
of empty guest rooms. So the city’s 
Community Services Department 
decided to rent newfound space 
from a handful of local hotels and 
motels to serve as expansion sites for 
shelters. Shelter clients relocated, 
two to a room, to establishments 
Scott Cadwell at the Amistad Catholic Worker in March. 
Photo by Laura Glesby.


--- Page 41 ---

SEPTEMBER 2021
 41
mostly on the outskirts of the city, 
like Best Western and the Regal 
Inn. 
Just under a year after the pro­
gram’s start in March 2020, some 
people were still waiting for a hotel 
room. Jeff, who decided to share 
only his first name, was living out­
doors in March 2021—“here and 
there,” as he put it. He wanted, 
more than anything, to find a place 
to stay inside. When he first heard 
rumors that the city of New Haven 
was going to open up hotel rooms 
for unhoused city residents during 
the pandemic, he didn’t believe it. 
“Like, really, you’re gonna give me 
a hotel room?” he recalled thinking. 
“It just seemed too good to be true.”
For many homeless individu­
als in the city, including Cadwell, 
the promise of a hotel room took 
months to materialize. Jeff managed 
to get on the waitlist for a hotel 
room in December of 2020. Three 
months later, he had still not secured 
one. 
Emmett, a 50-year-old event pro­
ducer-turned-filmmaker who asked 
to use a pseudonym, had been all 
right with sleeping outdoors in an 
encampment for most of the pan­
demic—until the cold came. As 
winter crept over New Haven, he 
accumulated piles and piles of blan­
kets inside his tent, but still shivered 
at night. While Emmett heard that 
every hotel room was full in Decem­
ber, rumors trickled throughout 
the city that the hotels were like a 
revolving door—that people were 
getting kicked out all the time, 
especially for drug-related viola­
tions. In January, Emmett received 
a call that a room had become avail­
able. To accept it, he simply had to 
show up.
Emmett is a man constantly 
in motion. He once worked as a 
pop-up nightclub organizer, trav­
eling across the country and rent­
ing out event spaces for a handful 
of nights at a time. Throughout 
his first several months at the 
hotel when he was unemployed, 
Emmett would take a series of 
buses across New Haven each day, 
traveling between potential job 
opportunities in film and event 
staging, as well as stores he likes 
to patronize and neighborhoods 
he simply likes to walk in.  When 
we spoke last spring, he sat on a 
able to me,” Emmett said. “There’s 
a freezer there. I could keep cold 
food.”
In hotel rooms, clients can secure 
far more privacy and personal space 
than at the majority of the city’s 
crowded shelters. But they aren’t 
quite treated like regular hotel 
guests. They remain subject to the 
same rules, surveillance, and disci­
plinary consequences of a homeless 
shelter. At random, and sometimes 
without warning, shelter employees 
working at the hotel would knock 
on his door to do a room inspec­
tion, searching for contraband. 
They were “casual,” Emmett said. 
“If you don’t argue and all that shit, 
they just come in and go.” He didn’t 
mind these inspections “too much,” 
he said. He never expected to move 
in with his privacy fully intact. 
“You either utilize the service or 
you don’t.”
Emmett mostly kept to himself in 
the hotel room. He wasn’t there to 
make friends. “They’re not gonna 
end up paying your bills,” he said. 
If there’s one thing Emmett learned 
from years of couch-surfing and 
tent-sleeping, it’s that “nobody’s 
ever gonna pay for your car, put 
gas in your tank, pay the lease on 
your house,” he said. “You must 
always spread your wings and move 
away from people, no matter how 
good they are, or nice they are, or 
friendly.” 
After roaming around the city 
on his job search, Emmett would 
usually go to the store to pick up 
something to eat. He loved barbe­
cue food, and he developed a recent 
habit of mixing lemon iced tea-fla­
vored powder into his water. After 
eating, he would return to the hotel, 
checking his email and text mes­
sages. Then, he would switch on 
the TV. 
Emmett didn’t often remember 
the names of the films he watched 


In addition to hostile 
police interactions, 
people living on 
the streets are 
vulnerable to theft, 
sexual assault, and 
the weather. Despite 
the instability of this 
life, many unhoused 
people choose to live 
outdoors rather than 
in a shelter.
wooden fence in an East Rock 
parking lot, carrying a leather 
cross-body bag and wearing a 
lanyard from his high school hon­
ors society back in California. He 
is used to coming and going from 
place to place, from bed to bed, 
when a new opportunity comes 
his way. So Emmett arrived at 
the hotel the day he received the 
call from the state’s centralized 
resource intake center, 2-1-1, in 
New Haven’s Long Wharf neigh­
borhood.
New Haven Village Suites is 
right by the highway, in a part 
of the city known for its big box 
stores, food trucks, and parking 
lots. Emmett and his roommate 
shared a microwave and stove, 
a television, and a bathroom to 
themselves. In the hotel, “I could 
get up, I could shower, and I 
could go to work. That’s valu­


--- Page 42 ---

 42
alone in his hotel room at night. 
The particular stories weren’t as 
important to him as the way those 
stories are told. He isn’t the kind of 
person to switch on the television 
simply to escape into someone else’s 
narrative. Instead, he took note of 
each movie’s production strategies. 
He digested the lighting, the cam­
era’s motion, the rhythm of the dia­
logue. He tried to measure the gaps 
between what a director might have 
envisioned and what the film turned 
out to be.
After the movie was done, he 
would shower. Sleep. Wake up in 
the morning. Eat a bowl of cereal. 
Then, he would leave to look for 
work again. Emmett carried a stack 
of three-page resumes nearly every­
where he went, to hand out to pro­
spective employers. In a letter on 
the final page, he wrote, “I plan to 
be available whenever the offer may 
become valuable for you. I shall 
respond upon notice at any time.” 
He took his desire to find a job 
more seriously than any other com­
mitment; in a few months, he would 
go on to find work at a local steak­
house and as a personal assistant. 
“The person who has the company 
with the job is the most important 
person to me,” he said. “I know 
there’s bigger, better, brighter days 
out there. I just can’t let it get out 
of my mind or my sensibility.” His 
left knee trembled as he spoke, as if 
preparing to resume walking again 
at any moment. 
Cadwell often sits inside the front 
yard tent at the Amistad Catholic 
Worker, the free kitchen and gath­
ering place that Colville and his wife 
Luz Catarineau have run for decades 
out of their own home. Cadwell 
lingers for hours. He likes to tell 
stories about his family. He calls his 
mom, who lives in senior housing 
in the town of Branford, every day. 
“She’s my everything,” he said in 
March. “My best friend.” One day 
when he was 25, he recalled, his 
mother came to him, crying. He’d 
been raised as an only child, but 
his mom revealed that morning 
that he had a biological sister two 
years older than him, who had 
been given up for adoption. He 
met his sister for the first time in 
2005. Every so often, she comes to 
visit. “We’re close, but not as close 
as I’d like us to be,” Cadwell said. 
His sister works in the Life 
Insurance industry. “She does 
really well for herself,” Cadwell 
said inside the Amistad Catho­
lic Worker tent, as he ate from a 
paper plate of rice and sausage. 
“I’m proud of her.” She works 
remotely in a “beautiful” house on 
the Massachusetts-Rhode Island 
border. She cares for a number of 
pet spaniels and horses. “She’s got 
a trailer for the horses, and it’s got 
air-conditioning and everything.”
After living outside for five 
years, Cadwell decided to sign 
up for a hotel room one frigid 
December day. Months later in 
March, he was still on the waitlist. 
(When I tried to reach him again 
in September, his cell number 
redirected to someone else's line.) 
“I respect what they’re doing with 
the hotel beds,” he said. A hotel 
room, he knew, would pose its 
own challenges. He’d heard of 
dozens of people getting thrown 
out for drug use. The curfews, the 
searches, the structure—it would 
all be unfamiliar for Cadwell, 
and probably difficult. “It would 
be hard for someone like me to 
adjust.” But it was freezing out, so 
he signed up anyway.
Laura Glesby is a senior in 
Timothy Dwight College and 
a former Editor-in-Chief 
of The New Journal.


**Title: ASIDES EAST HADDAM**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 42**

ASIDES
EAST HADDAM
BY ELI MENNERICK 
For our day trip, we drove to East 
Haddam—forty minutes from New 
Haven and home to the Devil’s 
Hopyard State Park. Supposedly, 
The Devil grows his hops there. 
We hiked around for a while—past 
a waterfall, over some boulders—
without seeing anything very 
satanic. For lunch, we stopped at a 
café called Higher Grounds. Along 
with our fifteen-dollar breakfast 
burritos, the barista placed on our 
tray a fresh marijuana leaf. We sat 
out back at a damp picnic table; 
the other patrons sat in a circle and 
passed around a joint. Drew found 
a hair in his burrito, then a small, 
wiggling worm. None of us found 
the courage to ask for a refund. 


**Title: FLOODS, SEPTEMBER 2021**
**Author: Alexandra Galloway**

FLOODS, 
BY ALEXANDRA 
GALLOWAY 
From our fifth floor Davenport 
suite, we stick our heads out the 
window to feel the rain kiss our 
faces. We peel the red wax off all 
the Babybel cheese in our fridge. 
“Before it goes bad,” we say, eating 
it all. Below us, white tents in the 
courtyard sag and collapse, little 
empires going to shit. We can’t hear 
the alarms blaring, but we can see 
the white strobe flash through the 
windows of the library. Blinking, 
blinking, blinking, sending a futile 
Morse code as barefoot first-years 
and upperclassmen, brandishing 
flashlights, wander in the dark 
floodwaters. The start of the end, my 
suitemate muses. 



**Title: ON THE ROOF OF WATSON**
**Author: NICOLE DIRKS**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
This weekend, I found myself at a party with twenty 
strangers on the roof of the Watson Center. It felt 
unlikely and illegal, and thus important and correct—
probably the sentiments of every person who’s ever 
hung out on a roof of an institutional building. There 
was cheap, sweet rosé. There was talk of holy shit I’m 
so glad we aren’t first years anymore and are you kidding 
at least we aren’t in high school anymore. Every minute 
or two, a motion-sensitive floodlight blinked on, at 
which point whatever conversation I was jiving with 
was met with a horrible overhead brightness, pointing 
out flaws in faces you would normally choose to ignore 
in the gush of meeting someone new and interesting. 
It was as if a helicopter were hovering above, blaring its 
spotlight and shouting STOP You Have Been Caught In 
the Act of Trying to Be NICE and Make FRIENDS, and 
then turning off to signal never mind and that actually 
you may carry on. After a year and a half of constantly 
halted socialization, it’s nice to carry on. Even if it’s stop 
and go.


**Title: SALOVEY’S GARDEN**
**Author: NANKI CHUGH**

Last year, as “let’s grab a meal” gave way to “let’s go 
for a walk,” Yale students stumbled upon 43 Hill­
house, a quasi-public garden of rolling lawns and 
sprawling oaks that makes up the backyard of Pres­
ident Salovey and Marta Moret, design courtesy of 
Master Gardener Moret. “It feels like we shouldn’t be 
allowed to be there,” said one undergraduate student. 
But the pandemic transformed the once-exclusive 
space into a more inviting one, as the community 
began to use the yard for walks, picnics, and reflec­
tion. I celebrated my 21st birthday there, laying my 
blanket under the shade of a gracious oak, enjoy­
ing the balmy breeze with friends as we munched 
on grapes and cheese. It seems the space is here to 
stay this fall; Salovey told me via email that he’s 
“delighted to share this beautiful open space with the 
community.”


--- Page 44 ---

44
THE  NEW  JOURNAL

