Publication date: February 2006
Volume: 38
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Matt Baron
- Editor-in-Chief: Romy Drucker
- Managing Editors: Concha Mendoza, Adriane Quinlan
- Designer: Sara Schneider
- Associate Publisher: Natasha Kim
- Photography Editor: Erica Deahl
- Senior Editors: Paige Austin, Sarah Laskow
- Production Manager: Mina Kimes
- Research Director: Helen Eckinger
- Associate Editor: David Zax
- Assistant Editor: Jonny Dach
- Web Designer: Nichols Jv.ro~l
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Anna Altman
- Staff: Emily Koh,Julia WaDace, Nicole Ailan, Ivy Wang, Lane Rick, Emily Kopley, Gabriel Diaz, Veronica Nick Handler 
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Klutz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Sttebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swans burg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Laura Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou, Emily Bazeloo, Anson M Beard,Jt B1aire Bennett, Edward B. Bennett, Richard Blow, Martha Bran~ Jay Carney, Daphne Chu,Josh Civin,Jonathan M Oark, Constance Oemen~ Elisha Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Co~ .Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Tom Griggs, Stephen HeDman, Jane Kamensky, Brooks Kelley, Roger · Lewis E. Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Marrba E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Pia~ Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C Randal, Stuart Rohrer Arlo: •• and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W Hamptpton Sides, Lisa Silve11nan, Adina and David Sulsn ~an, 'Ihomas SttOf .g Elizabeth Tate, Daniel YCigin and Angda Sttnt Ye1gin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Bodies of Art - Emily Kopley
- Labor of Love - Helen Eckinger
- Virtually Everything - Adriane Quinlan
- Points of Departure - 
- The Critical: Country Kitchens - Mina Kimes
- Essay: The Yale Woman - Romy Drucker
- Endnote: Get out of Bed - Paige Austin


**Title: Bodies of Art**
**Author: Emily Kopley**
**Page number(s): 14**

Under the skin of New Haven's tattoo artists.


**Title: Labor of Love**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 26**

Midwives deliver in New Haven's baby business.


**Title: Virtually Everything**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 32**

To digitize a library is a monumental task, and we're just getting started.


**Title: Events at Yale Bookstore**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
. 
THE BooK, 
ETTHE 
MOLLY WORTHEN, author of The Man on 
Whom Nothing Was Lost: The Grand Strategy 
of Charles Hill 
BRIAN PALMER, co-editor of Global 
Values 101 
Wednesday, February 22 at 4:00 pm 
ROBERTO GONZALEZ ECHEVARRIA, 
author of Love and the Law in Cervantes 
POETRY NIGHT, with featured poet 
Deborah ·Agnew, author of the forthcom-
ing collection Black Doves, followed by an 
OPEN we for audience members to share 
their. poems. 
Thuc·sday, March 2 at 6:00 pm 
NEIL PROTO, author of To a High Court: The 
Tumult and Choices That lead to United States of 
America u SCRAP. 
4 
For a Full Schedule of Events Visit 
WWW:Jalebookstore. com 
77 Broadway, New Haven 
(203) 777-8440 
n the spirit of an issue devoted to the 
idea of "reproduction" in all its forms, 
the Editors considered it appropriate to 
reprint our founding editors' original mission 
statement, printed in 1968. Because it con-
fronts the meaning of the new in light of the 
old, the statement seems as relevant to us today 
as it was 38 years ago: 
(This .universiry has once again ·reached that 
-
' 
stage in history when people are talking about tlie 
New Yale) presumablY to be distinguished rom t~rt 
Old Yale) which in its own dqy was presumabjy con-
sidered new. · 
Wishing to share in this modernity) we have 
chosen The New ournal as the name or our publi-
cation. Besides) things seemed slow around here. '' 
This year's theme issue shares the con-
cerns of that magazine 
what is old, what is 
new, and in this digital age of reproduction, 
what does· it mean to be new? In this issue, 
. we explore the replication of ideas, in1ages, 
and people. The New Journal has traditionally 
printed a theme issue at this titne of year, so 
in a sense we are embracing a double-form of 
reproduction. In adhering to tradition, we 
make the old new again. 
-The Editors 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


<br>

**Title: A Long Exposure**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

A Long Exposure 
AT A UTILE PASf NOON, 1HE PHatOGRAPHER 
unloads his apparatus from a car parked 
at the foot of Harkness Tower. He lugs 
a great wooden box and tripod over to 
the High Street gate, sets up the camera, and 
trains it at ~ th~ ·gate. He made this camera 
obscura 2'a gorgeous and intricate piece of 
red woodwork 
by himself a few years ago, 
drawing on carp€pttys kills he picked up as 
a Yale undergrad~~te. ~ the '70s. Only the 
Voightlander ley~fdtl~ding from the cam-
era and the tri~d it sfts atop are not of his 
· own making. 
Nate Gibbons is a sturdily built man with 
. ·a thick, redcij:sh moustache. He wears a 
white wool hat, heavy-duty boots, and a 
workman's apron. Nato 
as he prefers to 
be called 
is showing me how to make a 
tintype, an early photographic process that 
was eclipsed in the late 1800s by paper 
prints. A few decades ago, finicky Civil War 
re-enactors were the only ones still practic-
ing the craft (albeit clumsily, Nato suggests). 
''They kept it alive when it might've other-
wise died out ... " His voice trails off as he 
opens up the trunk of his car. ''But nothing 
dies forever," he adds brightly, reaching for 
a small metal plate. 
Becau~e wet-plate photography must 
be processed within minutes of exposure, 
Nato has converted the rear of his Chevy 
into a portable darkroom. It is filled with 
jugs, vials, plexiglass trays, and wooden 
boxes. Over the course of the day, I pick 
up the names of the panoply of chemicals 
and learn that many are dangerous. Nato 
wears gloves and goggles; his shirt is 
stained in many places, and, were he not 
careful, the same could happen to his skin. 
''The irony of this beautiful art form," he 
~ays, "is that you deal with stuff that can 
blind the photographer." 
February 2006 
. .., 
z 
~ 
"D ·-> 
ca c 
In the age if digital photograpf?y, wf?y make tin!JPes at all? 
· He coats a five by seven inch metal plate 
with gun cotton, an emulsion, then sensi-
tizes the plate in a silver solution for three 
minutes. For a moment, he peeks out and 
looks toward the gate. ''The cam-era still 
there?" he asks, and then g rins at what he 
sees. He chuckles a bit: Two amorous stu-
dents are kissing beside his camera. ''Ah, to 
be young again ... " he says, fitting the ready 
plate into a plateholder. 
Once die lovers have departed, Nato 
slips the plateholder into his camera, 
removes the lens cap, and counts to 15. He 
replaces the lens cap, takes out the plate-
holder, and heads back to the little dark-
room. After strapping a small red headlamp 
around his forehead, he promises to be 
''back in a jiffy" and disappears unden1eath 
the dark cloth to develop the plate. 
He 
emerges a few minutes later to fix the image 
by pouring cyanide solution over it. This, he 
explains, can be the most dangerous part of 
the process for a careless photographer: 
"D eveloper is acidic, and acid releases 
cyanide gas from the solution," he explains. 
He's heard of a few accidental deaths. 
A student with a camera slung around 
her neck approaches p.s and shyly asks 
Nato if she can take a picture of the artist 
at work. She raises the Nikon to her eye 
and presses a button. Her camera's shut-
ter flits open for a thirtieth of a second, 
then closes. She thanks us and walks away. 
Nato returns to work. 
What could drive a man to spend weeks 
fumbling through 19th century treatises on 
photochemistry, as Nato did, struggling to 
figure out what "drams" and "scruples" and 
"soda pop of ash" refer to? What could 
make him devote months to constructing 
cameras from scratch, and then spend over 
a year experimenting with those cameras 
before he had anything to show for it? Why 
would anyone make tin~es at all in the age 
of digital photography? ·Is it simple nostal-
gia 
or maybe masochism? · 
It is neither. Nato has little concern for 
history, and no interest in emulating the 
Civil War re-enactors who preserved the 
craft most had forgotten. He doesn't hesi-
tate to use an electronic egg timer or other 
21st century gadgets that seem oddly incon-
gruous with his otherwise historically accu-
rate outfit. 
He even affixes footwarmer 
heat-packs to the bottle of developer, since 
he worries that the January weather might 
impede optimal development. Though he 
uses a lens from the 1850s, he says he'd be 
glad to use a modern one, if he could afford 
it. Voightlander, which he calls the "Nikon 
of its day," made heaps of fine lenses that 
no one uses anymore, and he picked this 
one up on eBay for sixty bucks. 
If it isn't nostalgia driving him, then 
might it be a devotion to craft? This could 
be the answer to the riddle, as suggested 
when another passerby engages Nato in 
conversation. "The problem;' says the man, 
who works at Yale Media Services, "is that 
everyone with a camera's a photographer 
these days." 
Nato corrects him politely: 
'~yone can take a picture 
not everyone's 
a photographer." 
But Nato also debunks the notion that 
laborious artisanship is necessary to pro-
duce a great photograph: Snapshots, he tells 
me, can be art too. Far from denigrating 
modern photographic techniques, Nato 
reveals that he even uses a digital camera on 
occasion. ''People sometimes ask me, 'If 
you could achieve the exact same results 
with a digital camera and a computer, would 
you do it?' I'd sure as hell try." In fact, he 
almost pursued digital photography instead 
of historic processes 
a decision he felt had 
to make five years ago. 
Nato is ready with the fixer. As the 
chemicals do their· work, the image transi-
tions from negative to positive; the dark sky 
fades to a pale grey, ~d the spectral white of 
the gate thickens into a solid black. Nato 
gives me the tintype to hold, and I see the 
incredibly rich detail that only a polished 
metal surface can register. The image has the 
ghostly beauty peculiar to historic wet-plate 
processes. Here, at last, is evidence for why 
Nate Gibbons pursues such an antiquated 
· art form; ''It's all about the image," he says. 
He finds the work of art that results from 
the historic process to be of superior beauty. 
As Nato packs up his apparatus, I ask 
him what happened five years ago to force 
his decision between digital and historic 
processes. 
I am expecting a quick and 
ready answer, like he usually gives 
prob-
ably something about a special develop-
ment in digital technology around 2001. 
Instead, Nato is quiet for a while, then 
answers very carefully. "I got to a point 
where I saw that, realistically, I only had 
15 years left of professional life to devote 
to a single craft," he says. 
Nato is 49 now: ''I've got the five-zero 
staring me in the face like a nine r:pill.ipeter," 
he says solemnly. Ever since Re .first took 
Introduction to Photography at Yale,_.,_ art 
photography has been his passion 
bpt he 
never sold a single photograph, not in 25 
years. Fortunately, his gamble on historic 
processes has finally brought him a small 
measure of success: He has at last attracted 
some attention to his photography, and last 
year he sold a few tintypes. But Nato figures 
that he is only covering his expenses with 
what he sells. ''I'm not about to quit my day 
job," he admits. Nato worked for the New 
Haven Register for a while when he got out 
of college; now he supports himself as a fire 
inspector in Westport. 
The photographer loads his equipment 
back into his Chevy. It's a little ·past four; the 
sun is too low for picture-taking now, and he 
has several images of the gate already 
a 
good day's work With another kind of cam-
era, he might easily have filled an entire mem-
ory card in the same four hour span. But a 
good photograph, Nato knows, takes time. 
-David Zax 



**Title: Goodnight, Room**
**Page number(s): 6**

Goodnight, Room 
"GooD MORNING, MOUSE. II 
Early on a wintry Friday, I am mumbling 
into a payph?ne receiver, part of an exhibit 
on the first floor of the Connecticut 
Children's Museum. One floor up, a black 



**Goodnight Moon: A Museum Exhibit**
**Author: Jomny Dach**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• rotary phone sits perched on a bunny's 
bedside table, ready to receive my call. The 
ring is too quiet, however, to wake the 
bunny or the quiet old lady whispering 
"hush" 
from their imaginary slumbers. 

With its windows looking out onto the 
snowy corner of Wall and Orange Streets, 
the great, green room from Margaret Wise 
Brown's beloved children's bedtime clas-
. . 
sic, Goodnight Moon, is replicated in full-
scale. The view of the sidewalk is 
obscured by sheets of blue plastic with 
cutaway stars and the moon, a simulation 
of what the book's characters would see 
from their drowsy, rocking recline. The 
green walls are home to the two gray 
stuffed animal rabbits, two little kittens, a 
pair of mittens, a marble fireplace, green-
• 
and-yellow striped curtains, and all the 
other objects familiar to generations of 
small chilqren: 

The telephone rings are, alas, too quiet to 
atttact the -attention of the duster of chil-
dren I know are .. sittit).g on the room's plush, 
' 
red carpet. ~stead~ 9~ ~the children's piping 
-
voices, I am gre~ted ,.vith a recording that 
-:- ¥!;r 
, 
announces thak ev6:y11ne, from the pair of 
rabbits to the small white mouse present in 
each of the book's illustrations, is unable to 
come to the phone. The recording invites me 
to leave a message 
an opportunity which I 
decline. Later, on my way out of the muse-
um, I try 
· 
again, only to be quickly 
hung up on by a three year-old girl 

The museum that she and I spend our 
morning enjoying was born, according to 
Director Sandra Malmquist, in "a series of 
Inspiration Meetings, held from February 
through July 2000." At these sessions, a 
diverse group of community members,---
parents, builders, teachers, legislators, at rists, 
and naturalists 
met to craft a theme for 
each of the building's eight rooms. The 
museum is based on Harvard psychologist 
Howard Gamer's Theory of Multiple 
Intelligences 
each of the rooms is dedicat-
ed to one of the eight intelligences Garner 
articulated: Musical, Logical-Mathematical, 
Spatia\, Interpersonal, lntrapersonal, Bodily-
Kinesthetic, · 
· tic, and Naturalist. 

The great, green room is the · 
nc 
room, and exists thanks to a perceptive New 
Havener who noticed the uncanny resem-
blance between the room's existing fireplace 
and the one drawn almost sixtf years ago by 
Oement Hurd, the book's illustrator. After 
this discovery, Malmquist said, ''It became 
February 2006 
immediately dear that re-creating the great, 
green room from Goodnight Moon would be 
an entirely magical process resulting in a 
totally magical product." 

Several months, a conversation, and a let-
ter 
to 
Goodnight 
Moon's 
publisher 
HarperCollins later, the great, green room 
opened its bedroom door to the public. 

The room caters to a large portion of that 
public. Spanish, French, Korean, Japanese, 
and Hebrew editions of Goodnight Moon are 
shelved alongside the original, while the large 
pieces of plastic and metal type that line the 
magnetic walls with words from the book 
are 
underscored by Braille lettering. 

Malmquist describes the "inclusion of chil-
dren with disabilities" as "a cornerstone of 
our work and our museum." Many of the 
children's books have also been Brailled, and 
an American Sign Language alphabet puzzle 
sits next to a Perkins Braille typewriter on the 
bunny's desk. 

In its twin goals of bringing to life a fic-
titious environment and fostering the lin-
guistic intelligence of its visitors, the trans-
formation of the great, green room from 
two dimensions into three has been an 
immense success. Creating Readers, a litera-
cy program run out of the museum, builds 
on children's enchantment by distributing 
copies of picture books to its visitors, 
drawn from the community-at-large. Over 
the last five years, the museum has given 
away more than 25,000 works in English, 
Spanish, and Braille. 

Barraged by screaming toddlers, I muse 
on a story of the book's republication. While 
older editions' back covers sport a photo of 
the illustrator, Hurd, flicking a cigarette, cur-
rent HarperCollins editor Kate Jackson 
obtained permission from his son to-digital-
ly remove· the cig. But the younger Hurd was 
ultimately unhappy with the final product, 
saying that the altered photograph of his 
father's extended, empty hand ''looks slight-
ly absurd to me." 

In the same way, the museum's revised 
edition lacks some necessary element. 
Something, I think, resting my hand on the 
bunny's bedside table, is missing. A certain 
pat ticular essence... a certain keystone. 

Here, beside the comb and the brush, I pick 
up the red plastic bowl full of mush. But, for 
obvious practical reasons, the bowl is empty. 
So too, at night, after the children have gone, 
is the room.


**The Original Copiers**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

ONCE UPON A TIME 
WELL, IN 1HE 1960&-

Mike and Ellie Ianuzzi had a dream . 

Determined young New Haveners amidst a 
swarm of studious, stoned Yale students and 
scholarly, stoned Yale professors, they fun-
neled their passion into their very own 
lovechild: a photocopy shop. Groovy. 

Birthed in a tiny space on Broadway, 
TYCO survived adolescence a couple of 
stores down and is now enjoying a ripe mid-
dle-age at its current address on Elm. Despite 
the buzz about a rapidly approaching "paper-
less society" 
a concept which fizzled in 
proper Y2K fashion 
TYCO has grown, 
acquiring a new baby sister along the way: 
Elm City Fine Stationers, on Chapel Street, 
was hatched to compliment TYCO's everyday 
services. The two stores, still lovingly attended 
to by Mike and Ellie, are prospering. 

One of the forces 
TYCO's success 
is its long-term staff. As Mike Ianuzzi 
describes it, an employee "either fits or does-
n't fit. You can tell early on." Course packet 
season, the most hectic time of year, weeds 
out misfits. ''This is the time when everyone 
here really peaks and steps up to the plate-
it's a high-pressure environment. It helps that 
Ellie and I are in the trenches with them and 
really believe the employee situation is a two-
way street," Ianuzzi reflects from his desk on 
the cluttered third floor of the TYCO war-
zone. "'Ihjs is a big part of why I think our 
customer relations are second to none." 

Jodie Foster '85 might agree. "She was one 
of the absolute nicest people ever to walk 
through our door," Ianuzzi attests. One of the 
perks of catering to a Yale crowd is interact-
ing with future bigwigs, be they students at 
the drama school or ambitious EP&E 
majors. ''I'm sure Bill Clinton came into 
TYCO sometime during his time at Yale," 
Ianuzzi muses. ''We might not have known 
it then, but we probably copied some papers 
for him." 

Since the rapport built with students oper-
ates on four-year cycles, TYCO relies primari-
ly on its devoted professor clientele. Each 
professor selects a store to print their course 
packets according to the service, value, and,--
at least for Dean Jennifer Wood of Ezra 
Stiles 
the dog biscuits. ''I use TYCO for my 
course packets because I love the people (one 
woman gives treats to my dog) and they're 
very fast," Wood comments. ''I'm very loyal 
7


**Reconstruction**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

I PA S BENEATH THE GAZE OF ELIHU YALE 
at least five time_s daily. Perched atop 
the upper tiers of Harkness Tower, 
Yale's namesake resides on High Street. 
While I often frequent this section of 
the street, our encounters had, until 
recently, occurred unbeknownst to me. 
Luckily, Eli has plenty of other histori-
cally important figures to keep hitp. 
company: . Jonathan 
Edwards, 
Eli 
Whitney, John Calhoun, and Nathan 
Hale also adorn the tower's heights. 

James Gamble Rogers, the architect 
behind much of Yale's gothic genius, 
including Harkness Tower, incorporat-
ed a variety of statues into its construc-
tion. Aristotle and Homer are immor-
talized in the tower's design, as are alle-
gorical representations of Justice, Life, 
Progress, and Death. Rogers modeled 
Harkness after St. Botolph's Priory in 
Boston, England. Originally, he looked 
for 
inspiration 
the 
tower of 
Magdalen College, Oxford, but ul!J--
timately decided that its construction was 
"too heavy," and that a lighter structure, 
similar to that of St. Botolph's, would 
be more aesthetically pleasing. 

Paul Goldberger '72, one of the 
authors 
of 
Yale 
in 
New 
Haven: 
Architecture and Urbanism, explains how 
"in this one project, Rogers established 
a kind of soft, highly picturesque 
Gothic as Yale's primary architectural 
style; he gave the University a physical 
symbol. .. that has never been supplant-
ed." The tower was built two hundred 
years after Yale erected its first building; 
Harkness's prominence . established an 
official style to usher the University into 
a new era. 

Although the tower and the other 
buildings which comprise Memorial 
Quadrangle 
Branford and Saybrook 
Colleges 
received a great deal of 
praise for creating a central motif for 
the Yale campus, Rogers's buildings 
drew harsh criticism as well. William 
Harlan Hale '31, who commented on the 
designs in a Yale publication generously 
titled The Harkness Hoot, accused Rogers 
of ignoring the emerging influence of 
Modernism and falling back on anachro-
nistic, derivative architecture instead. 

"It seems almost incredible," he 
wrote. "When the world is witnessing a 
~weeping rebirth of genuine architec-
ture, and when every clear-headed 
designer who is not bound to copies and 
formulas is envisioning a new order of 
forms and masses and relationships, 
then the builders of Yale join the tribe 
of potencial irriitators who grind out 
their lifeless plagiarisms." 

Whether or not the style was indeed 
plagiarized, Yale officials admired the 
University's Gothic appearance so much 
th~t they commissioned Rogers to 
design more buildings in the same 
mimetic 
style. 
These 
buildings-
Jonathan Edwards College and Sterling 
Memorial~ Library 
were built in con-
formity'·With the style of the "Gothic 
corridor:" Rogers continued this tradi-
tion :.'when 'he constructed Davenport 
College in 1933. While the interior of 
Daveppdrt is deCidedly Georgian in 
style, the College's exterior -fa a~e on 
York Street bears Gothic ar hitecture. 

This was not the first time .,that 
Rogers had engaged in this type of 
architectural makeover: Two years --earli-
er he had changed the front of the 
University Theater to reflect a Gothic 
look. Goldberger says that Roger's 
unusual stylistic decision "was motivated 
by an awareness that buildings do 
not stand alone as islands in the city, 
that they must establish urbanistic rela-
tionships among themselves, and that 
their civic responsibility, so to speak, is 
to the streetscape." 

Rogers faced two challenges while 
working at Yale. In addition to present-
ing a uniform architectural style, he 
f~ced pressure to make the buildings 
appear rimch older than they actually 
were. · In his opinion, however, Yale's 
attempt to associate newly-constructed 
buildings with an earlier time period felt 
artificial.· After he decided to apply tile 
inst~_ad of "historically au~ntic" slate 
to the roofs of the Quadrangle build-
ings,' Rogers wrote a letter to Anson 
Phelps Stokes, a former secretary of 
Yale which read: '~s far as traditions go, 
I hope that the only traditions governing 
us will be Yale traditions and our coun-
try's tradition... It does ·seem awfully 
hollow and servilely cringing to use a 
tradition that means nothing to us."


**Live Culture**
**Page number(s): 9**

Machu Picchu exhibit, "Unveiling the 
Mystery of the Incas," you must sit 
through a ten-minute video in a dark 
room on stiff, backless, wooden bench-
es. Here, you learn that the city of 
Machu Picchu was built in the 1460s, 
thrived until the 1532 Spanish conquest 
of Peru, and was later reduced to ruins 
as it "faded from memory" 
that is, 
until Yale Professor Hiram Bingham 
III's "scientific discovery" of the site in 
1911. The video poses questions such 
as, "How was such a great archaeologi-
cal structure revealed after 350 years?" 
The narrator invites you to "let your 
journey of discovery begin." The large 
screen then rises to reveal a heavy door, 
which takes the cue to slowly open on a 
reproduction of a portion of the 
ancient city 
mimicking the feeling of 
"discovery" Bingham must have felt one 
hundred years ago . 

I imagine that his discover was a little 
more arduous. He wrote in his diaries 
about the magnificent payoff: the "great 
snow peaks looming above the clouds 
more than two miles overhead" and "the 
foaming, glistening, roaring rapids," that 
left him awestruck. I, however, am not 
immediately taken aback by my first visit 



**Machu Picchu in New Haven**
**Author: Concha Mendoza**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to the exhibit of the royal retreat of the 
Incan _king Sapa Inca Pachacuti. After 
scanning a display of cameras used by 
Bingham, some of the extensive pictures 
he snapped, accurate diaries he scrib-
bled, and maps he drew, I set foot on a 
replica of an ancient Incan road, leading 
to a reproduction of the foyer of the 
Incan king's residence. The walls, floors, 
and trail are crafted from actual molds 
taken of Machu Picchu. If you overlook 
the squeaking "granite" floor, the fiber-
glass "stone" walls, and the panoramic 
photograph of Machu Picchu spanning 
the entire right wall of the second room, 
you can concentrate on the original arti-
facts Bingham carted away from the site 
in 1912. It is around these authentic 
objects that curators Lucy Salazar, a 
n~tive of Peru, and her husband, 
Anthropology Professor Richard Burger, 
have d~signed their exhibit. 

A three-foot-tall ceramic vessel used 
for storing chicha, an Afidean corn beer, is 
the large:;,t:_ , artif~ct in the exhibit, housed 
in a glass -:C:~se {n :1!Je center · of the trail. 
Most of ~e1:'o--~j~ts are more delicate, 
such as metal tools that boast of the 
Incas' metallurgic prowess and smaller 
pottery painted with fine, geometric 
designs. These are displayed in the trape-
zoidal niches used as storage units in the 
stone walls. Although some artifacts are 
on loan from other universities, the tnajor-
ity are from the Peabody collection. These 
objects are the only real artifacts amidst a 
gamut of reproductions, including the 
fake-stone walls, the floor, the panoramic 
photo, three life-sized mannequins of 
men in traditional dress, and a miniature 
of the entire site. 

Salazar sees her work of displaying 
these long-neglected artifacts to recreate 
a small segment of Machu Picchu in 
New Haven 
and several other cities the 
exhibit has visited 
as piecing together 
the highly-organized world of the Incas 
and allowing the public to interact with 
it. After eight years of preparation, she 
can now share the immensity of the 
Incas' 
accomplishments 
at 
Machu 
Picchu and impart lessons of this histo-
ry that are invaluable today. Huge stor-
age houses, for instance, ensured that, in 
times of drought, everyone had food. 
"The people didn't have hunger in the 
empire, because everything was so 
organized," she explains. 

Some of Salazar's favorite parts of t;he 
exhibit are the artifacts that are made in 
matching male and female pairs. Most 
everyday objects were produced in cou-
ples at Machu Picchu, in accordance with 
a belief in reciprocity that ran throughout 
the empire. "It's an Andean concept, but 
the Incas are the fttst to reflect this sym-
bolism," Salazar explains. "The idea is that 
you're not alone," 

This notion of harmony is a far cry 
from the acrimony stirred by the current 
struggle between Yale and the Peruvian 
government over the ownership of the 
artifacts. While the United States' exhibi-
tions of the objects has increased interest 
in the original Machu Picchu, the 
Peruvian government is forcing Yale into 
a cultural battle. For Peru, Machu Picchu 
is a source of national pride: The current 
president, Alejandro Toledo, held his 
inauguration at the historic site in 2001. 
When Salazar left her native Peru in the 
1980s to study in the United States, she 
was not on a quest to unlock the mystery 
of the lost Incan city. As she and her hus-
band became the first academics to study 
the collection as a whole, her interest was 
not derived from or connected with her 
heritage, but rather from the challenge of 
exhibiting culture in general. 

These artifacts have symbolic power 
beyond Salazar's control. Their public 
unveiling in the United States is overshad-
owed by Peru's current revival of indige-
nous pride. And while New Haven's recre-
ation would not be as compelling without 
the original artifacts, it is also possible that 
the artifacts' impact on the public isn't as 
powerful when plucked from the breath-
taking -seu ing and rich history of their 
original home. 


**Printed Matter**

LAST MONTH, IN THE S-WEEPING ENTRANCE 
ha11 to Sterling Memorial Library, sat a 
recently departed and often-overlooked 
exhibit based upon the age-old adage that 
oil and water do not mix (dining halJ soup is 
compelling evidence) Ies a beautiful thing, 
really: pure, unadulterated, and easy science 
for the most ethyl and benzene-phobic 
among us. But this practical knowledge has 
a much larger context in lithography, a print-
ing process that cheerfully exploits nature's 
great divide. From the defiant philosophy 
upon which it is based to the actual printing 
process, which takes place on a large black 
press reca11ing a medieval torture device, 
lithography is a classic process rooted in 
technique. 

Lithography's roots go back to 1798, 
before the era of "photosensitive emul-
sions" and other modern-day technological 
toys. To create a lithograph, artists draw an 
image onto a stone block which they cover 
with acid. The acid reacts with the oil-based 
image in a way that creates "walls" around 
the design. After a quick water wash, the 
artist applies a coating of ink that is retained 
within the walls. A run through a press 
applies only the oily sections to the page 
while the water-based sections remain blank. 
The highly sought-after images are created 
without the hassles or splinters of wood-
cuts, or the burden of finding a middle man 
to do the etching for you. Painless this 
process is not, but, as any burgeoning artist 
could tell you, artistic independence is well 
worth the price. 

The final products, as I saw on a recent 
visit to the exhibit, are well worth the trou-
ble. Though modern, user-friendly, ink-jet 
printing has largely replaced lithography, 
lithographic images are like every person's 
ideal mate: complex, unique, and well-
defined in all of the right areas. 

Sterling's exhibit, entitled "Production, 
Not Reproduction," housed an eclectic 
group of lithographs, running· the gamut 
from ''The Bread Book" 
whose black and 
white pages are filled with close-ups of, well, 
slices of bread 
to a fold-out lithograph of 
a disjointed accordion surrounding magni-
fied blades of grass. 

Burdened with a desperate need to pro-
crastinate? Track Chatles Henri Ford's litho-
graphically produced "Silver Flower Coo" 
(1968). Part art, part visual poetry, it's a book 
of photographs of random words. ''Now 
where's the FIG?" "Like chick inake A 
slick." Or, "Sweetie PIT isn't your label." 

A different showcase housed a powerful 
book about sexual assault 
a red sticker 
bearing the word ''RAPE" attached two 
stark-white flaps across the book's cover, 
patiendy waiting for a reader to come along 
and tear it in hal£ Nearby, another book 
was sprawled ope~ proudly displaying a 
black-and-white photograph of a man's 
hairy, buttocks. The book, "Impressions: 
A Pocket Manual for Aesthetic Wear," is 
a collection of tasteful nudes, with 
swatches of actual fabric covering the 
images. The book manifests its cheeki-
ness with painfully serious commentary 
inscribed alongside the naked rumps. 

But the irreverence of the images 
should come as no surprise, given the 
history and culture of the process. 

Lithography is, in a way, a process of 
contradictions, trying to make one point 
while inadvertently making another. It's 
the technique of "democratic multi-
ples" 
taking the power away from 
snooty gallery-owners and allowing 
artists to see through every detail of their 
work, from its creation to its distribution. 
Yet Norman Paris, Professor of Printing 
at the Yale School of Art says this isn't 
entirely so: In spite of an underlying 
"damn the establishment" mentality, he 
points out, "Lithography is a fine art, so 
it's just as much of a business~ ' 

As Paris argues, "Lith6 g.t:.!lphy is a 
culture that tries to speak about rpass 
culture without being mass cultur~, per. 
se. "But this is what makes lithographs 
paradoxical: The exhibit's Pop Art era 
collection seems to poke fun at mass 
culture, yet its images are produced on 
the same machines as newspapers, busi-
ness materials, and ads, making them a 
distinct part of the very mass consumer 
culture that they satirize. And although 
lithographers harp on "conceptual 
underpinnings" and other lofty ideals, 
the medium's popularity stems largely 
from the fact that lithography is relative-
ly cheap, and easy, too 
at least com-
pared to its predecessors, carved wood 
and stone. 

Now that the Sterling's exhibit is 
over, the lithographs of buttocks and 
accordions are safely tucked away in 
Sterling's stacks. But in spite of the rise 
of ink-jet printing, the process of 
lithography lingers. Just as ~ 
are suck-
ers for scandal, it seems that there is 
something irresistible about the vaguely 
contradictory and irreverent process of 
lithography. 

A chance to "screw the 
establishment," too good to pass up? 
The results of the process, such as a 
flip-book of a housewife morphing into 
Wonder Woman, are just farcical enough 
to catch our eyes. So is lithography a 

**Lithography's Fine Art**
**Author: Lauren Harrison**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
reproduction of an image, or a brand
new production?
Is it a critique of
mass culture or a part of it? A printing
process or a fine art? It is hard to say.
But when it comes to the results of
lithography, one thing is certain: This
art is fine, indeed.
-Lauren Harrison
Out of Print


**Yale's Printing Presses: A Trip Back in Time**
**Author: Karla Chien**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

AT YALE, STUDENTS HIT EACH OTHER
.
with foam swords in a role-play of a
medieval war battle
and are not judged
negatively. The University fosters a fasci-
nation with reliving the past; everyone
should have a chance to time travel
at
'
least once in a while. In the basements of
many .es~oential colleges, next to squash
courts, _ cinemas, and computer clusters,
there are ornate _ __..printing press rooms
. r
-~
("
..
featunng, ~edjqology from the 15th cen-
• .r-. .~;
.,.... -
;
,
tury wher:e: stil4e~s use the past to make
things perniaiferif"' ·
',_
r
•
Half of Yale's residential colleges-
Berkeley, Branford, Jonathan Edwards,
Pierson/Davenport,
Silliman,
and
Timothy Dwight
have printing press
facilities. Lining their walls are hundreds
of trays of type, each piece made of lead
and a uniform 0.918 inches high.
Despite its deceptively miniature size, a
single piece of type is comprised of
many parts. The most obvious is the _
face
the letter or character cast in relief
at the top. Type is mosdy sorted on a
tray known as the "California Job Case,"
a user-friendly apparatus developed to
move type across the country during the
Gold Rush and separated into various
compartments, the size and order of
which are based on how frequendy each
character appears in the Bible. Upper
cases are on one side, lower cases on
another; numbers are in another area;
commonly used letters have a larger
compartment than lesser-used letters;
letters that are often used next to each
other are placed side by side. The ca's, for
example, are next to the cr's.
Though
this setup is at first difficult to memo-
rize, like the layout of a- keyboard, it
becomes easy to sort and replace type
with practice.
In addition to the walls of type, there
February 2006
-----------------
• •
In the basement press, a California Job Case set looks toward stacks rf leading, awaiting a student printer.' .
are also-of course
the printing presses
themselves. Though all somewhat differ-
ent, each machine resembles an awkward
loom. The presses consist of impression
cylinders to roll the paper, inking plates,
levers, and several wheels.
Yale's college printing presses are not
far removed from their 15th century
ancestors.
The key difference between
these presses is the reason for their
usage
the printer's motivation.
Five
hundred years ago, printing presses were
the only publishing technique available; in
2006, letterpress stems from a quirky
interest. It takes a certain personality to
spend hours upon hours in a printing
press room, pouring sweat, tears, and
sometimes blood into a creation that
could be seemingly replicated on a com-
puter. Printers are committed to the cre-
ation of a certain aesthetic and enjoy a
satisfaction that working with a mouse
and a screen cannot match. Joseph Luna
'06, a chief printer of Jonathan Edwards
College, says that there is a "printer's
breed" of people possessing "infinite
patience" who are wming to "stt ive for
printer perfection." This "breed" appreci-
ates the subtle difference between a grain-
less, flat laser printout, and a thick, hand-
pressed paper.
The tedium of the process cannot be
overstated. During the Pierson/Davenport
•r
"Journeymen Course" in printing, the ·
instructor and Pierson Fellow, David Rose
'80 printed an announcement leaflet for
the unveiling of a portrait of Pierson
College's Master Goldblatt. The final doc-
ument was simple: an 8 Vz by 11 inch piece
of paper folded in half that read, "Pierson
College, A Por_ttait of the Master."
Pressed for time, Rose was not working
with his usual meticulousness, but it still
took him two hours to assemble the type
of only seven words and then additional
time to print. One can only imagine how
long it must have taken him to produce
one of the crowning achiements of his
printing career at Yale, Benjamin Franklin's
'~dvice on the Choice of a MistreSs."
When he first began, Rose had to teach
himself how to print: so he started collect-
ing printer manuals. Today, he has over
five thousand manuals
more than any-
one in the country.
By day, Rose runs a technology com-
pany.
While his job and his printing
hobby seem to be in opposition, printers
are often well versed in the computer
world, and many feel that their printing
ability informs their digital graphic design
skills. In the 21st century, printing is, after
all, about turning the new into the old.
-Karla Chien



**A Tattoo Artist's Journey**
**Author:  [Author Name Not Provided]**
**Page number(s): 14**

"I
was walking down Chapel Street one day two years ago,"
Steve Maler explains to me at The Edge Tattoo Parlor,
-
which bo!ders the New Haven Green. "~nd I thought, 'I
need to get a red star tattooed on my neck.' So I walked in
here, and this guy Jeffrey gave me the star, and we became
good friends."
Steve is 26, white, and remarkably tall and thin. When he walks, he floats,
leaning forward a bit and striding slowly. The Adam's apple on his skinny neck
bobs as he speaks. The star on the neck symbolizes nothing; Steve simply thought
it would look cool. Indeed it does, while announcing both whimsy and daring:
One's neck, unless it's very muscled, is a particularly painful place to get tattooed.
When Jeffrey noticed that Steve was always drawing and doodling, he
taught hitn how to tattoo at home. Later, The Edge offered Steve a job, so he hap-
pily quit his post at an aluminum factory to become a professional tattoo artist.
He's been at The Edge since last February, and is delighted with his life now: "I
love coming to work every day, while I used to hate it."
14
THE NEW JOURNAL



**Title: The Edge**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
' 
he interior of the large 
shop is tidy and tastefully 
decorated, even elegant. 
Imitation Tiffany lamps hover on 
various counters, joined by stone 
gargoyles that recall Yale's gothic 
architecture. To the right of the 
lobby, a corner nook is full of 
((' en 
ears a o) 
ow, 
ave one) 
books that offer inspiration for tat-
toos. The library 'includes several 
coloring books featuring pictures of 
"prehistoric mammals" or "medici-
nal plants," the full series of' Disney 
Beginning Readers, 
Ranger Rick 1 
Best Friends, The Fami!J Life of Birds, 
A 
Handbook of. Greek Art, and 
Lettering and Lettering Display. The 
lobby and the anterior tattoo area 
are divided by a counter where I sit 
and chat with waiting customers. 
About half the clientele are walk-
ins, the other half appointments. 
Often customers come in with their 
own image in mind, or have an idea 
of what they want and work with an 
artist to design it. Others choose 
from the "flash," the posters of 
commercial tattoo designs that 
hang all over the shop. Behind the 
counter, the tattoo area itself .con-
sists of four stations stocked with 
the necessary needles, inks, and 
miscellaneous jars and bottles. All 
surfaces are gray or black, and look 
sterile and new. This being the week 
before Halloween, occasional plas-
tic skulls accompany the vats of 
vaseline at some of the station. 
The Edge, open from 1 to 8 p.m. 
16 
. 
daily, is a well-run establishment, 
due in no small part to Tyrone's 
management. He's worked here · for 
almost the full decade the shop has 
been around. The company owns 
three other branches in Connecticut 
and Rhode Island. On Chapel 
Street, sometimes an artist will


barter for a tattoo . in exchange for 
another service. -Tyrone explains, 
"You give me your used car, I give 
you a $600 sleeve." (A "sleeve" is a 
tattoo that covers one's whole arm.) 
He 
continues, 
"We 
say we're 
pirates 
you know, 'cuz all they did 
was barter. A . little Chapel Street 
joking thing .. " 


ike the red star on his neck, 
Steve's other tattoos 
or 
"tats" 
recall details of his 
life. He shows me the green flames 
on his thumb, done by Jeffrey when 
the two had just become friends . 
His right arm boasts a bright sun 
held by a darkly-colored Chernabog, 
the villain from Fantasia. The sun 
was done on Steve's 18th birthday; 
only recently did Jeffrey give 
Chernabog some color. "I'm really 
into the old Disney scene," Steve 
tells me. ''And late '80s, early '90s 
TV cartoons. Have you seen the 
new 
image 
of 
Strawberry 
Shortcake? It sucks!" 
Around Steve's neck hangs a red 
tat of a chain and dog-tag, not an 
uncommon design. In bubble let-
ters, the tag reads, "Groove is in the 
-
• ,_ 
Heart." Steve has to enlighten me: 
"That's a Delight song. 
It just 
works, because I think music is one 
of the most important things. I like 
dancing, too." His taste in music is 
eclectic: Beatles, The Cure, Biggie 
Smalls, Wu Tang Clan, Beastie Boys, 
Massive Attack, and other electron-
es . 
e no 
avzn 
a ve 
ic and trance music. On 'Steye's right 
calf, a red-headed girl lifts u:P:§:·her 
shirt to reveal her midriff. This is 
Steve's own work: "Eventually I'll 
make it really extra-special. .. It's 
gonna take a while 'til I get my own 
style. What I _ really want to do is 
pointillism, shading." He'd like to 
take figure drawing classes so that 
he's "not just copying cartoons and 
Maxim and other shit like that." 
He'd also like to study photography, 
learn to use Photoshop, practice 
piano, take up snowboarding, and 
draw more . 
The first time I met Steve, he 
gave me his trademark handshake, a 
four-step maneuver he picked up a 
decade ago from a friend. He says 
he uses it "with almost everyone, 
even old people." Steve's girlfriend, 
Alyssa, confinns: "He acts goofy 
even with people he doesn't know." 
He makes no pretense of politesse or 
machismo. He eagerly shows me 
designs he's working on for upcom-
ing appointments: a horizontal rose 
rippling the water it lies. on; a nauti-
cal star for Alyssa; the elaborately 
lettered word "MOTIVATION," 
surrounded by stacks of cash and 




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• • 
• 
I 
"-
marijuana leaves. 

While we talk, Jess, th,e only 
female artist at The Edge comes 
over. She is short and tough-look-
ing, often glowering. ''Whatcha 
doin'? ," she asks Steve.


"Eating dinner." 

Jess gives him the finger. She 
later tells me, "Steve and I 
understand each other. He's 
unique. He wears women's sun-
glasses 
yellow tinted, pink, or 
sparkly." Steve loves to sail fris-
bees 
across 
Chapel 
Street. 
He rides down steep hills in a 
roily chair. 

When asked to describe 
S'teve, his close friend Farleigh 
recitt;S _the nonsense sounds 
"Mao mao mao," like an incanta-
tion, 
the~ .. 
explains, 
"This 
describ~cs
Stev€'s 
sense 
of 
humor. - H~'lJ; )tfs~ say this whep. 
he has nQ'tliifl.gelse 'to say. And 
when he picks up the phone, 
he'll say random words or stut-
ter, 'Hey, hi, hello, hey, hi, hi.' ... 
He's 
a good guy." Tyrone, 
the manager of The Edge, says, 
·"He's such a calm individual, 
he's a pleasure to work with. 
An old-school tattoo 
artist 
would say to me, 'Who · the hell 
are you?"' 

Tyrone, a fit, short 35 year-
old black man with several facial 
piercings and arm tattoos, offers 
this recent history of the busi-
ness: "Ten years ago, tattooing 
wasn't something to do. Now, I 
get doctors, lawyers, judges. If 
you don't have one, it's like 
not having a vehicle. It's like"-
and then he assumes a high, 
incredulous voice 
"'You ain't 
got a car?l' 'You ain't got a tat-
too?! Why not?"' 

"Old school" tattoo artists 
come from a lineage- of to1;1gh 
guys 
and 
troublemakers. 
Tattooing came to Europe after 
mid-16th century. sailors encoun-
February 2006 
tered the art among Polynesian 
islanders. 
Later, tattooing was 
practiced mainly by marginalized 
groups, such as circus perform-
ers, criminals, and French revo-
lutionaries. The first mention of 
the word "tattoo" in English lies 
in the journals of the British 
Captain James Cook, who sailed 
around the Pacific and spent 
time with the Tahitians. In 1769, 
he wrote, "Both sexes paint their 
Bodys, Tattow, as it is called in 
their Language. This is done by 
inlaying the Colour of Black 
under their skins, in such a man-
ner as to be indelible." In the 
Tahitian language, Tattow means 
"the results of tapping or strik-
ing." Cook's recording of the 
word coincided with the rising 
trend among European sailors, 
so it stuck. 

In the East, like in Polynesia, 
the custom has traditionally been 
associated with spirituality; in 
the West, with subversion. The 
early Jewish, 
Christian, 
Muslim traditions all prohibited 
tattoos, and both the ancient 
Judea-Christian 
Greco-
Roman cultures associated tat-
tooing with barbarians, slaves, 
and the poor. To be tattooed 
indicated that one was under 
someone 
else's 
power. 
Supposedly, the Roman emperor 
Caligula once commanded all of 
his citizens to get tattooed, pure-
ly for his entertainment. Two 
thousand years later and halfway 
around the world, the Patau 
Islanders in 1832 forced the cap-
tured American sailor Horace 
Holden to endure full-body tat-
tooing. While Caligula's citizen 
had no recourse but to oblige 
their sadistic ruler, back home in 
New Hampshire, Holden wrote a 
bestseller about his experience. 
Just as being forced to get a 
tattoo indicates subservience 



**Title: The Tattoo Parlor**
**Author: Emily [Last Name not provided]**
**Page number(s): 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Steve traces a tattoo design wi'th attention. Thi's first step i'n the process allows tattoo artists the most freedom. 
getting one voluntarily indicates 
dominance and power. Tattooing, 
like prostitution, concerns control 
of one's body and, by extension, of 
one's identity. 


In America, the popularity of 
tattooing has been on the rise since 
the mid-19th centuiy. N ev.ertheless, 
it has been subject to its fair share 
of scorn. During World War I, the 
Navy banned tattoos, with the 
desired result of a healthier crew, 
and the unintended result of new 
recruits 
wearing 
corsets 
and 
camisoles to cover their chest 
tats. In the 1920s, the conservative, 
law-obsessed impulse that 
bred 
Prohibition 
prompted 
many 
American cities and states, includ-
ing New York, to outlaw tattooing 
altogether. 


Since the 1980s, American tat-
too culture has been shedding its 
exclusive associations with rebels 
and bikers. People with tattoos are 
now as likely to drive a Volvo as a 
Harley, and artists are as likely to 
be MFA candidates in need of a job 
as ex-cons in need of a pay stub. 


Today, a tattoo indicates an 
aspect of one's identity more than 
it does rebellion. In the days after 
9/ 11, Tyrone and his crew gave 
free· tattoos memorializing the 
event. They were overwhelmed the 
abundance of people, many of 
whom were first-time tattooees, 
wanting flags, eagles, the Twin 
Towers, and even the planes crash-
ing 
into 
the 
towers. 
HUs 
Americans," 
says Tyrone, 
'·'We 
don't want to be left out of some-
thing, and we want to show our 
heritage. So we get tats." 


What accounts for this main-
streaming? Perhaps in such an 
unsettled political ·climate, people 
get tats because they offer some-
thing permanent in a world in flux. 
Perhaps Americans love to catego-
rize themselves. Or perhaps people 
get tats to invite conversation. At 
least, these are some of the theories 
academics propose. In the last ten 
years, as much ink has been spilled 
writing about tattooing as has been 
used in tattoos themselves. Not 
only are there a dozen tattoo maga-
zines, but scholars have pounced on 
the subject, writing books such as 
Bodies of Inscription: A 
Cultural 
History 
of 
Modern 
Tattoo 
Community and Mutilating the Bot!J: 
Identity in Blood and Ink. There are 
several country-specific histories of 
tattooing, and several accounts of 
the connection between tattooing 
and the sea-trade. And although tat-
tooing has vaulted into the special-
ized world of academia, it is a rare 
Yalie who moves 
beyond the 
anthropologic study of a tattoo and 
actually gets one. Most of the cus-
tomers at this New Haven parlor, 
one block from campus, are from 
outside the University system. 


had feared tough-guy postur-
ing when I first ventured to 
The Edge, but I do not find 
much. The second time I come into 
the shop, Tyrone tells Coniah, one 
of his main artists, "Be nice to 
Emily, here." Coniah, ~s-tuoent at 
Paire Arts School, seems suspicjous 
but soon warms up. When a cus-: 
tomer asks if I am there to get tat-
tooed, Coniah jokes, "We'll strap 
her to a chair soon enough." And 
Sebastian, a 32 year-old, unusually 
talented, handsome, and wisecrack-
ing artist with whom I had original-
ly met some resistance, adds, "She's 
from Yale 
they're sending their 
spies down here!" 


One Wednesday, as I watch 
Ralph, another artist, tattoo a drag-
onfly onto the left wrist of a 55 
year-old woman, he asks me why I 
wanted to write about The Edge. 
Many customers and other artists 
here have asked me this, and have 
been intrigued when I've told them, 
"I wanted to explore the tattoo 
world because it's totally foreign to 
me." I have been flattered when 
customers have assumed I am there 
to get a tattoo myself. Real(y, me? 
Thank goodness, I don't look like a total 
square! But I should not be so flat-
tered: A?ryone might get a tattoo 
these days, even a 55 year-old social 
worker with big glasses and a grand-
motherly haircut. Ralph is not 



**Title: The Edge**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
intrigued by my answer; he is indig-
nant: "You think this is the tattoo 
world?! It used to be guys on 
Barleys. This is the way the industry 
is going · it's Star bucks, it's main-
stream." 

As the industry has grown, there 
• 
have been more and more tattoo 
conventions across America, at 
which renowned artists give custom 
tattoo~ ~p.d compete for prizes that 
recognize their work. Ralph regular-
ly werit to conventions until, at one 
organized,··;..-by Hell's Angel's, a 
woman
1~w0!( "'ajprize for cosmetic 
tattooingJ.f"~y<;,liner~ ~alph's disillu-
sionment' grew 
when 
Harley-
Davidson, Warner Brothers, and 
Walt Disney sued tattoo parlors for 
using copyrighted logos: "Come on, 
people have been getting tats of 
Mickey Mouse since he was invent-
ed. And now yuppie ass wants 
Mickey Mouse." 

et Steve still feels at_ home, · 
despite being opposite of 
the stereotypically surly 
"old-school tattoo artist" to which 
Tyrone referred. He grew up in a 
middle-class, three-child family in 
North Branford. The Malers have 
always been involved with arts and 
crafts, and they approve of Steve's 
career path. Steve has loved to draw 
since childhood, and took art as his 
only honors class in high school. 
Between high school and The Edge, 
he went through some rough titnes. 
He explains, "I was just a real bad 
kid for years 
drinking and drugs ... 
I don't think there's a chernical out 
there that I didn't use in extreme 
amounts. I had my fun. But then it 
February 2006 
just becomes horrible. You don't 
realize there is another way." Steve 
helped overcome his addictions by 
going to AA meetings, at which 
Jeffrey joined him. He considered 
becoming a nurse, but is happy to 
have fallen into the right business. 
( 
He says, "The only thing that keeps 
me sober is helping others." Steve 
currently lives with his parents and 
their relationship is better than ever. 
Since July, he has been casually dat-
ing Alyssa, a pretty, petite 18 year-
old bartender whom he met when 
she came in for her first tattoo, a 
moon on her foot. 

Ralph is a kinder version of what 
Tyrone calls "an old-school tattoo 
artist." While skulls litter the Edge 
to honor Halloween, at Ralph's sta-
tion they sit year-round. There they 
-;-.-> 
_:· 
:-. ·: 
. 
~«~-
-
are joined by a skeleton and demon-
. ic jester, both of which dangle from 
Ralph's lamp. Bio-hazard stickers 
stipple- everything. A book titled 
Dogs: How to Draw Them sits near his 
Tupperware jars. 'Ralph' is a fake 
name, because after ·numerous 
'' 
scrapes with the law he is a bit para-
noid. As we talk he looks away from 
me, loudly clinking needles into jars. 

He is a white, middle-aged, former 
biker with a square torso and a 
tremendous belly. A thick lip-barbell 
and triangular silver studs between 
his eyebrows, combined with his . 
many and macho tattoos 
King 
Neptune, 
tombstones, 
eagles, 
knives, daggers, wizards, a guy in 
quicksand holding up his middle 
finger 
make him look more threat-
ening than the rest of the artists at 
Chapel Street's The Edge Tattoo parlor awaits customers with open doors. 


--- Page 20 ---

:-· 
:·.· 
,. 
' •, / 
·,•'•' 
' 
'• 
.. 
. . 
-.::. 
•' 
: ;-
,•: 
A full usleeve" can cost upwards of six h11ndred dollars or, if you want to barter, a used car. 

The Edge. But he acts gentler than 
he looks . 

Like many middle-aged tattooed 
men, Ralph got his first tattoos at 
home when he "started messin' 
around real young with India in~." 
He has been giving tats all over 
Connecticut since 1987. Right now 
he is on probation (he won't tell me 
why) and is working at The Edge 
because it is the only parlor in New 
Haven that gives a pay stub, which 
the probation officer requires . 

Unlike Steve and Coniah, Ralph 
never studied art before learning to · 
tattoo. "I didn't get into the busi-
ness to tattoo," he explains, "I got 
into the business for the money." 
And the money is good: A tat-
too artist can . take home up to 
$1500 a week. The 
artist~ split 
their profits with the' tore, bqt 
at $150/tattoo, each of w~ich 
takes around an hour, the net prof-
it accumulates. Despite Ralph's 
intimidating facade, the fact that 
he makes a good living from tattoo-
ing reveals that in addition to 
being a skilled artist, he is agreeable 
with customers. 

t The Edge, I don't see much 
of the 
"yuppie ass" to 
which Ralph referred, but I 
do see a diverse crowd. I meet Keri, 
a sensitive 1 7 year-old waiting for 
her fiancee to finish getting the Bio-
hazard symbols tattooed on his 
wrists. She has a black tribal decal 
on her lower back, as do many tat-
tooed young women. I meet Jim, an 
18 year-old getting the logo fot:. the 
straight-edge lifestyle (a vertical "X 
X X") tattooed on his right calf. He 
explains to me that he doesn't 
smoke, drink, or do drugs, but he's 
not as conservative as straight-edge 
kids who abstain from tattoos . 

Neither Keri nor Jim, nor any other 
teenager I meet, gets grief about 
tats from their parents. Some par-
ents are even inspired to follow 


--- Page 21 ---

their kids' lead. 

Christina, a statuesque, glowing, 
48 year-old blonde with an MBA, 
quit her job as a CEO of the 
Wadsworth Atheneum to become a 
massage therapist a year ago. She 
received her first, subtle . tattoo (a 
butterfly) at 35, but now says, "I'm · 
braver. I wanted to do what I want-
ed to do. I'm more comfortable let-
ting people know who I am." 

e 
All the artists at The Ec:lge 
except Steve and Ralph believe 
strongly that tats should be mean-
ingful. Steve has no clear ideology 
on the issue 
his philosophy is: 
Get whatever makes you happy. 
Ralph snorts at the idea that tats 
"should" have meaning. But then 
he tells me that each of his tattoos, 
· while not having symbolic value, is 
a happy reminder of the friend 
know about it." And so he walks me 
through the tattooing process as we 
sit at his station. It is sparsely dec-
orated~ On his counter sit two 
framed photos, one of the singer 
Prince (Steve's "higher_ power," 
notes a friend of his), the other a 
still from the film of The Outsiders 
(when I 
say I 
knew 9nly of 
the 
novel, 
Steve 
·jokes, 
"You 
would"). Steve's sketchbook lies 
exce 
e zeve s ron 
e meanzn -
·-
as no 
eo o 
on 
e zssue-
--• 
z oarl-
zs: 
.,., -• 
L 
~ ' 
_,.-F2 
"" 
;.----
r-
1 
--
_, 
. ,.. -~~ 
~ 
J 
r 1 
..-
... - /
r 
r.r 
;. 0 _.__..IV' T 
.• : 
.-
, ,_. 
~. 
Jt;;;..._ 
,-£ 
.... 
Coniah is tattooing the Chinese 
words "healing woman," as well as a 
peacock, which symbolizes "god-
dess" in tantric philosophy on her 
left leg. Coniah designed the image 
just for her. Two real peacock feath-
ers are draped Coniah's station. 
Christina, 
sprawled 
out on 
a 
stretcher like a reclining deity, keeps _ 
looking down her leg with pleasure 
at the evolving tat. She murmurs, 
"Isn't it beautiful?" 

Though abundantly-tattooed 
women occasionally feel disrespect-
ed, most women receive compli-
ments on their tats 
frotn cowork-
ers and friends, if they have visible 
tats, or from lovers and gynecolo-
gists, if they have more hidden ones. 
Men are more likely to have multi-
ple, visible tattoos, and so are more 
likely to feel judged by the non-tat-
tooed. Sebastian, an artist who is 
pretty much covered in black tats, 
reports, "I go to the doctor's and 
they look at me like I'm halfway 
dead already. Old male doctors espe-
cially are like that." 
who gave him that particular tat-
too, even if the friendship faded 
long ago. 

If the artist doesn't like a cus-
tomer's idea for a tat, he or she will 
try to tactfully talk the customer out 
of it. Steve once refused to do a tat-
too of the yellow brick road, 
"because the perspective was all 
wrong and too difficult." 

Tyrone 
forces his customers to think seri-
ously about their whimsical ideas: 
"Don't just get a heart or a rose 
because 'it's feminine.' Do you like 
hearts? 
Do 
you 
like 
roses?" 

Sebastian was once asked to tattoo 
argyle socks onto an old man's feet. 
He told the guy, ''You're an idiot." 

t is a privilege to see how a 
tattoo is made. Many artists 
believe that the art 
must 
pass only from artist to artist, not 
from a book. Coniah explains, 
"Only when [knowledge of a craft] 
becomes popular does an art form 
die." But Steve believes that "if 
somebody's interested, they should 
open revealing anime drawings, car-
toon faces that Steve calls "crazy 
head pictures," and many sketches 
for tatto·o designs. 

Steve places the materials neces-
sary for a tat · on the counter. He 
smears Vitamin A and D ointment 
onto a large popsicle stick so that it 
will hold tiny plastic pots of glyc-
erin ink. He shows me the two 
kinds of needle-tools used for 
every tat job 
one for outlining, 
the other for coloring. Both resem-
ble little guns with long needles 
instead of a bullet-shaft. In the 
ftrst kind, five needles pack closely 
together; in the second, the five are 
spaced more widely apart. The nee-
dles are actually very thin tubes 
that take up ink if touched into a 
pot. Out of the guns' handles twist 
cords that connect to a foot pedal 
on the floor. Ste e taps the pedal, 
demonstrating how the needles 
(currently empty) would spin to 
release ink. Then we move to the 
back room, where he prepares the 
skin-transferable print of a con-



**Title: The Whitney Lectures in the Humanities**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I I 
The Whitney Lectures 
in the Humanities 
Wednesdays at 7 p.m. 
Whitney Humanities Center, 
53 Wall Street 
Free and open to the public 
"The Aesthetics of 
O ccupation: Arts and Politics 
of Everyday Life 
in Fascist Occupied Europe" 
February 15 
PETER DE.METZ, Sterling Professor 
Emeritus of Germanic Languages and 
Literatures, Yale University 
"Prague Movies: The Years of Occupation" 
(lecture with film clips) 
February 22 
MALIN WAHLBERG, Research Fellow, 
Department of Film Studies, Stockholm 
University; Postdoctoral Fellow, Yale Film 
Studies Program 
"Everyday Life in the Shadow of War: Peter 
Forgacs and the Alternative Archive of 
Amateur Film" {Lecture with film clips, fol-
lowed by a video screening of The Maelstrom: 
A Family Chronicle (Peter Forgacs, 
Netherlands, 1997, 60 min.) 
March 1 
MILLICENT MARCUS, Professor of Italian 
and Film Studies, Yale University 
"When Life Was Not So Beautiful: Italy, 1938 
in the Films of Ettore Scola" 
March 22 
RICHARD MAXWELL, Senior Lecturer in 
Comparative Literature and English, Yale 
University 
' 
"Every Man a Murderer: Detection, Murder, 
and Occupation Noir" 
AprilS 
JULIA HELL, Associate Professor of 
German Studies, University of Michigan 
"Peter Weiss's The Aesthetic of Resistance: 
Art Against Politics" 
For more information contact 
Manana Sikic at 432-0673 or 
e-mail manana.sikic@yale.edu 
22 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Emify Koplry**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

joined sun and moon for an 
imminent appointment. He puts 
his 
drawing 
of 
the 
design 
between two sheets of chemical-
ly-coated paper, then runs the 
three sheets through a machine 
that makes transparencies. Out 
comes a purple print between the 
chemical-sheets. Steve will press 
this against the skin of the client. 
She arrives: Cindy, a cute 
blonde in her late twenties. She is 
cheerful, giggly, and dressed for a 
Gap ad. She is here for a cover-up 
of a moon on her belly, a tat she 
got in 1994. Cover-ups, along with 
tats that circumscribe the upper 
arm, are the bane of every tattoo 
artist. The latter requires an 
extremely calm, still patiet; a 
cover-up demands that the artist 
have great skill and humility. One 
needs skill to transform the origi-
nal design, and humility to face 
altering another artist's vision. 
Steve has designed a half-moon 
to fit over Cindy's faded crescent. 
H e takes a "before" photo of the 
crescent, then attempts to line up 
his print over the tat. He cleans 
Cindy's faded moon with rubbing 
alcohol, then swipes clear deodor-
ant over the skin so the print will 
stick. The print lines up only after 
three tries. Steve makes a new 
print and re-cleans the skin for 
each attempt. After the successful 
fourth try, Steve takes up the out-
lining needle and traces the purple 
print. Cindy does not flinch, 
reporting to me that "it doesn't 
really hurt, just feels a little irritat-
ing, like an ongoing bee-sting." 
After outlining, Steve switches to 
the coloring needle. Every trickle 
of color is dabbed and wiped with 
a paper towel. Soon Cindy's stom-
ach looks like a finger-painting 
project. Steve wipes another towel 
over the chaos, to clean away 
excess ink. Color stays only where 
the needle has actually touched the 
skin. When the tat is finished, 
Steve disinfects the needles in a 
hot sterilizing solution and throws 
them out. 
"In the old days, we used nee-
dles over and over," Ralph once 
tOld me with nostalgia. But 
Tyrone is proud of the cleanliness 
and safety of his parlor, which 
forbids pets, food, and smoking. 
Any impurity in the air might 
taint the ink, which in turn infects 
the bloodstream. Steve takes 
Cindy outside to look at her tat-
too in sunlight, and Sebastian 
comes along to approve the job. 
Once back indoors, Steve takes an 
"after" photo of that tat to add to 
his album of work. He then cov-
ers the sun and moon with 
Vitamin A and D ointment and 
tapes gauze over the ta>t with 
band-aids. He hands Cindy pack-
ets of the ointment to apply to 
the area for three to four days 
after. Cindy is clearly pleased with 
Steve's work. She thanks him and 
says goodbye. 


H 
ello," announces a cus-
tomer to Steve one day. 
He is a 
middle-aged 
black man with bulging, tat-cov-
ered arms. He is at once solemn 
and frustrated. "I had an appoint-
ment 
for 
right 
now 
with 
Sebastian, and he's not here. I 
need this tat. I just got back from 
my mother's funeral." He is here 
for the day from Florida, and 
Sebastian is the only tat artist he 
works 
anywhere. 
But 
Sebastian apparently forgQt the 
appointment. The man wants the 
image of praying hands (modeled 
after Durer's sculpture) entwined 
with a rosary tattooed on his 
upper arm. All the artists at The 
Edge 
know 
ho~ 
to 
do this popular image, but Steve 
is reluctant to take Sebastian's 
client. 
The fellow is desperate: 
THE NEW JOURNAL 

--- Page 23 ---

"Please, man. Make it special for 
me. Dude, I don't move." Steve 
considers a bit, and agrees to 
design the tat. He retreats to his 
en 
orse 
• 
own. zn 
ournzn 
station to sketch, while the man 
joins rpe.at the counter. 
L 
I hesitantly smile. He speaks 
-
first. "I take a lot of pride in this 
. .,. 
~,. 
place. §tev~, 
... 
'fo~ example, that's 
good that . h~'~ .... 4?irig my tat. I don't 
like to s~fo~tli[sc_,_ 'place slipping 
I 
mean, where's Sebastian?" I nod. I 
February 2006 
don't feel uncomfortable, just so_rt 
of baffled by the situation 
that 
this is where the man has come 
right after his mother's funeral, 
I got four kids 
daughters 
and 
with ·their . names here, that's 
unconditional love. Those kids are 
mine. It's not like. a marriage. When 
ero 
ran 
er 
a 
0 
J 
that I am the person he's talking to. 
I ask the man the same question 
I've been asking everyone at The 
Edge: Can you tell me about your 
tattoos? He extends his right arm 
near me, holding it so I can see a 
large cross on his biceps with 
names on each limb. "You see this? 
an 
on a 
e 
. 
zans 
you put that on your arm, that's 
total devotion." Then he starts 
weeping, pauses, and keeps talking. 
His eyes dry as he talks. 
His name is Chet McGill. He 
shows me his right arm, on which 
sprawls one of Sebastian's designs, 
an eagle killing a snake. "See, 
Sebastian thinks of me as a war-
rior 
an eagle 
because that rep-
resents strength." And there is 
precedent for his getting a tattoo in 
memory of a loved one: When 
Chet's Cherokee grandmother died, 
Sebastian designed a tattoo of 
an Indian on a horse for Chet's 
upper back, the Indian's head down 
1n mourn1ng. 
Steve finishes Chet's design in 
about twenty minutes. Chet has 
invited me to watch him get the 
tat, so I perch on Steve's counter 
to watch him work. His job right 
now seems enormously important. 
This would-be nurse and dedicat-
ed artist with a natural bedside 
manner is far from the old-school 
bully-tattooer. He rolls up Chet's 
sleeve and begins to tattoo the 
praying hands. 
Emify Koplry, a Senior in Branford 
College, is on the staff of TN]. 
T :'\:.I 
23 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In December 2004, Teri Stone-Godena and three other 
midwives gathered in a ·New Haven home to do what- . 
they do best: deliver a baby. The set-up was markedly 
different from the cramped hospital room most people 
believe to be the most suitable place for a woman to give 
birth. Instead of disconnected P.A. announcements, the 
only background noise was the low murmur of the midwives' voices. Instead 
of neutral beige walls and tackily upholstered chairs, the mother-to-be, 
Arianna Stein, was surrounded by the familiar comforts of her own kitchen . 
And, instead of lying on a sterile, mechanical bed, she relaxed in the warm 
water of a birthing pool. 
The woman and her husband, Josh, remained in the pool for her entire 
12-hour labor. "She gave birth to Gracie in the tub," Stone-Godena said. 
"And then she pulled Gracie up 
Gracie didn't remain floating underwater-
she pulled Gracie up to her chest and we wrapped them all in a nice warm 
towel that we'd heated in the microwave." 




**Title: The Midwives of New Haven**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
his story could be misconstrued 
to support the notions most peo-
ple have about midwives: uncon-
ventional, placenta-eating relics of a time 
when medical knowledge was 
· · 
at best 
and flat out dangerous at worst And while 
Stone-Godena cheekily combated the stereo-
type by posting a sign reading ''No, You May 
Not Bring Your Dog in To Eat the Placenta" 
on the wall of a birth center where she once 
worked, today's midwives serve a larger and . 
more varied group of patients than the gen-
eral population assumes. Arianna Stein is not 
a nec>-hippie; she is .a midwife herself, who 
wanted to give birth among her own. Her 
husband. is not an uninformed follower of 
alternative medicine; he is a doctor. And 
Stone-Godena herself remembered Gracie's 
birth from her office at the Yale School of 
Nursing, where she is a lecturer, blocks away 
from Yale-New Haven hospital, where she 
practices the majority of her midwifery. 
In the United States, one out of every ten 
babies is delivered by a midwife. In New 
Haven, the percentage is much higher 
one 
out of every three babies at Yale-New Haven 
Hospital is delivered by a midwife. The Yale 
School of Nursing is largely responsible for 
this number. It is one of a handful of institu-
tions in the country that offers a nurse-mid-
wife program, and many of its. graduates 
choose to remain in New Haven. 
Although New Haven is an extreme exam-
ple, midwifery is a common phenomenon in 
the United States. Today's midwives have lit-
tle in common with those mentioned in high 
school history lessons; they are not grizzled 
old women who attend childbirths armed 
only with knowledge accumulated through 
trial and (often fatal) error. Modern mid-
wifery is an extension of conventional medi-
cine; almost all midwives graduate from an 
institutional program like the one at Yale's 
School of Nursing, which trains students as 
midwives and nurses.· Most go on to either 
work at hospitals or join · private obstetrics 
and gynecology practice. 
But in spite of their pervasiveness and 
qualifications, midwives often find' them-
selves struggling to prove their legitimacy to 
patients. "It always comes back to that con-
cept of people who don't know about mid-
wives saying 'Why would you see a mid-
wife? You have private insurance, you have 
enough money to see a doctor,"' said 
Debbie Cibelli, who, along with her busi-
ness partner I jnda Lisk, operates one of 
the few midwife-owned ·practices in 
Connecticut. But while she may be skeptical 
at first, once a woman begins to see a mid-
wife, whether she actively seeks one out or, 
more likely, stumbles across one in a physi-
cian practice, statistics show that she is 
unlikely to return to physician care for 
future childbirths or regular gynecologist 
appointments. Such women value the 
unique kind of care that midwives offer, 
where basic medical techniques used by 
'\:: .... ·. 
:-. 
Midwives Linda !Jsk, right, and Debbie Gbelli own their practice on Prince Street. 
28 
physicians are complemented by a degree 
of empathy and personal attention rarely 
found in modern medicine. 


ight years ago, Alycia Clune expe-
rienced what she had believed to 
be impossible: She became preg-
nant. Clune and her husband, Tim, had 
been plagued by severe fertility problems 
and had resigned themselves to not having 
children. When she discovered that she was 
carrying their son, Clune knew that she 
wanted to take every measure to ensure her 
pregnancy's success. Having spent years as a 
nurse in the obstetrics department at 
Bridgeport Hospital, Clune was aware of 
the risks associated with childbirth. But, 
unlike many women in her position, she did 
not want her pregnancy micromanaged by 
physicians, reduced to blood counts, ultra-
sound images, and amniocentesis results. 
She wanted a midwife. 
"I never wanted the people I worked with 
to take care of me," Clune said. She -turned 
instead to Dr. Marshall Holley, ~ the New 
""' 
Haven obstetrician ap.d gynecologist w ho 
first diagnosed the Clune's fertility "prob-' 
lems. In choosing Holley, Clune was not 
simply seeking a doctor outside of her 
workplace. Holley's practice employed two 
midwives, Cibelli and Lisk, who worked 
with him for over twenty years before estab-
lishing their own practice upon his retire-
ment. After observing thousands of babies 
delivered by physicians, Clune had decided 
that she wanted a midwife to be the primary 
attendant at her son's birth. Having seen 
midwives in action, she knew that she would 
be 
receiving excellent medical 
care. 
Moreover, she knew that she would be more 
comfortable in their hands. 
"Everyone tells you that childbirth is nor-
mal, but I saw a lot of women in fear," 
Clune said. "I just saw that there was some-
thing that midwives gave that inspired 
trust." The current trend in obstetrics.-
towards large practices with a multitude of 
-
physicians 
makes it difficult for patients to 
forge personal connections. So, when a 
woman enters the hospital in labor, as Clune 
had observed time after time, she is often 
ten ified. In contrast, every time Clune had 
an appointtnent at Dr. Holley's office, she 
saw either Cibelli or Lisk And during her 
labor, which was overseen by Cibelli, she 
knew exactly whose hands she was in. 
When Clune fina11y went into labor, it last-


--- Page 29 ---

. 
' 
An artistic depiction o/ midwifery illustrates the bond between mother and the sisterhood of midwives . 
ed for 11,h~urs. She had been admitted i:o the 
hospital ~~veral days earlier, when doctors 
became concerned that her pregnancy had 
extended r;a~.t 41:~eeks: Four days before she 
gave birth,· f!reir; <;9'f1¢ern was heightened by 
her son's lacli-,~f'~6 -emer:t, .and eventua11y 
--
he was hom With his umbilical cord 'Wrapped 
around his neck Though he was completely 
healthy, Clune's labor can hardly be character-
ized as easy. Nonetheless, when she remem-
bers it, her first words are in praise of Cibelli, 
who oversaw the birth. 
"She ran the whole room, but without 
seeming like she had an ego;' Clune said 
"She wasn't 
about another patient 
she had, it was just us." 
· 
''My husband and I were terrified," she 
added. ''We'd gone through so much. But she 
guided me, and she guided Tim, and kept him 
even keel" 
Two years later and against all odds, the 
Clunes found themselves expecting another 
son. Once again, they chose to have a mid-
wife attend the birth 
this time, Ijoda Lisk 
was on call And once again, complications 
ensued Although Clune was ultimately in 
labor for only two hours and gave birth to 
a healthy so~ his heart .rate began deceler-
ating, and an emergency Caesarian section 
became a possibility. Afraid for het; child, 
Clune panicked. 
"I came as close as you can come to 
freaking out without completely losing it," 
Clune said. ''I knew too much. At one 
point, Linda took her thumb and put it 
between my eyes on the bridge of my 
nose ... Wha~ver she did with that touch, it 
- . 
February 2006 
worked 
I relaxed. It turns out it was just 
an old midwife trick that she'd learned. I'm 
a nurse, and I don't ever remember seeing 
that in my twenty years of nursing." 
idwives perform the same 
bloodwork, risk assessments, 
prenatal exams, and ulttasounds 
as physicians; but their draw lies in what they 
provide in addition. ''Physicians are really 
educated in the abnormal, and midwives, 
their education focuses on the normal," 
· Cibelli said. ''We spend much more time talk-
ing about nutrition and the psychological 
aspects of the pregnancy, how it may or may 
not affect the household or the family or the 
other siblings at home, if that's relevant" 
Midwives are taught to view pregnancy as a 
natural condition, not an illness. Thus, they 
are able to view their patients as individuals, 
not cases. 
One of midwives' primary aims is to edu-
cate their patients. The fear that Alycia Clune 
observed in women while assisting deliveries 
is caused by a patients' lack of understanding 
what happens in labor and ignorance of their 
options. For example, many women view 
epidurals, an injection that numbs the body 
from the waist down, as harmless and a nec-
essary relief from the pains of childbearing. 
But epidurals come with risks of their own. 
They achieve their grand effect because anes-
thetic is injected into the fluid surrounding 
the spinal cord, and the procedure c~rries a 
small risk of 
and a larger risk of 
infections, sore backs, and headaches. 
Sometimes, epidurals do not work, leaving a 
certain area or even an entire side of the body 
in pain. And most often, the epidural fails to 
produce the desired numbness that the 
mother-to-be had expected. This is where 
midwives' role as instructors is key. 
''We do a huge amount of education 
before they get there," Stone-Godena said. 
''When the women we take care of ask for 
epidurals, they know what they're asking for. 
They don't just think it's something they've 
read about in a magazine, the be-ali, end-all" 
Thus, if the epidural, or any part of the labor, 
fails to occur as the mother-to-be envisioned, 
she at least understands why, and is spared 
the fear that ignorance can inspire. 
Midwives also include their patients' part-
ners in the process of birth. This is most 
clear in the delivery room itsel£ where mid-
wives take care to include partners in the 
process and often find themselves, as Gbelli 
did with Tim Clune, soothing the partner as 
well as the mother-to-be. Cibelli remetnbers 
one patient whose husband was not pleased 
that his wife was seeing a midwife rather than 
a doctor. 
"He was very uncomfortable with the 
whole thing," she said. But after th.e birth, the 
patient's husband had a radically different 
opinion of midwifery. ''He said to me, "Ibis 
is the first time when I've been at th.e birth of 
one of my children where I didn't feel like I 
was an outsider, that I was encouraged to par-
ticipate, that I felt like the person really knew 
my wife and cared about her." 
Midwives' attention to their patients' part-
ners does not end at birth. Like obstetricians, 
midwives carefully screen their patients to see 
29 


--- Page 30 ---

if they are at risk for post-partum depression 
and keep close tabs on thdr physical and 
mental health after the baby is hom. And 
while doing so, they extend an eye to their 
patients' partners as well 
"Partners get post-partum depression 
too, so we have to take care of the whole 
family," said Stone-Godena. "I think we 
sometimes forget, because the woman is 
bearing the physical burden and the hor-
monal burden, that sometimes the partner 
has to be strong. And they get fatigued, and 
they have a meltdown, and they aren't able 
to provide what they need for support · 
either. So we have to be prepared to take 
care of all of them, or set them up with 
someone to take care of all of them." 
On some occasions, midwifes simply go 
above and beyond what could reasonably be 
expected of any doctor. After the birth of 
her first child, Alycia Clune developed severe 
mastitis, an in 
tion of the breast that 
renders breast feeding extremely painful. But, 
after giving birth to a child 
the odds, 
she was 
to relinquish any aspect of 
motherhood. Her family did not understand. 
Cibelli did. Rather than refer her to a nurse or 
lactation specialist, Cibelli drove to Clune's 
house to personally assist her with her breast-
feeding. Twice. 
''What physician would do that?" Clune 
asked. 
n New Haven, midwives are a ubiq-
uitous part of OB/GYN practices. 
And some doctors do recognize that 
midwives provide patients with a type of care 
that, for practical reasons, they cannot. Soon 
after she began working alongside Dr. Holley, 
Debbie Cibelli asked him why he chose to 
include midwives in his practice rather than 
hire additional physicians. 
"He said, 'I thought my patients were 
going to get better care if they had that per-
sonaHzed approach and if they actua11y had 
someone that they knew with them when 
they were in labor,' she remembered. "He 
said, 'I'm a physician. I'm not going to sit at 
someone's bedside and rub their back and 
hold the bucket when they throw up. But 
midwives do that, and I think my patients get 
better care because of it."' 
Cibelli characte• izes Dr. Holley as a 
"unique" physician, one who genuinely 
believed that 
care would benefit 
his patients. And while it is ttne that some 
doctors are confident in the level of care 
30 
midwives provide, others are more motivated 
by economic incentives. Instead of seeing a 
midwives as a critical source of comfort-
stroking a patient's hair and murmuring · 
soothing words as she vomits 
they view 
them as people who will be spending time 
with their patient so they can be elsewhere, be 
it in the finanda1ly lucrative operating room 
or on the golf course. A midwife, who can 
perform routine examinations and assist in all 
( 
ou're 
care 
~~ 
. . 
erson on 
e 
Ust - a 
avzn 
0 
ou 
ou see? 
ea~ 
''' 
ozntment. . 
but the most complicated of births, is a far 
less expensive employee than another physi-
cian. Years ago, a small number of physicians 
caught wind of this idea, which spread in a 
domino effect. Now midwives are fixtures in 
many New Haven OB/GYN practices. 
''Whether it's fortunately or unfortunate-
ly, I think that a lot of the time when mid.:. 
wives are hired into physician practices, it's 
because physicians see them as an econom-
ic advantage, not necessarily because they 
buy into the philosophy of midwifery;' 
Cibelli said. 
By and large, midwives in the greater 
United States operate within the same con-
fines as their peers in New Haven: in partner-
ship with a physician. Those striving to oper-
ate in less conventional environments often 
work in alternative birth centers, like those in 
Danbury and Waterbury, which promise a 
less intimidating attnosphere than a hospital's. 
A select few also participate in home-births. 
But midwives are limited by their status as 
nurses, not doctors. They are not qualified to 
perform procedures necessitated by compli-
cated pregnancies, such as Caesarian sections. 
Thus, 
centers and midwives who 
perform home-births limit their work to low-
risk pregnancies, while their counterparts, 
working in hospitals, always have a physician 
in the building who they can turn to if a more 
complex procedure becomes necessary. 
s midwifery has become more 
popular in the United States, the 
number of midwives has natural-
ly blossomed. But, in the past few years, 
growth has halted. ''There's a crisis now;' Teri 
Stone-Godena said. ''Midwifery, not unlike 
nursing as a whole, has become less attractive 
to people who want to have a life, who do 
want to make a good income, and don't nec-
essarily want to be under the threat of a law-
suit for twenty or thirty years after taking care 
of someone." 
Midwifery has been unable to escape 
the malpractice maelstrom that has afflicted 
medicine as a whole over the past decade. 
Because they participate in childbirths, mid-
wives and obstetricians are at risk. for being 
sued years after the actual €oXent. If a heart 
bypass is botched, the effects are immedi-
ately evident. But damage inflicte& by a 
poorly handled childbirth may not manifest 
itself for years. 
''There may be a birth that seems to have 
gone okay, but when the child gets to first 
grade, he or she is not doing very well;' 
Stone-Godena said. "The parents say 'Well, 
you remember it took a little bit longer for 
him to come out than we thought,' or 'You 
knew there was all this excitement in the 
room' and they go back and try to pin down 
the issue that's happening with th~r child." 
''I don't want to make it sound like I think 
that's a commonplace scenario;' she added. 
''I think there's a fear that that's a common-
place scenario." 
In actuality, midwives get sued far less fre-
quently than their physician colleagues, 
because they tend to care for lower-risk 
women, and because of the bond they share 
with their patients. Those midwives who do 
get sued for malpractice are generally those 
who operate closely with physicians and, in 
the event of a suit, get sued along with the 
physician, the hospital, and every other entity 
involved in the birth. 
In spite of this, it is a logistical night-
mare for midwives who are not affiliated 
with a physician or hospit:al to obtain mal-
practice insurance. Debbie Cibelli became 
aware · of this when, after Dr. Holley's 
retirement, she and Jjnda Iisk started



**The Fight for Midwifery Insurance**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
their own practice and attempted to 
become insured in their own right, without being directly linked to a physician. 
"One of the most challenging aspects of 
starting this practice a year ago was educating 
insurance companies," she said. Few insurance 
companies had ever insured a midwife 
who wasn't employed by a hospital or physician, and though clients had been seeing 
Cibelli and Lisk for twenty years in Dr. 
Holley's office, some companies were hesitant to insure in their new practice. Others 
flat out refused. 

Rather than give up, Cibelli took on the 
role of advocate, both for her own practice 
and for midwifery as a whole. "I had to take 
each insurance company on individually and 
educate them that indeed I did not have to be 
a physician employee to see patients in the 
state of Connecticut," she said. Sometimes a 
conversation wasn't enough. In those cases, 
Cibelli quietly opened a book of legal 
statutes, photocopied relevant pages revealing 
that she was operating within the confines of 
Connecticut State law, and mailed them in 
nearly addressed envelopes to the insurance 
companies. Her perseverance paid off: and 
she and Lisk are now healthcare providers 
under almost every insurance company their 
patients use. Except one: Aetna. 

Lisk and Cibelli have inarguably won 
a victory for midwives by establishing a 
precedent for midwives seeking insurance 
coverage. But the specter of Aetna, 
the one hold-out insurance company 
remains. In her initial struggle to win 
recognition from insurance companies, 
Cibelli did not vehemently pursue Aetna, 
regarding it as somewhat marginal. That 
changed as of January 1; Aetna is now 
the only alternative to the Yale Health 
Plan for Yale employees. Aetna's refusal 
to insure midwives had previously 
inflicted a financial burden on Cibelli 
and Lisk's patients; since the two have 
been operating their practice, their 
patients who are insured by Aetna have 
been forced to pay out of pocket for 
their care. But now it is a question of 
principle: Employees of the Yale School 
of Nursing, where many of New 
Haven's midwives received their training, 
will not be able to rely on their insurance 
to cover visits to Cibelli and Lisk. 

Thanks to Aetna, midwives can no 
longer rely on their insurance to cover 
visits to other midwives. 

February 2006 

Alycia Clune, who currently works at the 
School of Nursing, is one of Cibelli and 
Lisk's patients who has been affected by 
Aetna's refusal to recognize them as valid 
healthcare providers. She has joined many of 
the pair's patients in writing letters to the 
company championing Cibelli and Lisk's 
cause, and plans to continue seeing them, 
paying out of pocket, if Aetna continues to 
refuse to back the two. In the years that they 
have cared for her, they have become far 
more than just medical support 
"I believe, for me, having a midwife in your 
life is a gift you give yourself," she wrote in an 
e-mail. "Linda and Debbie are my practitioners, 
but they are so much more. They take the 
role as mom, sister, counselor, whatever is 
needed at the moment."

According to Cibelli, Aetna has made a 
verbal agreement to enroll midwives as 
providers, but has yet to come through on its 
promise. "They're working on it," she said, 
with a hint of skepticism in her voice. In spite 
of the efforts of Clune and other Aetna-
insured patients, the company seems to be 
oblivious to the bond that these women have 
formed with Lisk and Cibelli. 

**Title: Yale's Digital Library Project**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
tographs. Essentially, Haskins is in the 
process of taking pictures of these pic-
tures of pictures. The digitization of this 
entire library is a quest so vast that an end 
date cannot be projected. ''We're in a bit 
of a protean state," Haskins admits, "I 
may have long retired by the time this has 
come to fruition." 

On this day in January, the staff here 
is silently celebrating. Today they reached 
the fifty thou~and image mark, or 50,117 
to be exact, according to the tracker on 
the online database that stores the scans. 
"Quid Tum," Haskins shrugs, quoting 
Alberti, and the department's motto. 
(franslation: ''What next?") 

Of all the Yale libraries to undertake 
digitization, Visual Resources' 
Slide 
Library has the least choice in the matter. 
This past October, I<odak manufactured 
its last 35mm slide projector. The clicking, 
dusty eyes holding vigil in the back of 
Yale classrooms will l::;>e gradually phased 
out, to be replaced with digital projectors. 

he slide library is just one branch 
of the Yale library system that is 
currently 
transitioning 
from 
hard copy videocassettes, magazines, 
books, specimens, oil paintings, Nobel 
prizes, papyri, death masks 
t.o. a digital, 
on-line database. While traditional on-line 
library searches yield only book titles and 
journal dates, over the past ten years 
librarians have sought to digitize complete 
holdings, so that what is on-line is a simu-
lacrum of the entire collection in digital 
images. For example although a scanned 
Edith Wharton manuscript certainly does 
not retain the tactile value of the original, 
the digital form of the manuscript would 
still be very valuable to a scholar in New 
Mexico who is unable to travel to 
Beinecke Library. The slide library is cre-
ating a· digital copy of itself in cyber-
space 
a second library that isn't com-
prised of varnished beechwood drawers, 
but of ones and zeros. 

Digitization is a gradual, painstaking 
process currently unfolding in the back-
rooms and basements of each of Yale's dis-
parate libraries. There is no central digiti-
zation headquarters, as it would be a 
nightmare to move and track all these 
objects. Instead, each library sc~ns or 
photographs its own collection and 
uploads it on-line into a separate search 
engine. Yale's digital library site lists 
twenty different searchable databases-
from the Law School's "Curiae Project," 
which provides Supreme Court briefs in 
fuJl text, to Beinecke's, Yale's largest dig-
ital collection boasting over one-hun-
dred thousand images. Although sepa-
rate teams toil in separate libraries, the 
library system plans to coordinate these 
databases so that in the not-too-distant 
future, a grand database that might inte-
grate Haskins' ambitious slide digitiza-
tion project into Yale's . larger collec-
tions. The final product would be a 
search engine like Google, and a grand 
object in itself that would stand as a 
monument to the breadth of knowledge 
available at Yale. 

This is the next step in a digitization 
project that is just over a decade old. In 
1994, Yale's Project Open Book was 
lauded for its ambitious aim to convert 
ten-thousand texts into digital formats. 

Today, the Beinecke library holds one-
hundred thousand digital images-
including of 12,000 papyri scrolls and 
660 exlorers' maps. The Manuscripts & 
Archives collection, in comparison, 
works on a smaller budget to expand its 
current stock of ten thousand images. It 
has taken Haskins and her team eight 
years to scan the fifty-thousand slides, 
and with 270,000 to go, she often feels 
like an ever-idealistic Sisyphus as she 
clicks through the slides in a drawer. 
"We acquire more images per year than 
we currently digitize," she said. 

o translate a slide from a tiny 
plastic window into the lan-
guage of pixels, Haskins sends 
orders downstairs where, amid the old 
stone of Street Hall's 1870s basernent, a 
bank of Eames chairs float around a cof-
fee table stacked with issues of Wired 
magazine. This is Yale's Media Services 
division, 
which hired Photographic 
Services Manager Joseph Szaszfai as a 
photographic assistant in 1964 to shoot 
Museum exhibitions for print catalogues 
and posters. Szaszfai has spent the past 
thirty years shooting the slides that com-
prise the Slide Library's upstairs collec-
tion, and his new role almost seems like a 
renunciation of his old work. This past 
academic year, his team at Media Services 
was responsible for creating "J9 ,000 digital 
images for use by faculty in class or p~_bli­
cation, many of which were digital copies 
of slides he shot himself. 

"This team has basically gone from sil-
ver to pixels," says Media Services 
Director Peggy McReady with visible 
enthusiasm. ''We still produce images, but 
five percent are requested on traditional 
film base, and 95 percent are requested as 
digital. That's the opposite of what it was 
four or five years ago." 


'~For some reason," Szaszfai agrees, 
"It's all happening this year." This sum-
mer, Media Services sent out a pamphlet 
to Yale Faculty encouraging more senti-
mental professors to "go digital," to 
request digital im~es for class and lap-
tops to play them on. ''There are folks 
that have been here for years and years 
and years, but they may have to change," 
Szaszfai said. 'These projectors are going 
to break, and there won't be another way 
to do things." 

With changing technology, the layout 
of Media Services is also changing. The 
computer lab Szaszfai careens through 
was once a screening room for 16mm 
projectors. A darkroom down the hall is 
shuttered and empty. ''Just today a guy 
came by and turned off the water." By 
July 1, 2006, the division, which for the 
past forty years has printed photographs 
chemically, will be run entirely through a 
networked system of computers and 
printers. The basement's pride and joy is 
Kodak scanner that can scan an entire 
carousel 
at a rate of 85 slides per hour. 

On a Wednesday in January the entire 
basement is empty but for two technicians 
hud<;iled in a windowless nook the size of 
a bathroorp., gathered around a large com-
puter scrtren~--They watch as the machine 
whizzes thr-ough a carousel of .images of 
Italian architec~e. 

Once ~~e' sfu:l~~ ~are digitized, they'll 
first be handed, <iV~ to the professor, 
either via e-QiftY:-· ot on ' a data disc. 
Secondly, they'll be sent upstairs to 
Haskins. Her team will upload the images 
into one of several databases and will 
enter alongside what librarians call. "meta-
data," a string of information about the 
image 
such as its artist and ditnen-
sions 
that allows the image to be search-
able in a larger database. 

But few undergrads, unless stron-
garmed by an art history course, know 
that the resource even exists. "Currently, 
to find what they're looking for, students 
are forced to wend their way by human 
beings," says Katie Bauer, a former New 
Haven math teacher who was hired by 
SML under the daunting title 
of 
"Integrated Interface Systems Librarian." 
Her job was to procure and coordinate 
electronic databases like LexisN e:xis from 
vendors. Today, Bauer, along with Jennifer 
Weintraub, a classically-trained librarian 
who fondly recalls learning Netscape 1.0 
in Library School, is working on a project 
called "D PIP." 

"I was trying this whole time we were 
siu iog here to think of what it stood for," 
Bauer 
admits. 
"Digital 
Production 
Integration Program?" The program aims 
to integrate the images that Haskins' team 
uploads with all of Yale's digital collec-
tions. Currently, digital holdings in the
February 2006 
Beinecke division of Sterling Memorial 
must be searched through a separate data-
base from Manuscripts & Archives' hold-
ings. Though Yale's libraries will always be 
a "decentralized system, no matter what," 
Bauer says, "clearly we need to build 
something to coordinate groups." 

As far as librarians go, Bauer and 
Weintraub are particularly progressive. 
"Librarians are critical that students will 
only use what's available digitally," Bauer 
says, "They say it's a bad thing that 
Google is so easy, and that people are get-
ring spoiled." Most librarians would agree 
that students should "wend their way" 
through the system that's been in place for 
years 
mastering card catalogues, toying 
with Orbis. ''But when a student asks 
'Why don't we just have something like 
Google, that searches all the information 
systems, or something like Amazon that 
recommends other books or sources,' it's 
hard to give an explanation. The answer is, 
we should be using these techniques. We 
have a lot to learn from what students 
already know." _DPIP hopes to integrate 
all digital holdings into one search engine. 
''You'll type 'GertrUde Stein"' Weintraub 
explains, "and you'll get images and text 
from all libraries." 

ibrarians are also wary of how 
simplifying the process may 
affect scholarship. 'There's a 
fear that if some images are on-line, those 
will be the only images students u e," 
Weintraub explains. ''They'll never go 
looking further." Currently, Yale doesn't 
have the capability to digitize every library 
holding, so libraries must prioritize what 
gets translated into a new format, instead 
of pursuing a wholesale conversion. They 
first digitize items· requested by scholars, 
then scan items that receive the most use 
(freeing up librarians who would other-
wise spend time pulling those items); their 
next order of business is to scan items 
that are monetarily valuable apd thus 
more likely to be stolen 
like. the jewel-
encrusted fraternity pins currently being 
digitized at M&A. Finally, they scan items 
that are so perishable, digiti.zation serves 
as a mode of preservation. 

Because of the extent to which digiti-
zation depends on demand, librarians 
worry that it will negatively affect scholar-
ship by creating what Weintraub describes 
as "a self-perpetuating cycle": The images 
that get more use will become the easiest 
to access and thus will get even more use~ 
Just as an art historian fears for the 
integrity of copied images, so too librari-
ans fear that a digital database will provide 
a false picture. "The worry is that this will 
become a 'greatest hits' collection," says 
Richard 
Szary, 
the 
Director 
Manuscripts & Archives, who last year 
was recognized by the Society of 
American Archivists as one of the "quiet 
giants of the profession." 

''What's on-line is just such a small por-
tion of the actual collection, and is com-
pletely unrepresentative," he says modest-
ly from a low-ceilinged back office of the 
gothic Manuscripts & Archives depart-
ment of Sterling Memorial Library. "What 
we need to deal with is wholescale digiti-
zation, which· requires a wholesale opera-
tion we're not equipped to handle. But 
currently, this is a skewed picture of a col-
lection." A search for Eero Saarinen, the 
architect of Morse and Ezra Stiles 
College, brings up 179 hits. "It's just total-
ly skewed," he stresses, ''We probably 
have ten thousand." 

' 
"Our collection is enormous," says 
Matt Shirley, the Digital Imaging Project 
Manager for Beinecke, "but when you 
think of someone's archives in a box as 
hundreds of separate images, this is a very 
small portion of our collection." Shirley's 
team photographs abou.t fifty items per 
day, though he explains that "3D is much 
slower. Busts, swords, medallions, death 
masks, and Nobel prize medals take a lot 
of time." Translating the image of a three-
dimensional object onto a two-dimen-
sional on-line database is its own chal-
lenge, and is the most obvious example of 
what is lost when students and scholars 
neglect the original object for the facility 
of a digital image. 

Still, librarians are already noticing 
that resources are getting used by a 
broader audience. When Rebekah Irwin, 
the catalog librarian for the Digital 
Projects division, entered data to 
describe "Unknown Man from Alaska," 
an 1890s photograph of an Inuit, she 
couldn't upload very much "metadata" 
because she didn't know very much 
about the image. Months later, she 
received an email from a Juneau, Alaska 
man who could barely restrain his glee at 
finding an image of his relative online: 
(The image is of Rudolph and Dai.ry Walton 
and famify, ca. 1890 ... This is the on!J known 
photograph of the. Walton fomi!J and its discov-
ery was met with much excitement among the 
Walton fami!J in Sitka, who had never seen a 
photo of their grandmother, aunt and uncles (all 
of whom died young). " 

This is one of the scholarly outcomes 
that exemplify why Irwin and her collabo-
rators at the Beinecke laud the new digital 
database. "Correspondences like these are 
very rewarding," Irwin wrote in an e-mail. 
"In this case, the digital reproduction of a 
rare photograph transcended the four 
walls at the library and as a result, we now . 
have a deeper understanding... based on 
the shared insight of a far-;flung user of 
our collection. Researchers often,.help 
interpret items in our collection:" she 
added, "that is not new. What is neW, how-
ever, is the eliminiation of the space and 
time constraints of traditional libraries." 

By widening access to these materials 
without causing damage to the originals, 
the Beinecke digitization team is fulfllling 
a two-fold goal of deepening scholarship 
about the materials within the collections 
while simultaneously broadening the 
viewing audience for that collection. 

nlike Haskins, who is chiefly con-
cerned with digitizing an analog 
resource 
convertiflg slides.-
Szary is building a digital collection from 
analog and other media with digital origi-
nals. ''What do you do," he asks, "when a 
writer's correspondences that they donate 
to the library aren't on a piece of paper 
anymore, but they donate a collection of e-
mails? How do you preserve,She order they 
were sent in? Where do you put the e-mails, 
how do you ensure that they aren't tam-
pered with, how many copies do you make 
and do you save them on a CD or on a 
server? Nothing lasts forever," he says, 
"But it's hard to know what will last at least 
a long time. We don't want any 8-tracks or 
Word 4.0 flles, because nothing we have 
can access them." 

Just last week in Manuscripts & Archives, 




**A Robot's Work is Never Done**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' a miniature robot named S (System for Automated Migration of Media Archives) finished the tough 18-month job of re-recording 2,000 hours of testimonials from Holocaust victims that had been in the library's collection. Each night, a technician would load the robot with hours of blank footage, and each morning he would wake to remove hundreds of hours of exposed tape from S 's hungry belly. 'When we applied for the grant, digitization was not even an option;' said project director Joanne Rudof at a recent conference, "because there was no acceptable digital format for video." Now, the library has hundreds of copies of small DV tapes a format that is ostensibly outdated. "In . the case of converted materials," Szary says, "I look at it as a manager protecting an invest:tnent. We put a lot of money into i!? and if this gets lost, that's a lot of wofk and a lot of hours that are lost, let alone in-a preservation case the loss of . ~ r the document itsylf.'_' .- Such failures ' have occurred since the . . .. ., _: J I· / rl"' -... ~ ,, ProJect Open Book, whose· 1992 proposal outlined a "vision of the research library of the future as an institution whose mission is to generate, preserve and improve for its clients' ready access both intellectual and physical to recorded knowledge. The place of electronic tools in the library of the future will depend on how well they measure up against this mission." Unfortunately, these books were recorded ' on a system that has since become obsolete. "No one can look at anything they did," laments librarian Katie Bauer, "Cornell's similar program had the same problem. They recorded everything on these giant silver laser disks, which of course nothing can read." The prevailing plan for keeping pace with constant improvements in media technology is to save digital objects to a server, and then back this server up periodically, on different forms of media. Any changes made in the conversion from one medium to another will be tracked using programs developed by the library.


n a skinny black turtleneck, Katherine Haskins stalks the hedgerows of slide cabinets with grim purpose, wrenches open a drawer and, between two careful fingers, pulls up a plate of glass as if gently lifting a strand of pearls. Flicking the sideswitch of an illuminated viewer with the other hand, she sets the glass pane upon the lighted square, revealing the ruins of a 19th century Italian palace in fragile miniature. The crisp, black-and-white pane is a magic lantern slide, the precursor to the celluloid 35mm Kodak slide • • receive an e-mat rom a uneauJ a man m o restrain ee at • • an re ative on ine. that cycles through today's art history classrooms. "These were outrnoded in the 19 50s or 1960s," Haskins explains, pointing toward the image with a pinky. "But color wasn't always spot on with the 35mm slides, so in most cases they stuck with lantern slides for a few years. In some ways," she reflects, "this is how we think of digital media." Digital media teeters in the same purgatory, straddling a brink of technological progress where most scholars are unwilling to part with the old system, but would be hesitant to argue against the efficiency of a digital database, where slides can be rifled through by keywords instead of drawer knobs. Librarians describe the website as a kind of "electronic wailing wall," referring to the database's analog format: a long, studded white wall, showcasing the images students must memorize for exams that stretches the length of Street Hall's second floor. Today, like the deserted slide library, the wall is frequented more by ghosts than by grade-hounds, but it is maintained out of a sort of sentimental interest in the preservation of an older world of scholarship. When the Cross Campus Library below Sterling is renovated this May, the enormous card catalogues in the first floor will be moved. Rarely used, they will be preserved as art objects, saved out of interest in their status as artifacts. Removed from the burdens of function, they can be appreciated more wholly for their form, for the human effort it took to create them. Art history is a history of the artifact, and any slide or image memorized in a class serves; Haskins explains, as a "simulacrum with a sense of the value of the original, the 'ding an sich,' or 'the thing itself.' There are so many ways to understand the physicality of these objects." Analog formats like the lantern slide are kept less for art history scholars interested in the artifact, but for scholars interested in the history of art history what Haskins describes as the "historiography of art history at Yale," as she returns the lantern slide to its drawer with a sentimental smile. Though the lantern slide serves as a simulacrum of its image, it is also its own historical object, its own 'ding an sich' worthy of study. The artifact presently being created by Yale's hardworking librarians is a digital database, and in one sense is just another simulacrum a sprawling two-dimensional image of the sprawling library itself. Sentimental professors might be squirming in their tweed, but Haskins couldn't care less. "Someone once explained it to me as 'You go where the stuff is,"' she says, adding with a smirk a quote from a book she recently read by W. J. T. Mitchell, who saw digitization as an eternal battle: "The shock of new media is as old as the hills." ''New media" is the chief interest of art history, and society's gradual progress is evident in every object we create and in every slide stocking these thousands of drawers, awaiting quite new processes that will fight to preserve them for the next generation. Adriane Quinlan, a junior in Calhoun College, is a Managing Editor of YNJ.


**Comfort Food, Comfort Cultures**
**Author: Ina Jimes**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Comfort food, the bites of Americana typically associated with home, wield tremendous nostalgic power; the desire to return to the figurative womb of one's childhood kitchen is so potent, there are programs on the Food Network extolling the virtue of grits and chic New York eateries soliciting twenty-dollar meatloaf. 

But here in New Haven, a small but diverse community, mashed potatoes, macaroni and cheese, apple pie, and burgers fail to represent the diversity of the population. While a native New Englander salivates at the memory of Mom's clam chowder, a Korean immigrant reminisces about the kimchi (a spicy cabbage dish) that his omma fermented from scratch. Over the last two decades, the flowering of a densely packed multicultural restaurant community in the Elm City has come to reflect this plurality. 

For a chef or restaurateur hailing from a distant locale, reproducing familiar food in a foreign environment is not unlike the process of assimilation itself: Ethnicities intermingle, the new world meets the old, and a certain je ne sais quoi is inevitably lost and gained in translation. 

To create this sort of comfort food, cooks must replicate their native cuisine from a vast spatial~ and often temporal, distance a far cry from a bowl of Easy Mac. 

Unique, indigenous ingredients can be difficult to import, and satisfying the tastes of a foreign audience is a complex art. Moreover, in the contemporary gastronomic climate where fusion has made easy bedfellows of ingredients like goat cheese and wasabi, the literalization of the "melting pot" poses a new challenge to maintaining one's culinary identity. 

These days, can a French restaurant really be French· if it employs influences from Southeast Asia? 

In the face of these questions, a group of New Haven restaurants has taken different approaches towards the process of recreation. A renowned Spanish chef, trained by the greatest cooks in the world, focuses on self-expression and creativity. An Eritrean refugee and businessman seeks to spread the gospel of sharing. Two Taiwanese brothers hope to expose their · new homeland to authentic Chinese cooking. Ultimately, all three aspire to redefine the notion of "comfort food" and of American cuisine. 

The Innovator
Luis Bollo, the gastronomic mastermind behind Ibiza, one of the most esteemed Spanish restaurants in the world (it was hailed by The New York Times as the best of its kind in the US), refuses to serve paella. The traditional rice dish, perhaps the most widely known item on the Spanish menu, is notably absent on Ibiza's carte du jour and its omission is no accident. "It's true," he says, folding his arms as if preparing to defend his culinary ideology. His thick Spanish accent softens the "z" in the restaurant's name to a "thh" sound. "We're doing something different here our food represents a new Spain." 

Ballo's desire to reconceptualize the native Spanish diet is the product of a transnational existence. Born in San Sebastian, in Spain's northern Basque territory, he attended culinary school there as a teenager before moving to Mexico City. In 1992, Bolio immigrated to America, then returned to Europe to fine-tune his art. Later, in a partnership with Ignacio Blanco, he converted Pike Tapas, a modest restaurant nestled between a barbershop and a fraternity on High Street, into Ibiza. 

The staples of a Spanish diet.-ham; cheese, fine wines, olive oil can all be found in the restaurant's kitchen. Bolio, readily analyzing his country's gastronomy, points to the significance of its lengthy border on the Mediterranean Sea. "Because of their shared coastline," he notes, "Spanish food is not ·that different from, . say, the provincial food of France. Like Italians, we use tomatoes but in a different way." 

This difference is magnified at Ibiza, where a glance at the restaurant's menu may simultaneously elicit awed delight from the epicurean and trepidation from the inexperienced diner. Ballo ·and · his staff infuse regional delicacies, like squid cooked in its own ink and roasted suckling pig (a Castilian dish), with accoutrements and flavors extracted from a wealth of intercontinental sources. The result is Iberian cuisine infused with a whiff of outside influence. 

The greatest of Ibiza's challenges lies not in its adhering to tradition or achieving innovation, but in satisfying cross-Atlantic audiences. According to Bolio, the development of one of the restaurant's most renowned offerings exemplifies this problem. "I knew that I wanted to serve baccalao, which is a white fish that is dehydrated with salt to produce a unique flavor and dry texture. I believed that Americans could enjoy the flavor, but not the texture, so I experimented with the dish in Spam, salting my own fish overnight. I wanted to create something that works for everyone, to compromise." 

Despite such concessions, Bolio maintains that he always intends for his food to express his own experience and background. "My wife says that her country can be found in her language and the food of her people. My personal history is with Spain, and I do not want to lose touch with those roots." 

"I borrow aspects from every part of Spain," states Bolio. "Towns in Andalusia, Galicia ... but I also look to other countries for inspiration. I've taken walks on the streets of my home country with a French chef .. ·. I've expanded my knowledge of food through my travels. For example, ceviche is on our menu, and I learned what it was when I was in Mexico City. 

Bolla's expression of his Spanish heritage is innovative, both in his willingness to incorporate multicultural influences and in the execution of his dishes. For example, a steamed octopus appetizer is accompanied by a "potato foamy emulsion." The textural conversion of starch into foam an impressive effect achieved rather ingloriously by filling a whipped cream cartridge with a liquefied material is a method that Bolio attributes to Fernan Adria, a world-renowned Barcelonan chef famous for his new wave practices. 

Bolio insists, however, on avoiding novelty for novelty's sake. "I like to play with new techniques," he affirms, "but only if they enhance the dish." 

The Entrepeneur
If Luis Bolio is the T.S. Eliot of the New Haven dining scene,. then Gideon Ghebreyesus, the co-owner of Caffe Adulis, is its Shel Silverstein. 

Ghebreyesus is a warm, broad-shouldered man with a genial grin and an eloquent manner. At age 18, he fled his native Eritrea when the East African nation fought a brutal war of separation with Ethiopia. His affability belies an astute business sense sharpened by years in the restaurant world. 

"After immigrating to the States," he recalls, "I studied at Southern Connecticut State, then quickly began working in restaurants." These restaurants all of which served Western cuisine included 368 Steak House on Audubon, Gentree's on York Street, Bruxelles, and Scoozi on Chapel. The demise of three out of four of these establishments (only Scooz1 still exists) reflects the precariousness of the industry; it also sheds light on the rarity of a success like Adulis, which continues to thrive over a decade into its existence. 

"As I was moving up from kitchen manager to floor manager and so on, it became clear that New Haven needed something different. My brother [Ficre Ghebreyesus, Adulis's head chef] and I came up with the idea of opening up an Eritrean restaurant, which, of course, was a natural thing to do. I think it filled a gap, because the food is interesting and not something that many can reproduce in their




**Title: Caffe Adulis**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The white table-cloth setting of Ibiza welcomes gourmands.
kitchens at home." . 
Even in a well-equipped commercial kitchen, Eritrean food can be difficult to reproduce because it utilizes a unique set of ingredients. In addition to the basics spinach, green beans, squash, lentils Caffe Adulis must import many of its staples directly from Eritrea. 
"There are many ·components, like berbere and cayenne, that simply cannot be acquired here," Gheybreyesus says, dangling a pouch of a blood-red powder wrapped in tin foil. 
«This is berbere ... When you cook with it, you need to let it simmer first." 
The true staple of an Eritrean diet, ''We serve our food communally, on a big platter of injera. ·That is how I ate growing up, and I think that eating and sharing this type of food is a wonderful experience. · Communal eating is a big part of Eritrean culture my brother learned to cook at family gatherings." 
The familial nature of Adulis' environment is present in the Ghebreyesus brothers' willingness to embrace as sources the cuisines of neighboring countries, as well as American influences. 
''We were once a colony of Italy, so there are influences from there in our food. . . we blend culinary styles and offerings from different African countries, like plantains," says Ghebreyesus. "We also serve Middle Eastern food the region is close to Eritrea. I grew up eating fava beans, and we serve shah (ani Ful, which is an appetizer made of them." 
According to Ghebreysus, this amalgam of influences is what it takes to manage a successful restaurant in an environment where the cuisine is often totally foreign to diners. "For example, we came up with an "Injerrito," he says, pointing to the menu description: a "~burrito" made of injera, lentils, sour cream, and vegetables. «What it really comes down to is a cross-utilization of culture~" he adds. "Food has no boundaries." 


**Title: The Traditionalist**

For most Americans, Eritrean and Spanish cuisines are like strangers or distant relatives; but Chinese food is an old, reliable friend. In a country however, is injera, a spongy pancake-like bread made of a special type of flour that has been fermented in water and fried. Ghebreyesus proudly notes that Adulis makes its own injera every day; the flat bread is used as an accompaniment to a variety of stews, vegetables, and meat entrees. Forgoing the need for silverware, the food can be sopped and scooped with the bread itself, which is ripped apart throughout the meal. 
The process is decidedly unpretentious and, set in a white tablecloth atmosphere, elicits a sense of childish mischief and fun. 
Traditional woven Eritrean baskets hang on exposed brick walls at Caffe Adulis.


**Title: Royal Palace**
**Page number(s): 41**

The Chins' 87 year-old mother makes dumplings from scratch. 
Tony picks up a copy of the Royal Palace menu, and several inserts fall out. These additional menus, he explains, list the traditional dishes the restaurant serves regional dishes ranging from the spicy Hunan and Szchezuan cuisine to the lighter Cantonese style. 
"We used to give out a single, hand-written version to Chinese families, but then other people wanted to see it, too!" 
He pauses to direct a group of giggling young waitresses clad in traditional scarlet garb, then continues. 
"No two dishes are sauced alike. And we serve authentic options that you wouldn't expect, like honey and walnut shrimp. 
But, with traditional food, our meat is leaner, our vegetables are of greater variety, and our dumplings are lighter." 
With dumplings on his mind, he proceeds to the back room, where his 87 year-old mother is seated in a bulky fur vest, making them from scratch at a table laden with heaps of flour, bowls of ground pork and vegetables, and stacks of paper-thin skins. In her creased, speckled hands, the task appears effortless; she rolls the various components between her fingers in milliseconds, then pinches the results into doughy conch shells. 
As Tony animatedly bounds around the restaurant, pointing to different aspects of the decor the space is airy and bathed in a warm wash of light one of the waitresses prepares a traditional oolong tea ceremony for two. She lays the authentic stoneware on the table, carefully steeps the leaves in a tiny pot, and then empties it into a pair of shot-glass sized cups. 
The quiet, beautiful process encapsulates the essence of Royal Palace. Unlike the culinary architects behind Ibiza and Caffe Adulis, the Chins are wholly devoted to an unadulterated presentation of their heritage; as Tony avows, "We serve and cook what we know, and it's traditional." 
Still, he admits that his adherence to authenticity isn't unbendable. "One of our best dishes, the spicy chicken, is actually called "saliva chicken" in Taiwan." He laughs, then adds, "We probably can't call it that here." 
Mina Kime, a junior in Davenport College, is Production Manager of TNJ.


**Title: Success?**
**Page number(s): 42**

Ken was a handsome executive-type. He drove a red Corvette and took care of Barbie, who arranged playdates for Skipper and Stacey, adored her baby, Polly Pocket, and fussed with her jumpers and updos at least three times daily. As a little girl, I modeled my dolls' family after my real one. 
My dad is a handsome executive-type, and my mother's a gem like Barbie, who is fun, helpful, and employed exclusively as a mother; You might call her a "homemaker," but I prefer "home engineer." 
Few of my friends' mothers worked, and those who did were only gone during school hours. My world did not demand traditional gender roles, but they were the norm. When I played house, I identified with Mommy and Barbie. It was what I knew best. 
It's been years since I've played with Barbie, but I have rarely paused to reexamine the gender conventions I established as a little girl. Then, last September, The New York Times published Louise Story's now notorious article, "Many Women at Elite Colleges Set Career Path to Motherhood." Story, a journalist and student at the Yale School of Management, conducted surveys via e-mail to compile a controversial statistic stating that 85 out of a random sample of 138 females at Yale, or 62%, responded that "when they had children, they planned to cut back on work or stop working entirely." The result was billed as a glimpse into the future of smart young women: At a certain point, a majority will probably want to be mothers, not moguls. The ensuing media frenzy on campus and off saw the article as a setback for women. But for the questions it raised about whether a Yale education entails a professional imperative that stay-at-home-moms fail to meet, I thought it was a lead. 
For me, this article touched on a particular anxiety that may be personal to my generation an anxiety prompted by cultural issues that spanned our childhoods in the 1990s. Between Diane Keaton's fitful exit from corporate America in Baby Boom (1987), the frequent news hour segments that profiled the quickening tick-tock of a woman's biological clock, and interviews of so and so, a female Fortune 500 powerhouse who still felt unfulfilled, from a young age we were exposed to worrisome press about women in the workforce. 
It stirred my fears about the correlation between the privilege and investment of a Yale-education and an obligation to society that motherhood alone fell short of. 
What I was searching for was a Yale-approved paradigm: a model of the modern woman I may want to be. 
Yet the University's generally laudable blindness to its students' sexual orientation and gender leaves it largely unable to address issues like maternity relevant to only a subset of the population. As Yale has constructed valuable genderless stereotypes for me-scholar, leader, citizen I have to wonder how neatly a woman who wants to have children can fit into Kingman Brewster's vision of a Yale class as a "thousand leaders of their generation." I have a feeling a mother can be what Brewster would agree is a leader. I just wish the option was a more visible. 
At Yale, discussions about Story's article were primarily theoretical and frustrating. The points related to junctures the students had not yet confronted, choices we had not yet been faced with. 
Around the nation, dialogues amongst all generations of alumnae



**Title: The Yale Woman**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. 
reproduced the sentiments on 
campus, tempering surprise with 
reflection. But alumnae discussed 
these issues based on decisions 
they already made. 


Instead of 
turning to current students to 
gauge the cultural meaning of 
motherhood in an Ivy Lea·gue set-
ting as Story had, I turned to 
women among Yale;s alumni who 
had already made the choices that 
female 
students 
inter-
viewed 
in 
the 
article 
could only imagine. 


t took me a while to 
realize 
that 
e 
to picture myself transcending the 
limitations of her mold. 


In a November 2001 article· for 
Yale 
Alumni 
Magazine, 
Cara 
Worthington Fe kula Hyson '77 
questioned whether a liberal arts 
curriculum should be responsible 
for giving" women a crash-course in 
life: "Who was going to prepare 
them for what was ahead? Did they 
know it wasn't a clear shot to the 
zrs 
Larned Professor of History, has 
interacted with generati ns of Yale 
women sirice 1967. She told me Yale 
did have· a gendered stereotype. He 
just didn't have ovaries. 


"Once upon a time," . Russett 
recalled, "certainly the Yale Man 
connoted someone who had much 
more of a fashion sense, wh.o was 
·elegant rather than scholarly look-
ing, a fellow who might wear a 
camel-hair 
coat, 
who 
a 
a secon 
story I was pursu-
J 
-
• 
Jj. 
looked as if he might 
enjoy sports, and certain-
ly not the kind of person 
to sit in a library." Even 
if it is a stereotype, and a 
phony one at that, she 
thinks the Yale Man is an 
identifiable persona with 
particular mystique . 


Russett's image of the 
Yale man can be updated 
to 
loosely 
apply 
my male peers, who I 
do · not 
think 
would 
object too gravely to its 
not planned the ne~! thir- · 
ty years in ..,the··-way the 
r 
s .• 
~{Jigges-~_ed- _· some 
.,. ,...., 
v 
Yale studet}.t_ j~.a~e-m~st 
of us proo~bly haven't-· -
but we have all envisaged 
glimmers of our future, if 
only 
Barbie-doll 
dreams of white-decked wedding 
days. It is easy, however, to imag-
ine ourselves in the contexts we're 
accustomed to, reproducing the 
choices our parents made to get us 
here. 


Unlike me, some girls I 
spoke to said they could not fath-
om not being working moms; their 
moms (and Barbies) had worked 
every day of their lives. 


In the 
article's aftermath, I tried to assess 
how I would have answered Story's 
survey. As vivid, forthcoming, and 
certain as my professional aspira-
tions are, I would have answered in 
the only way I can envision. 


Finding other molds, I 
knew, 
require 
finding 
other 
women to look to as models-
.· women related to me not by blood, 
but by the shared experience of 
four years at Yale. My mom is my 
best friend and biggest role model, 
but I feel trapped by my inability 
oes 
e coo 
top? Did they realize that life is full 
of heartaches? Did they have any 
idea of what would bring the great-
est joys? Did they realize how many 
personal decisions and compromis-
es would influence that career they 
were preparing for? Were they pre-
pared to face the personal .and pro-
fessional challenges?" 


With thirty years between 
us, Hyson and 
I 
ques-
tion whether 
Yale has a responsibil-
ity to create a particular and 
practical model for female 
graduates like myself, for 
whom professionalism is not 
innate. Cynthia Russett, the 
connotations. 


But even Russett, a scholar with a 
learned intuition of the situation of 
women past and present, could not 
conjure a comparable vision of the 
Yale Woman, the paradigm I was still 
searching for. 


When Yale's first women matric-
ulated in 1969, they weren't con-
cerned with the idea of creating a 

--- Page 44 ---

Yale Woman 
they were concerned 
with making a mark at all. "When 
the women first came, they felt they 
had to prove themselves, and if 
they were being admitted, they well 
remembered 
Kingman 
Brewster had talked about graduat-
ing a certain number of leaders per 
year, and so some alumni feared 
that the leadership numbers might 
fall if women were admitted," said 
Russett. "Because they weren't like-
ly to be the leaders, they had this 
sense of much to prove." 


The 
simultaneity of coeducation and 
feminism was an electric combina-
tion at Yale, imbuing some female 
students with a greater sense of 
obligation. "Gloria Steinem came 
here to · speak and l heard that she 
was criticized by some people 
because she was wearing lipstick ... 
you didn't· care about your appear-
ance, you had points to make, and 
things to do." 


I wear .lipstick (and mascara, and 
blush), but I definitely have points 
make 
and 
things 
do. 


Contacting women from past eras at 
Yale he,lped me understand how my 
own experience, reproduced and 
contrasted with the experiences of 
others. 


I began using the Yale 
Alumni dires;tory as my own per-
sonal rolode:X:: 
"Hi Ms. McGinnis, 
I would· like to talk to you about 
your experience at Yale in the ear!J 80s 
and how it impacted the choices you · 
made and the places you are going in 
your life. Perhaps you also have opin-
ions · about these recent NYT af!'lic/es 
as well. 
Essential!J, I am trying to 
trace the evolution (or not) of the Yale 
Woman ... 


Hen Gibson McGinnis was a 
success story that I was 
relieved to 
en~ounter. 
A 
graduate of the class of 1982, she is 
a partner in the law firm Haynes and 
Boone, 
LLP, 
from 
her 
Baltimore home telecommutes to its 
DC office four days a week. 


She 
had her first child at 3 7; then she 
had a second. 
Her husband, a 
physician, is also a Yale graduate. 
He does the cooking . 


"We all think we can control 
everything. We're Yalies right?!" she 
intoned sarcastically. 


"If we think ... students at Yale 
are n1isguided at the very least, 
then I think we owe it to them to 
talk ... We had an [AYA] women's 
conference two years ago where 
there was so much 
three hundred 
Yale alumnae 
energy. 
I think 
your . generation 
is 
teachable. 
College students are teachable. We 

--- Page 45 ---

can serve as a resource." 


Ellen 
makes traditional roles seem less 
obvious by having it all. But more 
importantly, she is the embodi-
ment of what I have been unable 
to imagine after so many years. · It 
was not ignorance, but the inac-
cessibility of a variety of real-
world role models that made me 
so reluctant to imagine a life suc-
cessfully combining motherhood 
and professionalism. 


The alumnae with whom I 
interacted were lively, engaged, 
and enthusiastic about discussing 
an issue that everyone has some-
thing to say about. They talked at 
length about chapters, choices, and 
complications. 


My inbox, and 
) . 
more im.p.ortantly my brain, was 
clogged --with their responses. A 
clear exampl~ ,,o{ -'fhe - Yale Woman 
' ' 
may not~/yet;. : be. ~J.n our popular 
imaginatioh,.1
.j?~t _::!here are plenty 
of Yale alumnae who ·could serve 
as models to establish this para-
digm. 


I'm not ready yet to give up 
playing house in exchange for 
actually having one of my own, 
but when I do, it may be just like I 
always imagined it. What all of the 
alumnae overwhelmingly expressed 
was that there is nothing "unsuc-
cessful" about being a homemaker, 
or as I'd prefer, "home engineer." 


Ultimately, the Yale Woman 
finds fulfillment by forging her 
own path. I'm content with not 
knowing what lies ahead. It would 
ruin the fun. Maybe I'll be like my 
Barbie, or maybe I won't. Either 
way, I plan to utilize my education 
and my experiences to delineate 
my own boundaries, rather than 
subscribing to a plastic ideal. 


Romy Drucker, a Junior in Davenport 
College, is Editor-in-Chief of TN]. 
T:\.1 
February 2006 


**Title: The Decline and Fall of the Roman…Dorm Room?**
**Author: TNJ**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At boarding school, the laws of nature had little bearing on the rules governing cross-gender room visits. For freshmen and sophomores at mine, Andover, these "parietals" were a little like legal consultations on Guantanamo: restricted, and very rare. On approximately two and a half Thursdays a month, the genders could intermingle privately for up to two hours, provided an adult was nearby and the bedroom door had been carefully removed from its hinges. By junior year, students were allowed a functioning door that was merely half-open, a slow descent on our innocence. After half-open came the much-anticipated "shoe-in-the-door" phase, when a boy's visit to his lady friend's room was signified by the presence of a shoe, a slipper, socks, or pair of toenail clippers wedged between the door and its frame. At Exeter, Andover's northern rival, administrators also mandated that three of four feet be on the ground. And as at most schools, authority figures could enter the room at will, to note the location of all but the permissibly whorish fourth foot.


The result, for sexually adventurous adolescents, was a lot of creativity.


"Remember that Yale Herald article where some kid talked about hooking up in a chair in his room and how it was so much fun?" a fellow boarding school alum recently asked. "Well, people in my high school used to hook up in chairs that moved back and forth like that except it was, like, in the school auditorium."


Yale, alas, is a different story. Here, in the freedom of co-ed entryways, adventure in the sexual arena is a matter of taste, not necessity. Trysts unfold as far afield as Sudler Hall and the Trumbull dining hall, but they are the exception. And as for the library, another friend reports derisively: "Sex in the stacks has become a total cliche."


Though Yalies are abundantly hard-working, this seems to be one arena where laziness prevails.  It turns out it's just comfortable.


What's happened to us? To boarding school veterans, the problem is obvious: Faced with the university's failure to provide adequate substitutes for the horizontal polka and its three-footed precursors, we've gotten lazy.


Back in the day, things were different. At my high school, the gold medal went to my friend Promiscucia, who gained wide repute for having sex on the lawn behind the Head of School's lush, Victorian home. Once at Yale, I learned from a fellow Andover-turned-Yalie that my friend had actually lost her crown the following year, when two classmates managed the same feat in the Head of School's kitchen. And already, Promiscucia had shared the spotlight with classmates known for hooking up on the altar of one school chapel, behind the organ in another, on the desk of a particularly reviled history teacher, and in a math professor's car.


Of course, these amorous teenagers rose to stardom thanks to boarding schools' smaller size: Like the students, news got around. Everyone at Lawrenceville knew about the boy who would break into his dormmates' rooms and try on their underwear, just like most kids at Exeter knew about the "Harkness Club," founded by students who liked to put the school's famed seminar tables to after-hours use. "There were a lot of members," one alum now at Yale assures me. "Recruitment was not a problem."


In comparison, Yalies seem like old-timers, forced back into the bedroom by the mundanity of near-adulthood. But then, not all of my boarding school friends are eager to turn back the clock.


"Didn't you have way more crazy sex at Andover than at Yale?" I asked one the other day, waxing nostalgic about the good old days of cramped copulation.


"Actually," he replied, "I didn't really have sex in high school… But thanks for making me feel bad about my life."



Yale University: Contributing to a Strong New Haven
February 2006

