Publication date: April 1979
Volume: twelve
Issue number: three

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Aaron Betsky
- Publisher: Jim Clark
- Designer: Mark Sheehan
- Graphics Editor: Karen Sideman
- Managing Editor: Eva Saks
- Assistant Editor: Jamie Romm
- Business Staff: Ed Bennett, Carolyn Mitchell
- Editorial Staff: Dick Pershan, Julie Peters, Peter Pokalsky, Fred Kelly
- Graphics staff: Peter Pokalsky, Catherine Wehrli, Paul De Vries, Mike Radcliffe, Alexandra Kahn


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
Verbal Pretense in the Nineteen-Seventies - 2
Loved Her Hated Him - 4
Return from Tokyo to Kyoto - 4
From an old Dialogue - 4
desserts is just stressed backwards - 6
Sea biscuit - 8
Who's the Biggest Semi-God and Friend to You and Me - 10
Fashion Forecast of '79 - 11
One Day in the Surreal - 12
September - 13
Celebration - 14
Ask Eva! - 15


**Title: Homage in Season**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

My room was small and after a few
weeks it had become like a ship's
cabin. At night the leaves on the tree
in the yard threw shadows on the
ceiling that moved lazily when there
was little wind and quickly when the
wind was stronger. When it rained the
leaves trembled and I lay in bed and
watched them and listened to them,
and knew I wouldn't sleep. Some
nights after too many Pernods the
room reeled and I would have to turn
on the light or walk around in the
space between the bed and the closet
until I could try to sleep again.


It was the beginning of the Fall and
the shadows on my ceiling were
growing thinner. In the cafes and on
the Boulevards thin overdressed
painters talked to their long-legged
models about war. We knew the war
was coming, but we didn't worry
about it. Gabriele talked most about
the war. She was an Etudiante en
Philosophie but all she liked was
novels and sex, in that order, and she
liked our Ernest Hemingway and
talked about the commencement of
hostilities. I thought that since her
English wasn't good and Hemingway
in French sounds ghastly she should
be, say, Saint-Exupery instead. We
didn't know why Hemingway and
Saint-Ex hadn't been friends and
thought we could make up for it.
Each one had probably thought the
other was a phoney. Hemingway's
idea of a French phoney was
Malraux, and he probably was right. I
don't suppose Malraux ever thought
much about Hemingway, but if he did
he probably called him a phoney.
Anyway after one evening it was clear
that Gabriele as Saint-Ex was a bit
weak, while as Harry Morgan or Ole
Andresen she was inaccurate although
inspired. After that we let her be who
she wanted. It seemed better that way,
since they were all dead.


I had left my room about half-an-
hour before and now I was sitting
inside the Flore, reading the news-
paper. The Flore had once been a fine
cafe but like all the ones on Saint-
Germain it had ceased to be a cafe
long ago in order that it might
become more of a cafe for the sake of
my compatriots, and I no longer
patronized it much. Since it was the
Fall I was thinking that perhaps we
could start planning to go to Schruns
for the winter. Maybe it was later in
the Fall that you started to think
about Schruns, but I wasn't sure.
Then Catherine saw me through the
window as she walked by the cafe and
she came over to my table and sat
down without saying hello.
-
Hello, I said.
Darling, how are you? What are
you drinking?
Pernod.
Will you order me one?
I called the garcon and gave her
order and he nodded and scribbled it
on his pad the way Sartre had said. I
asked Catherine about Schruns.
No, it's too early, she said. And
in Schruns you have to be tired and
happy in the evenings and you can't
do that on schoolwork. And besides, I
don't want to have to lose your
manuscripts.
I agreed.
We can stay here then and
pretend about Schruns.
That will be grand. And we can
go to Gstaad at Christmas and stay at
the Rossli and that will already be
something.


That was true, and I knew Gstaad
was good and I must be thankful I
had it. We finished the pernods and
Catherine wanted another. This time
she called the waiter herself. She
ordered and when he left she said:
"And there might be the war. You
forgot about the war."


If there was the war then we
couldn't go to Gstaad. But there were
many other places we could go to
fight, and it was just a matter of
choice. War had the same sadness and
mud and dead eighteen-year-olds no
matter where you went, y se acabo.
Point final. E basta. ••That 's it," I
thought. Pernod was good for
languages and good for soldiers and
students who were cold and fright-
ened. It was awfully easy to be
Hemingway about everything when
you were sober, but with the pernods
it was another thing.


**Title: BATES!**
**Page number(s): 3**

a "true-to-life" story
The Musee Provencale de Skull-
duggaire in St. Tropez is a vaulted
cathedral-like building nestled be-
tween the Cafe Bof and an eatery
called La Tour Blanc on a side street
some two short blocks from the
beach. Bobby Bright, Yale under-
graduate, regarded the Musee with a
wistful glance and sighed.
"That is a beautiful building," he
said, not quite to himself.
"Cest magnifique! Toujours belle!"
said a miniature tramp at his side.
"Oh, go away!" said Bobby Bright.
.. No money here. Pas d'argent! Go
'way! Shoo!"
The tramp hurried off and Bobby's
thoughts returned to the building
before him. He had looked at it at
least four, maybe five times a day
since he first arrived in St. Tropez.
That was four -
maybe five -
weeks
ago. Time was running on. Some day
he would pay the Musee a visit.
"Visite, .. he thought to himself.
Right now, however, he was headed
for Ia plage. That meant beach,
Bobby knew. His roommate had given
him a crash course in French the
., week before the last semester ended.
Mter all, Bobby was going to France,
and it might help if he knew a word
or two of the local argot.


And it was only fitting that Bobby
should make some kind of token
effort to justify the trip. Just think -
$1200 given him, Scot-free, by the
Bates Fellowships back at Yale. Oh,
he was supposed to study old Pro-
vencal manuscripts dealing with the
wars between Louis the Insane and
Michael the Saracen or somesuch -
but nobody was really going to check
up on him. And anyway, no one
could. Nobody in the entire world
knew a damned thing about Louis the
Insane's dealings with Michael the
Saracen for the very good reason that
Bobby had made Michael the Saracen
up. That would be okay, he knew; the
Bates people. never checked.


Now, at long last, the money was
running out. Yesterday Bobby had
had to dip into his own savings, and
it looked as though he might end by
wiring home for his plane fare. He
slowly counted the bills in the pocket
of his beach costume. One- two-
three- four- five ... enough for
dinner tonight .. . and then what? He
would have to leave Monday. Yes,
that was it. Monday.


Bobby Bright again looked at the
Musee before him. His curiosity grew.
It might be very pretty inside. He
might even ·be able to see a medieval
manuscript or two. Should he . . . ?
Would he ... ?


Cautiously Bobby approached the
front door of the building. He read
the sign on the old oaken door. It was
closed this week, Bobby translated to
himself. It was closed for the coming
month. Bobby shed a tear and heaved
a sigh of relief.


Fingering the bills lightly in his
pocket, Bobby made his way toward
the beach.



**Title: Loved Her Hated Him**
**Author: Sidney Wilson**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Loved Her Hated Him
The Harald Hardrada Quartet. 
Sidney Wilson

I

Notice, gentlemen, the young lady in the far 
corner. Let us call her exhibit A. She is the object 
of my desire. 

Exhibit A's brother, Harald Hardrada, is my 
roommate. You may see him, this very moment -
if that is where you are -
on York Street, striding 
past the Yale Dramat; the red scarf carelessly 
knotted around his neck, one length hanging down 
his stomach, the other flapping over his shoulder 
in this crisp Northerly. We shall call this red scarf 
exhibit B. It symbolizes my passion for its owner's 
sibling. Exhibit C is the above-mentioned 
Northerly. 

Gentlemen, my burden is heavy. I love this lady 
with all the weak knees, the pitted stomachs, all 
the trembling fingers and heaving tenderness in 
Christendom. I alternate -
in hideous suffering -
between the loftiest aspirations and the most 
somber designs; yet it makes no difference, no 
matter how I put it. I cannot reach her. She 
scorns, spurns, rebuffs, and excludes me. 

My roommate, Hardrada, a personable fellow in 
all respects, I loathe. I suspect him of laughing at 
my plight. Of course I have not told him. He 
merely surmises; but rightly. Just yesterday 
evening he accused me of being overly celibate; 
but then, he makes up for it. He keeps the room's 
average up; he fucks anything that moves. He 
discards his jockstrap on the living-room floor, 
and fucks it, and maybe, even, he fucks his sister. 
Oh, gentlemen! 

I will now introduce D. D is our room, a three-
room double in Branford College; soon all 
elements will be assembled there. Hardrada and 
his scarf are fumbling with their gate-key and will 
presently ascend the spiral staircase and enter. My 
Hard Lady of Yale is about to open the window in 
order that the Northerly might dispel the smoke 
from my chain of nervous and strained cigarettes. 

I implore you, gentlemen, and you, bitch, to 
prevent the conjoining of these circumstances. 
Their imminent combination already fills me with 
despair. 


II

I swear it's true, and now I will tell you about 
it. Last year, I went to Norway. Norway, as you 
all know, lies next to Sweden, in the North, up 
and a little to the left or the right of Europe. My 
roommate, Harald Hardrada, comes from 
Norway, but I didn't yet know him when I went 
there. I only met Hardrada last month, and 
though I like Norwegians, Lord I hate Hardrada. 
He has a cute sister and I'd like to crawl all over 
her, but this is taking us away from our subject, 
which is Norway and my trip there last year, a 
true story mind you, even though Thuli Vemsl,l 
Hardrada is not only a ripe one, but also a 
Norwegian. 

Many of you have heard of Norway. It is a 
country, not an island or a continent. Ingmar and 
Ingrid Bergman, and Liv Ullmann, too, are not 
Norwegian but Swedish, like Bjorn Borg; and they 
are all very proud of it. Knut Hamsun might have 
been Norwegian, and Malcolm Lowry displayed a 
marked fondness for a character called Sigbjll!lm 
Wilderness, who was apparently quite as Nor-
wegian as Nordahl Grieg, a famous one. 

Lapps, Finns, Danes, Siberian Huskies, Spitz-
bergen, Greenlanders, Icelandics and Eskimo, 
none of them are from Norway. Jack London, as 
his name indicates, was not, in any way that I can 
tell, or have heard of, connected with the place. 

You should not go there either. It is a thoroughly 
poisonous land. 

the new journal. April 1979


III

Back in Norway Hardrada had a snowmobile all 
his own, color canary, called Ski-doo. He used it 
to run away from moose, who galloped by the 
herd in the opposite direction, crashing toward the 
forest, terrified by the sound of the motor. 

Now exiled from his native tundra, Harald 
Hardrada slumbers in a suite in Branford College. 
Visions assail him. The moose. The Ski-doo now; 
the engine is his alarm-clock. Hardrada splutters, 
coughs, heaves himself across the bed and yanks 
the cord out of the wall. He swears, in English: 
Ah Shitfuck, he says, and groans: the clockface 
reads 2 A.M. Brother, forget it, he thinks. He pulls 
his clothes off, slides into a warm hollow beneath 
the covers. Soon the moose embrace him. 

In the morning, Hardrada will report to student 
medicine, there to procure proof of illness for the 
peace of mind of Teacher's Asst. Peteter Boylens, 
a blond-haired red-head grad student with piercing 
eagle's eyes behind inch-thick convex lenses, whose 
sphere of influence stretches halfway round 
Linsley-Chit 101 twice a week, two fifty-minute 
intervals of existence spicing the eternity of self-
nihilation that he is within the P.-lii Sz. Dpt. 
"Peteter," HH will then say, "I hev got iip lass 
ntit 2EM to writ groinsweat pepper, but mental 
blCk. I em hexile, sick, ill, doying far Hawaii from 
hpme." 

Peteter flashes his eyes and nods forgiveness. 
"Next time, Harald, next time. Next week. Don't 
worry about it." 

Next week: "Peteter, tings moch bedder. All vik 
tings gud, den lass nut gorlfriend she gotta go 
captn futtbol fuck. I kennot schlip, I kennut dink, 
I kennit writ pepper." 

The excuses will stretch wearily through the 
remainder of the semester, grinding down Peteter's 
defenses like an endless rain; his outstretched hand 
retreats weekly further into his body, until, by 
reading period, it is no more than a helplessly 
quavering thalidomide flipper affixed to narrow 
academic shoulder, barely strong enough to 
receive the four by six-inch sheet of paper that 
Hardrada delivers with the death-blow: 
"Peteter, vi vet tu longg. Pepper kennat be writ. 
Here I hev Dinsexkus." 

And that is how Hardrada takes care of his 
work: administratively. I, his roommate, look on 
in horror ... Harald," I say, "write the paper. Write 
anything, or they'll flunk you." 

"Fuck off, shift head," he answers. "Go grind 
away, you wimp, leave me alone. Go buttwarm 
black vinyl in CCL, asshole, spill ersatz catpiss 
coffee on machine city formica and your polyester-
smegma linoleum Coop shirt. Let me sleep, Jerk." 

And Hardrada, an exile, goes corpselike on his 
bed. Peteter calls on the telephone, and HH is 
incensed by the ringing, he turns blue and bites 
through his pillow, spreading down all over the 
room, while I explain that Harald is not well, 
Peteter, not well at all; in fact, I am about to call 
Mental Hygiene, yes, that bad. It's the pressure, 
and he misses his home, Peteter, think of him 
home in the snow zipping over frozen solitude on 
tiny yellow Ski-doo; above him unfolds Aurora 
Borealis, you know, Peteter, up in Norway on a 
clear day you can even see the curvature of the 
Earth. 


IV

In the years after leaving the University I 
travelled four of the five continents and five of the 
seven seas in the shadow of Harald and Thuli 
Vemsl~ H. 

Harald was my roommate through our last year 
as undergraduates, at one of the influential Ivied 
phrontisteries of the North-eastern United States. I 
believe he was -
as a writer once put it -
one of 
those who appear to have been sent only to tell 
you something about your life; yet the years have 
not divulged his message. It hovered around my 
travels, peripherally, slightly out of reach, for a 
very long time -
but no longer; I think of him 
ever less often. What remains now of our 
acquaintance is a Husky bitch I acquired three 
winters ago, out of vague and somewhat 
embarrassed curiosity, because it so closely 
resembled the one he kept in our dormitory room. 
It maintained the freshness of our pillows by 
biting through them as soon as they began to tire 
and deflate, no longer in any way ominous to a 
puppy's imagination. And I have named it after 
his: Bogart. 

Of Hardrada himself there is little to say; the 
ambiguity of meaning that slipped behind our 
singularly formal relations was not a function of 
our college years, but of the following period of 
disorientation which retroactively qualifies any 
prolonged but now terminated residence within an 
institution; at the time, I was fascinated solely by 
his sister, Thuli Vems~. 

By an irony which seemed designed specifically 
to please me -
for I disliked Hardrada -
she was 
his physical antithesis: while he was very blond 
and pale, so much so that on first meeting him his 
faded blue eyes struck me as a denial of albinism, 
Thuli's hair was jet-black, very straight at 
shoulder-length, and her skin of an extraordinary 
peach quality. Her eyes, the iris framed by a 
narrow black circle, which lent it a sort of 
autonomy from the rest of her face, were also 
blue, but of a darker, richer shade. She was very 
tall, taller than Harald, almost as tall as I am; she 
wore blue-jeans -
something of a uniform in 
those days -
better than anyone I had ever seen, 
or have seen since. 

Until I met her, I could only think of her as 
primarily elusive. Before I shared rooms with 
Hardrada I could glimpse her no more than once 
every two or three months, in the post-office, on 
the steps in front of the library, in the university 
store; and once, late on a Saturday night, when 
finally I had become convinced that she had left 
for what we called, somewhat self-consciously, a 
"leave of absence," I saw her in the oversize 
parking-lot of a roadside movie-house a few miles 
down the coast from the campus, where I had 
driven with two friends to see the season's success. 
It was Looking for Mr. Goodbar, and I remember 
it only because, upon exiting and stepping down 
into the lot, I saw her very far away, instantly 
recognizable, wandering noiselessly across the 
beam of a spotlight illuminating a corner of 
asphalt through an exceptionally warm April 
night. A car door slammed shut, and she vanished 
for five months; I leaned on my window-sill, 
having just finished unpacking, as a small French 
car, its sun-roof open, pulled to a stop across the 
street. Both doors opened, the left one yielding 
Hardrada, the right one the girl; I didn't yet know 
they were brother and sister. 

And I was foiled from the start: she didn't help 
him carry his bags to the room. 

-
My name is Hardrada, he said. 
Hello, Harald. 
I was in Calhoun last year. I hope this'll be 
better. 

Calhoun, another college on the campus -
mine, now his, was Branford, after a neighboring 
town -
was to my knowledge no better or worse 
than any other; I told him that I wished him luck; 
he grunted, and thus began the last year of my 
education. 


**Title: THE CHARIOT**
**Author: Martha Hollander**
**Page number(s): 5**

THE CHARIOT.

From an Old Dialogue
In memory of C. P. Cavafy
The Greek poet, licking a lone
Finger to smooth his eyebrow, said:
"Fate is the hand that separates
Us, cleaving between with all the
Force of tempests." He lived amid
Brilliant cities of the present,
Where the streets gleam more clearly
Than any god's flame -
languid voice
Breaking, head turning for a quick
Glance at the receding profile
Of a young loved one. Someone had
Just left the parlor quietly.

Now I asked him: "Then what binds us?
This fate is our only mother,
The arm bending all around us
To ease the tender quantity
Of infant two into grown one.
She flings the passion of surprise
From her hand." But I saw his eyes
Buried like layers of kingdoms,
Gone down below to early things,
And knew that no answer slept there.
This pale Alexandrian, sick
With the look of a photograph,
Speaks more slowly through the tarnish
Of Afterlife (brittle city
of followers, critics, lovers).
The power of once errant lips,
Eyes, fingers and wits trembles inside
His lost face -
and I remember
Even his own venturing through
Fate's loom and sharp, knotted spindle.
On a journey speeded by the
Grace of song and the promises
In new lustre, I still find him
And I am right -
on Fortune's rack.
Wasted by weak autumnal fires,
The poet in his silk cravat.


**Title: Return from Tokyo to Kyoto**
**Author: Margaret Cohen**

Return from Tokyo to Kyoto
Trajectory implicit in a rhyme
Betrays the band that seeks an and as mine
Already past this issue spelling time
One lines up squares and calls the boxes lines
Distraught recalls the promise of a ruse
Now newly offering the lure of can
Constraint of symbols borrowed to confuse
Which make one find a beggar in began
The concrete melts and masks its own disguise
And what seemed easy shines as broken glass
One peels away the foil from opaque glass
Demands a light and quickly shades one's eyes
To sigh if only one would not ask still
And flee the will of what, this why of will


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Cromwell Berlin**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

desserts is just stressed
backwards
Cromwell Berlin.
elizabeth new jersey
on the road out of town exit 21
Cromwell
Berlin
if one's to the east and one's to the west, or if
one's first, but the other is best, and i suppose
one's got more than the other's little bit less but i
can't tell you
the sign tho, it's green drab envious green green
forego dollar bilious green yes we're building more
and it's all coming up green flamed green and oily
bric-a-brac-ob/ scream turd garish green ooze
Black Magic!
senseless no point i agree sometimes when yr
getting lost it gets outta hand i can but tell you
what i saw and if there's a message it's simple: no
comma no or no and
down the street a dog was barking. i could hear
his call but the window afforded only a limited
glimpse of the street below. perhaps i could have
opened the window but the cool morning air
would have woke her. besides it would have been
too obvious. how could i explain the attraction of
a stray's bark.
besides the cool morning air would have woke her.
sleeping dogs, lettem lie and as usual she lay
sleeping she played no part no longer huddled
beneath the blanket like a timorous child on her
side on the side of the bed her body and the
covers converged in a corner around which she
peeked i spied her lookin lookin at me her sneaky
eyes closed the fox i sought to go her a round but
she played no part no longer
fuck it fuck her why w 1 stand put up or shut up no
choice i went to the bed i slammed my hand the
butt in the mouth teeth outlined in blood crack
back her neck it snapped dagger down the spine
mine quick of breath sharp short sections across
the hairline down the chest ripslasb tear tearing
her skin away leaving her bared bared red and raw
the irritant scab exposed for the scar it was
a mere fantasy i realize it was fantastic drew back
the blanket i did incited yessir i was excited she
excited me the old in/ out and i was ready to make
my exit didn't want nothing to do w I her nossir
know that type -
in/ excite
exhale. counter joust parry thrust jet-propelled
tight rope it in slice it down right along the
competitive edge time to pick up the rapier and
sharpen it, tickle the ribs let's count the spaces
there's that one and there -
is that bone or skin?
only one way to find out ooo assert it in
exhale. breathe in slide back to square zero and
skip out again time to sharpen my erasure suspend
marginal misprint give and take no cramped
quarter, banging on the fucking radio, fucking,
getting up, fucking again in silence fuck fuck come
silence up and out where and when, waiting for
the money to run out and routine to descend.
the words had long since run out that coal new
year's nite. get me a glass of water she said don't
get pissed at yourself. i went to the bathroom,
finding and lighting a cigarette without bothering
to hit any switches. and just as i stepped in short i
stopped transfixed by the intruding cigarette's
reflection, a stare poking thru the mirror's cur-
tained dark. i pulled that cigarette from my mouth
i exhaled quick with force i blew it out but even
wf eyes closed wf eyes averted no escaping the
switch's masturbatory explosion, light splattering
and sticking, thrown pasted, violence on the tiles
glass filled, glazed eyes throbbing i watched them
drops cling linger a moment before slip slip
stealing away snapping snare slaps crisp pylon
loud mining the silence in the tempo of
resolution's serenade. i thought she said i thought
you were going to quit smoking. cig in band at the
hilt i stepped back. what does it take and bow
much one morning you wake up addicted the next
day the mirror's telling ya to quit was that the first
straw baby or is it the last she's past i mean
y'know sometimes it lasts all nite and sometimes it
takes all day but her, she just lasted one quick
take
Take I, an 8 X 10 glossy for the lawyer soon to be
salaried and then a few quick shots for the doctor
to come and then will, wrap it up clean sheets for
her a clean slate for me no, not a lurid episode
pornographic, well to a degree equally obscene for
us both the both of us ooo ooo baby BANANA/S
as then i look out a window out at the windows a
hundred mirrors in the building over there i look
out a window now and then does she lie yet
asleep, tight in bed? she left me impotent i left her
to go masturbate
below the perfect sink drop me in the water i'll
take a dive smooth muzzle/ d subfab sabotage
dear cain if i came or what if i went, rot-rootered
up the ass and down the drain, dear brother cain,
yr dogs they'd lick it up the dogs n'est-ce pas?
in Cromwell reside important personages swell
little dwellings i counted 14 churches
in Cromwell shrub symmetry inflects cursive frown
brow furrow shop and stop stiff
in Cromwell bouncing full blue belly wave pink
plump UNI-formed dead-serious still-born
in Cromwell hang down head down knock all nose
to the knee slosh down Stodge St. rinse it clean
the lowest common DEEnom raised to the hup
hut Moses pedigree
in Cromwell Big Daddy Saltshaker and his queen
the late Ms. Van Botwell Opener took their brand
new spoon dog, The Relaxor, out for a spin a ride
in the sewn sonic Scissorlimo sports car, did it go
far! a portly narrow wit a match in his spout unlit
Big Daddy bad never been known no one had ever
seenim go full speed or at all all-out fallout reserve
fair share sheltered ever and always Lookout!
wary wit weary fear foul weather impends Beware!
stock up stocks down stock water in cases in case
of drout
in Cromwell Big Daddy's bad little dog back barks
i wanna be your dog roll over fetch under no
smog
in Cromwell armed salvation inspects Watch it! if
y en rd this yr wall's too thin, yr dr's opin, bitter
off lock it, yes
in Cromwell Municipal Park it never gets dark no
one's ever scenit but on a nice sunday morning its
real nice of course you couldn't call it paradise but
you will cause if you doan lickit here head some-
place else Iemme tell ya iz equally bad so doan ya
spic in filthy tongues doan ya bad-mouth wheeze
all's equals here
in Cromwell w I out a doubt
snaps nothing true or is it all's confirmed false?
for the self-conscious person third the pursuit of
blank knowledge begins possessed of a proud,
passionate love and ends consumed in utter hatred
that he has attained his goal rests proven by
contempt.
the new journal, April 1979
the pure products of plato do all go hyperphrenic,
for if the Socratic dictum "know thyself" be thy
doctrine, the indifferent mirror bows in the dim
light before the altar ego. her rouged and distant
mystery lifts the hemlid of a seductive dawn. but
the puzzle/ d satisfied, the looking glass curses the
luke fluid dusk of these all top too curtained
desires. and empty'd between the day flames hell
translucid.
and the gazer whose faith would have him dwell in
hell's heaven, for him who would twist each whisp
of the spectrum inside out, for him for whom the
choice is not hard and soft-written in black on
white, for him for whom real be but one pole, the
pale end where fake becomes false and false fiction
and the faith that would deny heaven a hell, that
would the base rejoice and best detest, the faith
that would all less all unless, the faith that would
peer to the shiny pearl-handed reflecting pistol, the
faith that would suck the smoke and breathe a
blessure scrupulous and blessed
can such a mountainous faith be that and still be
damned bad?
then i will thrust my wriggling tongues in my
posscats and keep them there with my dirty fingers
i/ 11 jump and wiggle white-enrapt to a mad
straight-jacket beat my feet twitch my ears delete
what would you die for? a contradiction in terms?
lose yr sanity? and for a guaranteed annual
income would you choose lobotomy, or
castration? idle chatter of the impressionable who
so pursued the all in tiny tip-toed ad/ ventures
faith in the garden so kiss the will that would
allow the kite-span to fall and the leaves with
wings endow allure unmeasured holds out an
infinite until but let go drops
sifting hints of the tip at the end of the nose
behold hints insusceptible beyond pain beneath
pleasure blank leisure -
domain of the white
stained page-white listless and listening as the
leaves dead and dying twist to cry and flake from
the trees in swept decadent breeze clattering aloud
and underfoot
the lights split my shadow threw three one tall one
fading back the one up ahead outta reach her the
near quick one .can never overtake never meet
sifting hints slipping urban above floating charcoal
smoked evening orange pressed in air extinguished
or embittered alight that one telling moment, pain
or delight who could reply
these bony stragglers we see do they take wing or
track in abandoned shadows the vacant lot does
the cruel warbling return i must know who could
testify it's cold and i sense snow
who could testify walking in sleep another nite
another nite no safe sleep all my dreams broken
and closed who could testify
the red jacket vacuum cleaner who disturbed my
feet the manhole's sudden gush beneath the blue
cop club who rapped my chair to sleep who could
testify
walkin south where broadway hits on ftfth
plummeting above the deco windows went aqua
splashing the low thin light lying low like for on
the marne waterfall splashing spindly treefd there
in flat-iron square who could testify
walkin west to east down 14th the light blue above
cradling a crescent neon false too brite the deep
sea blue true at my back the dawn about to break
who could testify the flattened bags the forgotten
flyers swirling discarded outta luck in the curb by
the street the fresh cut twine from the early bird
edition i heard the wind whine and wheeze the
road closed right angles all my dreams weary of
sleep
who could testify the spastic his hand twisted tense
and turned up at the wrist resting hip on his




**Title: untitled**
**Author:  unknown**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the new journal, April 1979 
holster his nose kept inches from the shop street 
glass did he see me 
hugging myself shaking beneath a burned-out 
lampost under the snow of nite i met him by he 
stumbled bundled up tight stingy-rapt, a refugee 
pace by proud pace he plowed his path he had 
closed his eyes and deserted he would die with the 
wind in his face to fate, face to the west in wild 
abandon retreat into the desert aspiring de-
hydrated orphan leg amputated game leg limping 
drunken he had lavished the sand with a rough 
scarred tongue stuck clutch spit's sweat he ran the 
rail a long split picket fencefd he spat to spit and 
sought the winter shore of the burned bright sand 
assured i put my arm about him said come quiver 
together into the new day i came close to comfort 
whispering of the promised farmhouse bam down 
the road down south the home we'd both missed 
the lonely home where faith oft a quarter and 
takes bed in a humble prayer the forgotten home 
where a kind gesture is given and understood in 
kind, not loaned by the weak, not thought weak at 
all i reached to brush back his hair i asked him 
could he speak 
afbrusqut thumb slowly moving down a neck. 
fingers toy with an ear, squeeze the lobe, trace the 
jaw, and stretch the tenderest skin. again the 
thumb down the neck slides the hand slips to joiri 
it. fingers and thumb together they clasp, straining 
to collide. click, shut her. 
alabastard secure. crossed ivory white. thigh tite. 
leading up upd ringd rosey heights. 
knifed at rape-point. blood red the bed some folks 
can't help wishin -
that kind's better off dead. 
better off dead than disguised -
like Ensign Gary 
Redletter thin-lipped equipped encountered Rouge 
S. and her twin sister's twin, the late Alibi 
Alibi asked for a five figure G he said glory she 
said gooey, green, jolly and giant "you're a goner" 
he said going she said when, however then of 
course the question was 
wide of the mark right off the bat a miserable 
start's ill-conceived end there always a neck-tie 
said Gary lost Alibi's not found again 
there must be a way out i know it she cried we 
could come down clean i've seen it it can't be 
denied 
quick magic hand breadth of a sleeve whispd 
~ 
pillow promise sleep not grieve slipknot dangling 
she can't breathe hush hush meek Alibi, thou shalt 
believe 
sis she scenit she quit town her sister you touched 
her now she ain't around sis you seen her yes i'm 
sure she the one combin her hair in yr husband's 
eyes she on her knees, Mr. Washington, tweaxtz 
yr senator's thighs sis you watched her she'd pay 
to win "Sis Rouge, why -
haven't you heard, she 
moved to Berlin" 
in Berlin out of on the town time Rouge met. this 
here true hard to come by murican man he came 
off the pipeline, for the Fest, y'unnerstan. ravaged 
face and bloody passport he'd pay'd his tolls not 
muscatel, yacudteU, stained clothes, y'know 
and when they met, (that cultural occasion), it 
took a touch Sis on the ol whic-knic fnoc-knack 
specially since she asked she asked after she was 
after himandhis landmark. (demands delicacy, 
ya'gree) 
and when they met (it being a cultural occasion), 
they had to go about a bout -
their exchanging 
Troy Donahue, the autograph a smile a laughfter 
always awkward the laughter after words. 
as for me i admit it i too emitted right there i 
introduced them i picked them i took a pic its 
right here by m.y old fake i.d. Hear, y'see 
from the wallet, a plea 
me fickle pric.k salute relucant. at whim -
if and 
when and sometimes not at all. she was insulted 
however, no my limp flounde.ring seemed to her 
quite incomprehensible. comic and absurd. tho' 
such insubordination was without precedent she 
did not consider it an affront to her vanity -
how 
could she, such thoughts did not occur. au 
contraire, it tickled her little randy fancy it did. 
i too laughed. in such predicaments one must 
muster. yes boys when not the prick stiffen the 
upper lip and of course propriety demands no 
tiresome apologies. ·and dear ladies, should your 
lover fmd himself in this unfortunate predicament, 
do not think the pathetic fallacy the deluded's 
foolish solace. 


no it ain't a lame lie, this etiquette of impotence to 
be true love the little sub scout does have a will of 
his own you know it and i know it and we both 
know what he means to say and it is uh-uh thanks 
but no thanks 
yet when i think back to consider what i had 
presumed an unpardonable offense, i must admit 
her reaction was quite congenial, "sympathique" is 
the word, is it not my dear? 
whatever word what but not fear how could you 
snigger see me fear fear's no option no option 
knows no fear that word came to your mind not 
mine won't admit it fear's yr ticket it gyps you 
every time. 
what's this make -
SX in a row, missed again, 
why i don't really know deep down inside was he 
my lover or just after my dough strange i can't 
tell, impotent yet a gigolo? 
coarse not fool the european son is a prodigal not 
a problem child don't talk to me of fear o dear 
ladies you know i've already met million of 'em 
you can see it in my eyes less the shit make no 
·sense it's a gyp not worth the price of your fear 
o so birddog doan get down on me if you won't 
go down we're both in it for the suck suckle so . 
extend your talons reach for the sky reach for it 
lickit liket do like ya do my drag's last cig. run 
your hands from collar to hip count my ribs 
spread my chest suck my adam's apple all that and 
the rest too 
o yes dear ladies now we want for your body not 
your asshole mind we're sweaty and dirty and sex 
pulses under our finger nails in deep down and 
under we want you writhing, wiggling, under our 
thumbs 
we want you all over magazines gums and shoe-
laces we want you every one by one we wanna 
couple, times three a menagerie of rings about 
each for every fmger we don't want you song we 
wanna swing with the singer 
we want you in the kitchen on top or under the 
table we want you for breakfast hot steady 
flavored Maypo maple we want you for dinner 
sup sup cheer up grand luncheons are fabled 
we want you in scarfs in knots we want you from 
top to sweet bum bottom we want you so bad 
warm smokes the gun we want you here and now 
no matter what when in any whether we want you 
in our pants in warm woolly socks we want you in 
our nostrils this itch never ever stops 
we wanna seduce you we wanna recruit you we 
wanna oppress, suppress and even beat you and 
once we get to know you then we wanna meet you 
so help me keep my happy c'mon momma this 
ain't no con you're too cool to fool let's turn it on 
it ain't warm enough let's get hot electronic plug it 
in right there in the socket the lights will sputter 
shake and shout sparks will fly we'll count their 
bounce the light will buzz and bulb spizzle spout 
and we won't fiZZle but fry with an errie ow wow 
bang blackout whew baby let's explode and fall 
out 
i tell ya girl they switched it cast is cheap stuff it 
creep dingy dim-wit ill-lit but o baby back once 
upon a time lost in everpresent non-niscient 
rhythm back inconceivable dark ages ago-go back 
before that there might have been a might have 
been there might have been a paradise where 
desire bloomed need's dream. then came desire 
mourn the fall believe in nothing or nothing at all 
fuck that what snake admits a fall fuck that he 
can make you crawl on your hands and knees 
come to me baby you either want it or you don't 
make up your mind or make up the bed 
o my love my love may gently slap you i would 
caress you with roses with the roses i brought you, 
with kisses tap you and suck your very soul my 
love that worthless gift so few can give you you 
could give· me too my love my love may gentle 
first tho' i slap you wake up go ahead gimme head 
spin me like a top you'll warble for joy, in turn, 
i'm bored; my turn, o boy, let's go at it girl, a 
cheap de-meaning toy in the tub 
o how can i say, unsuited, ill-mannered, my 
hesitant way, but it's the highest compliment 'a 
good lay' (what can i afford) i can pay 
shall i say she represents the past? ought i say she 
personified it? she's long gone downed-out beyond 
whisper and reach what more can i say Redletter's 
up the river and Rouge plies her livin in Berlin 
this one then for fortune, my friends ted and ken, 
and that master exhibitionist henry miller -
whose name doth not matter in 471 well-thumbed 
book pages: 
hassle blue blonde 
yes they tell me 0 Wally 
Mr. Stevens he showed up and the office every day 
and commuted to scribble at nite 
i hear henry miller fucked 
and wrote his life 
can that be beat? 
yes they tell me black is black 0 Wally 
yellow seem tometo halve/ d, pinned you down: 
atonal. incurable complexion lack. 
(that's color #12 in yr pnt by #'s dream box) 
yes they tell me bad is bad 0 Wally 
i hear cadence the question 
tone and degree it's all luck 
how you take yours 
as for me 
bad luck deserves honor runs hot and cold 
bad luck comes in colors not silver not gold 
bad luck in red yet known unsaid 
bad luck in white a whispered i might 
bad luck in blonde tomorrow's yesterday, all gone 
bad luck in grey a hey hey hey 
he's marchin down the street 
just wait'll ya meet 
BAD Luck 
all dressed up in black 
yea he once had promise/ d 
no lack. 
caugh coff 'n open up your poison deadly secretej e it 
logic crucified truth rambolt-it ream de alias 
redeem it ally all ugly undeniable fiction from 
highest smart to the dirty low-down shit-pure 
gossip column 
bend over for facts? be/ have or be/ lie matters not 
at the dead end be/ leave it she said go see the 
road signs, read them not ya ho ta ho 
for sybil from .. zinc song splat hits the 
pagement" 
elizabeth new jersey 


<br>

**Page number(s): 8**

8 
f'&l<:.e lP 'tOO COULC> t..6\ 
'SOMEONe e.~ u~ 
'T\~T N.<X.IC·U~ ~f 
IC:. 
\t\~e 
ANYTHING 
"" ~oR 
tlu~ 
\10R'SeY 
\..t"e 
t-\'(SELf 
CAN 
~0 
~P? 
) 



**Page number(s): 9**

'M5WWHILE ,., l 
,, 
~~;H~••·*· 
\ 
nove 
114 
ittle 
oterie ·~ 
eselT'Onists , 
9 



**Who's the Biggest Senti-God and Friend to You and Me?**
**Author: Spiro Matsos with Mark Sheehan**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 
thP nPw iournal, April 1979 
Who's the Biggest Senti-God and Friend to You and Me? 
S: The first pizza I made, it was in 1963, was a 
great success. I couldn't believe it. People lift me 
up in their hands, there was clapping, they tour 
me around town, the band of the city was 
playing. . . 
. 
M: How old were you when you made your first 
pizza? 
S: Oh, uh, I don't know, that would give ·away my 
age ... 
M: You don't have to give away your age. 
S: I was 
. Now I'm going to start crying. 
Memories -
all these memories! And then we 
used to go up to the lake and drink beer and eat 
pizza ... 
M: This was in Greece? 
S: No, no! This was here! In central Connecticut! 
And then my second pizza was my biggest, 
biggest, yet. People were applauding and ever 
since I know that I would definitely be a semi-god 
if I would live two thousand years ago. But, that 
is, if I would have Eukleides to invent a pizza 
dough for me. 
Spiro. Matsos, Pizzamaker to the Stars 
S: Making pizza is one of the loveliest occupations 
that anybody can be in. The people that you meet! 
I mean the song people, the dance people, the 
people people ... Of course, that is, if you like 
people. Because I know some very grouchy pizza 
people, and some of them run the leading pizza 
places in New Haven. . . 
· 
Yale has to admit that it is very lucky that I'm 
here, one of the definite semi-gods of the pizza. 
S: Someday I am going to do a musical based on 
the Bulldog. I will have a small part myself on 
stage, of course. 
M: Will you make pizza on stage? 
S: Oh, definitely. 111 wear my apron and do a 
dance. 
S: We were on national television last year, a 
gentleman from the CBS Morning News, he said 
that a "Barker" calls the Bulldog and barks every 
night for a whole year and he is going to be 
barking until he graduates from Yale ... And on 
Christmas Day he even called from Los Angeles 
and barked at the Bulldog ... 
And then another fine young man called one 
time and he wanted to be the Bulldog Meower ... 
But I don't know. I don't think the Bulldog can 
have a Meower. But he is a good customer. 
S: If I had a fifteen-store chain of pizzerias 
without knowing anybody I would be very 
unhappy. Now I'm going to do this one day, but 
I'll definitely have one little store that I would be 
working like I always have since 1963. Of course I 
might just take a little break in between and 
record another album, another long-playing record 
like· I done in 1973 -
singing some of my favorite 
songs with one of the leading ladies of the Greek 
recording business ... 
M: Who's that? 
S: Oh, well of course her name is not familiar on 
the American market, but she is a very great lady, 
a very talented young lady -
Jet me see now, we 
have two pastrami, two -
oh, I see, we have three 
tunas -
that's correct, I'm sorry about that. .. 
Have to make these for the Campaign for Yale. 
Sometimes I call them the Champagne for Yale. 
Every time I deliver the pizzas there they are 
drinking wine and champagne ... 
S: Mrs. Mary Jane Taft, she is the second leading 
(pizza buyer) of all time. Fifty-five pizzas have 
gone to her. Entertaining the New York ballet 
company. 
M: The New York City Ballet? When was this? 
S: A few months back. 
M: How did you make fifty-five pizzas at once? 
S: Oh, come on, when you've been making pizzas 
since 1963, you can make -
M: But, l mean, you don't have the facilities ... 
S: Yes, yes, you make it with one oven and a little 
bit of love. Don't forget that I would be a semi-
god if I lived two thousand years ago. 
S: Just like I was saying before, gentlemen, the 
Bulldog in downtown Tel Aviv, it might upset 
some of the Greeks in that area, but it's going to 
be very successful: Matsos Pizza -
in downtown 
Tel Aviv. Making pizzas for the Iranian king and 
the head of the old Greek military coup. We're 
going to have Bulldog copters to do the delivery 
on the war lines on the Suez Canal. We're going 
to have B-52's make aerial bombardments with 
pizza to the troops. 
S: We are famous this year, gentlemen. We are 
going to appear in the Yale yearbook. In person, 
the Bulldog is going -
are you graduating this 
year? 
M: Yes. 
S: You are, so you can take the yearbook back 
home and point to the Bulldog and tell your 
mother, Mother, she (the Bulldog) fed me away 
from home. That's beautiful. How lucky can you 
get? 
Spiro Matsos with Mark Sheehan


**Fashion Forecast '79**
**Author: Woolsey Grove**
**Page number(s): 11**

the new journal, April 1979 
Fashion Forecast '79 
Beltloop groin grabbers. 
by Woolsey Grove 
Why wear your heart on your sleeve, when you 
can hang your soul from your beltloop? 
Communication is the key. When you're 
dancing with that new-found friend, there are just 
so many questions you'd like answered. (Is he a 
freshman? Does she give head? Will he wear my 
soiled panties?) But the music is too loud, and 
besides, those questions are just so hard to ask. 
And in today's quick-dancing, quick-food, quick-
sex society, no one wants to waste their time 
barking down the wrong alley. 
So let them know. Visually. Learn the code and 
fly your colors. Every top designer will be 
featuring these beltloop accessories in their spring 
collections. These fashions originated in (were 
stolen from) the gay communities of New York 
and San Francisco, where horny honchos hung 
colored hankies from back pockets and key rings 
from beltloops to signal sexual desires and 
deviances. This eliminated the need for the verbal 
communication which aU too often led only to 
disappointment and frustration. 
Now you too can enjoy the ease and impact of 
visual communication by "shooting from the hip." 
Try out these Ivy-League adaptations at your next 
mixer (Ladies, you'll have to wear pants again.) 
Just make sure you're wearing them on the correct 
side. Remember: on the left is what you've got to 
offer; on the right is what you're looking for. 
Hankies: Different colors mean different things in 
different places. At intercollegiate social affairs, fly 
your school colors in your left pocket. If you want 
to sample the offerings of other colleges, wear 
their colors in your right pocket. A Yale woman 
with a red hankie in her right pocket is looking 
for a Harvard man. A Yale man with an orange 
hankie in the right pocket is looking for a 
Princeton woman. A Yale woman with a green 
hankie in her right pocket is looking for a black 
eye. 
At Yale affairs the hankies have nothing to do 
with school colors, but instead adhere to the 
following code: 
Red 
In the left pocket: "rm having my period, so 
stay out of my pants, but let's talk and maybe you 
can get into my head." 
In the right pocket: "Frankly, I'm desperate, so I 
don't mind messy sex." 
Blue (seen mostly at alumni affairs, worn by either 
sex, and usually in the right pocket): 
"I am looking for a position as a domestic in the 
home of a wealthy Old Blue whom I will furnish 
with sexual favors in return for vast amounts of 
money and lots of free time to finish my novel." 
Yellow 
In the right pocket: "The only reason I come to these 
fraternity parties is because I like to watch fat sweaty 
jocks drink gallons of beer and piss it out in garbage 
cans. I want to follow you into the bathroom, watch 
you urinate in the sink, and let you take me on 
the slimy tile floor." 
In the left pocket: "The only reason I joined this 
fraternity is because I like to watch fat sweaty 
jocks drink gallons of beer and piss it out in 
garbage cans. After you girls go home, us guys 
who are left over go into the bathroom, piss in the 
sink, and take each other on the slimy tile floor." 
Green (as in money) 
In the left pocket: "The only reason I came to this 
mixer is because the Fence Club is being 
repainted, and I can't tell you which is worse -
the smell of the paint or the smell of the painters." 
In the right pocket: "I'm a music student from the 
Bronx on a full scholarship. My father is a baker. 
I'm looking for a rich preppie who plays hockey 
whom I can humiliate and eventually marry before 
I die of leukemia." 
KEY RINGS: Even the gays couldn't figure out 
what the key rings meant. Maybe left was 
dominant and right was passive, but nobody knew 
what the keys meant. We offer the following 
suggestions for Yale College: 
(Key rings are to be worn outside of the pants 
barging from the right or left belt loop.) 
11 
On the left side: How smart are you? Let 
everyone know by wearing your GPA. One key 
means your GPA is one, two your GPA is two, 
three it's three, and four you're probably a liar. 
For day-wear, end that embarrassing "what'ja get" 
syndrome by wearing aU four keys to class and 
removing the appropriate amount (if necessary) 
after you get back your paper or exam. 
On the right side: What year are you? Stop 
wasting everybody's time. Let them know before 
you dance with them. One key if you're a fresh-
man, up to four keys if you're a senior. Grad 
students should not be going to undergraduate 
mixers. 
Of course, hankies and key rings can be worn in 
combinations, but usually these are predictable. 
For instance, a guy with four keys hanging on the 
left, or one key on the right, will usually sport a 
red hankie in the right pocket. "I've never been 
with a woman before in my life, and I'm so 
desperate I don't mind messy sex. I don't even 
mind getting a 8 on my midterm on Monday." 
Other things besides keys lend themselves to 
beltloop wear and your special message. Attach 
them to your beltloop with a piece of leather 
rawhide. We particularly like the following: 
Hood ornaments: What kind of car do you 
drive? What kind of car would you like to ride in? 
What kind of car would you like to fuck in? Steal 
a hood ornament from the appropriate car and 
wear it on the appropriate side. Left if you've got 
the car, right if you're looking for a ride. 
A Swingline Stapler: "I just got my senior essay 
back from Tyco. It still has to be collated and 
stapled. This is a delicious moment for me and I 
would like to intensify it by having you sit under 
the desk and suck my cock/ eat my pussy while I 
do it." 
A cork screw: "Yve got a bottle of wine in my 
room. The good kind that you have to open with 
a corkscrew. Let's go up and drink it and when 
you're good and fried ru drill your skull." 
A can opener: "I belong to a fraternity and I 
have a case of beer in the car. Let's go out and 
drink it and then piss on the tires." 
A Dildo: "I'm a feminist. If you want to fuck 
me, you have to let me fuck. you first." 
A Skate K~y: On the left: "I want to take you 
back to the room and skate up and down your 
spine." On the right: "Only if you wear ice skates." 
A nail clipper: On the right: "Yve rented a Yale 
refrigerator for four years just to keep the butter 
from melting, and rve never had a chance to use 
it. After we dance this tango, will you come up to 
my room with me? Just don't tell me your name." 
A calculator (worn with polyster pants) On the 
right side: "rm a nerd. You don't want anything 
to do with me." On the left side: "I am a left-
handed nerd, and you don't want anything to do 
with me, either." 
So there they are folks, somethina for everyone. 
If your favorite bobby or fantasy has been left 
out, invent your own beltloop bangle. Yalies are 
great at interpreting symbols, especially English, 
Psychology, and History of Art majors, and 
they're the only ones worth going to bed with 
anyway. Happy hunting . . . 


**One Day in the Surreal**
**Author: Jamie Romm**
**Page number(s): 12**

12 
One Day in the Surreal 
by Jamie Romm 
(As the curtain rises, a man is alone onstage, pacing back and forth in an 
agitated manner. The scenery is vague.) 
MAN: (looking impatiently at his wrist, which yields no watch) Jesus, where 
is be? Well, I've had it! I can't wait around like this forever. I still have the 
capacity to act! I'm going to call him up and fmd out what's taking him so 
goddamn long. (Goes to a pay phone at the side of the stage, inserts coin, 
dials.) Hello? Information? Yes, I'd like the number of a Godot, G-0-D-0-T. 
Thank you. (Pause) No, operator, I don't have a fi.I'St name. No, I don't 
have an address either. (pause) What's that? You can't? Well bow many of 
them can there be? I see. Yes. Thanks anyway, operator. (Hangs up.) Damn 
those information operators! They always want you to know everything -
flrst names, addresses, social security numbers .... Don't they realize that 
our existence is dark and shadowy and obscured by nameless phantoms? We 
can't be expected to know anything! But try explaining that to an 
information operator and she'll laugh in your ear. If only I were Samuel 
Beckett -
then I could tell those information operators a thing or two. 
(Looks impatiently at his wrist, throws up his hands) Jesus, where is he? 
(Begins pacing again. A 2nd MAN enters, comes up quickly behind him, and 
tries to lift his head off.) 
MAN: Hey! What tb-
2nd MAN: Oh, I'm sorry, I thought you were a mannequin. 
MAN: Get out of here, you fag! 
2nd MAN: I am not! (exits) 
MAN: Goddamn arrogant queen! (Begins pacing again. A 3rd MAN enters. 
MAN stops him as be crosses.) 
MAN: Excuse me, do you have the time? 
3rd MAN: Ex post facto, my dear boy! Cogito ergo sum! 
MAN: Er .. . how do you mean? 
3rd MAN: Just look at the bank clock, friend! (points) It's that simple! In 
medias res! 
MAN: Yes, but are you sure that's the right time? 
3rd MAN: Why of course, of course! It's the profit motive, can't you see. If 
the bank clock reads the wrong time, the bank becomes mistrusted, and 
people take their business somewhere else. Time is money, money time -
it's that simple! Quod erat demonstrandum, boy -
that's the spirit. 
MAN: I see. Thank you very much. 
3rd MAN: Not at all, my friend. (Exits. A 4th MAN walks on, calling .. Hot 
dogs! Hot dogs! He carries a wooden ashtray on his bead.) 
MAN: Hey! You there! You haven't got any hot dogs! 
4th MAN: So what? Neither do you. 
MAN: Yes, but I'm not walking around shouting "hot dogs." 
4th MAN: rm not stopping you. 
MAN: (Annoyed) Well why the hell would you want to walk around 
shouting '"hot dogs" without any bot dogs? 
4th MAN: I was quoting. (Whips out a book, opens it) See? Act 3, Scene 2, 
line 5. "Hot dogs, hot dogs, hot dogs." It's right here in the text. 
MAN: Sounds like a pretty stupid play to me. 
4th MAN: It's better than the one you're in. 
MAN: (Ignoring this) What's that you've got on your head? 
4th MAN: A wooden ashtray that ~urns, yei is no(consumed. 
MAN: (Interested) Is that right"! (.t'eers at ltJ now ..aucn you want for 1t? 
4th MAN: Eh, this ashtray's not for sale. It's priceless. It was once used by 
Jean-Paul Sartre. By the way, do you know the time? 
MAN: Just look at the bank clock. 
4th MAN: The bank clock? But that's the wrong time. (laughs hideously, 
exits) 
MAN: (pacing again) The wrong time! But that's impossible! What about 
the profit motive, and all that? Still -
if it were wrong -
even by a little bit 
-
that could throw everything off. That would explain why he's not here 
yet! Oh Jesus, where IS he? (pause) Why didn't I wear a watch? I never wear 
a watch. I don't even own a watch. I remember when I first learned about 
daylight savings, I decided to stop using watches -
if a group of legislators 
in Washington can change the time whenever they feel like it, then a watch 
is just a waste of money. Why, if a tyrant were to seize power, he could 
change the time at will to suit his own purposes ... Of course, then all the 
clocks and watches would have to be confiscated .... Everyone would 
wander around all day asking .. What time do you think it is?" u1 don't 
8:04 
the new journal, April 197~ 
know, what do you think?" .. Think it's lunchtime yet?" "I don't know, I 
can't tell" ... (suddenly realizes he bas been wandering, becomes angry). Oh 
God, when is he going to get here? (pause) Footsteps. That's all there are 
anymore, just one foot after another. Left, right, up, down, as we keep 
pondering it all, it all, it all, it all -
(5th MAN suddenly enters, inter-
rupts MAN) 
5th MAN: Excuse me, but were you just repeating the words "it all"? 
MAN: Yes, I guess I was. 
5th MAN: I see. My name is ... Mr. Zimbalist. 
MAN: (looking over 5th MAN's shoulder) My God, did you see that? 
5th MAN: See what? 
MAN: That bank clock! It just jumped from 8:03 to 8:05!•1 swear I saw it! 
5th MAN: I don't see any bank clock. 
MAN: You're looking in the wrong direction, jerk! 
5th MAN: What do you mean? Which one is the right one? 
MAN: (excited) This one here! This is the right direction! 
5th MAN: Don't you think you're being a bit arbitrary? 
MAN: No, dammit! This is the right direction! 
5th MAN: (staring elsewhere) I like this one just fme. 
MAN: (recognizing something familiar) Say, who are you? Who sent you 
here? 
5th MAN: Sorry, but I must go. Toodles! (Skips off). 
MAN: (staring at bank clock) I swear I saw that thing jump from 8:03 to 
8:05! It's the damnedest thing. You can't just skip a whole minute like that! 
The clock must be wrong. Still -
what if it was right? What if that whole 
minute had just vanished? Would everything be different? Would everyone 
move ahead one minute, or stay the same? (Looks down at himself) I'm still 
in the same place .... but then I might have been standing here for that 
whole minute! What about a guy who was supposed to shoot himself exactly 
at 8:04- is he still alive, or did he just die a minute later? (6th MAN walks 
on; MAN stops him) 
MAN (pointing to clock) Excuse me, is that the time? 
6th MAN: Yes. 
MAN: (Doubting) The right time? 
6th MAN: I don't know what you mean. 
MAN: (emphatically) Is that the right time or not? 
6th MAN: That's the time! It's the only clock in town, and everyone goes by 
it! There's no question of right or wrong. 
MAN: You mean everyone goes by that time, and nothing else? 
6th MAN: Of course! And it's a damned good thing that Godot opened that 
bank, because -
MAN: Godot owns that bank? 
6th MAN: (suspiciously) Yes ... why do you ask? 
MAN: Just -
just curious. 
6th MAN: You're not from around here, are you? 
MAN: No. 
6th MAN: Well it might be best not to ask so many questions .... You've 
just made me miss the 8:04. Excuse me. (exits). (Pause as MAN watches him 
leave. Then, a 7th MAN enters, unlike the others, from the shadow at the 
back of the stage.) 
7th MAN: Excuse me, but are you the man being referred to here as 
"MAN"? 
MAN: Yes, are you Godot? 
7th MAN: No. He sent me. 
MAN: Well where the Hell is he? I've been waiting here for hours! 
7th MAN: He was here. He said he couldn't fmd you so be left. 
MAN: When was he here? 
7th MAN: 8:04. 
MAN: Ob God! 
7th MAN: Don't worry. He'll be back soon. He asked you to wait for him. 
MAN: Christ, I've already been here half a day! What am I supposed to do 
till he gets here? 
7th MAN: Here, read this. (Hands him a book, then steps silently back into 
the shadow.) 
MAN: (Opens book, reads aloud.) "Act One. Estragon, sitting on a low 
mound, is trying to take off his boot. He pulls at it with both hands, 
panting. He gives up, exhausted, rests, tries again. Enter Vladimir. 
ESTRAGON: Nothing to be done .... " 
(Fade to black. Curtain.) 
C7 



**Title: September**
**Author: R. H. Pershan**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
This is a blue stopping view 
A church mitre with a thin metal cross 
Crossing a land strip countless distances 
Above a cold September yawn of lake 
Wind-riffled, blue and eloquent 
To the right is a single spot sailboat 
Inspired to sail no doubt yet photo stopped 
A stopped triangle 
The cross puts the landscape in focus 
Puts it in indisputable reference 
With respect to the one metal axis 
So all may be located and plotted 
The stopped triangle of the sailboat 
Being simply to the right 
The fmger strip of land simply above 
The church axiomatically below 
On the banks of the shore climbing away 
From the church at a loping right angle 
Are flower gardens white green and rust red 
Each color picked for some special reason 
Each plant regulated in row and kind 
By some perfect squaring monk who one day 
Inspired by the cross atop the church 
Saw Christ and laid angles on the world


**Title: Celebration**
**Author: Patricia Nelson**
**Page number(s): 14**

A student knocks at the door. 
"C~>Uld you please be quiet?" he says. "We're 
trymg to study next door." 
"We're sorry," we say ... We were just having a 
class." 

I am talking with another graduate student. 
" I caught a glimpse of your class the other day " 
h 
« 
, 
e says. You must have been having your end-of-
the-term party." 
We weren't. 
• • • • 
The fact is, I'm terrible at parties. My mind 
goes blan~. I try to remember what other people 
do at parttes to have fun. I wonder which people 
in the room dislike me. I wonder how long it will 
be till I do or say something stupid. 

So when my classes started being mistaken for 
parties, I was as perplexed as anyone. I was also 
embarrassed. I reflected on this a lot: 
Why were they mistaken for parties? 
Because they were often loud and animated. 
Why were they loud and animated? 
Because lots of people participated. 
Why did lots of people participate? 
Because I did everything I could to arrange the 
right atmosphere for open, natural, but purpose-
ful discussions. 

And therefore I had no reason to be embarrassed. 
But I still was. 
When the students next door asked us to be 
quiet, we were summing up the major issues of the 
course. Issue summation is often done in this 
form: 
Teacher: What were the major issues of the 
course? OR 
Teacher: The major issues of the course were 
these: ... 
We were doing it a little differently. We were 
having an election for the most significant Western 
American personal narrative. Thoreau's "Walking" 
was winning over Twain's Roughing It. If Thoreau 
won, it meant that intellectual Westernness might 
be more significant than geographical Western-
ness. The discussion was, I guess, loud. It was also 
educational, and more fun than 99% of the parties 
I've been to. 

I am not an educational anarchist. I am devoted 
to books. I think they should be read carefully, 
and responded to carefully. I also think they 
provide incomparable common ground for 
celebration. 

Celebration? In classes? 
I am in church in New Britain, Ct., with a group of 
~ummers. After I have led a few games, a woman 
m the congregation says to me: "How do you get 
the ideas for games like that?" 
.. It's actually an occupational skill," J say. "I 
teach." 
"Oh the children must love those games," she 
says. 

Children? At Yale? 
Mummers? In church? 
You know that gold building at Wall and Church? 
You know across the street from that, the Trinity 
Parish House, where the National Humanities 
Institute used to be, where professors from all 
over the country spent three years designing new 
and innovating courses to reinvigorate the 
teaching of the humanities? Well, you know what's 
in the basement of the Trinity Parish House, at 
the foundation, so to speak, of the National 
Humanities Institute? 
Clowns. A bunch of clowns. Well, Mummers, to be 
exact. 

Mummer: One who mums. 
Mum: To play in a dumb show mask or 
disguise; specif. Eng., to go about' in disguise at 
Christmastide making merry. 
In April 1977 two great classes ended. The students 
prepared to go home for the summer. I prepared 
to wait until they came back. In a last ditch stand 
against four months of social atrophy, I got a New 
Haven Advocate and vowed to do three things I 
found in it. 

I went to a Senior Citizens' Old-Fashioned 
Band Concert in Edgewood Park. 
I went to an Open Psychodrama Session at the 
Center for Human Relations. 
I went to the basement of the Trinity Parish 
House and took a clown workshop. 

Nothing much came of the first two tries. The 
third may have changed my life. 
In the Mummers' Club we do all we can to 
revive what, in modern urban-industrial times, are 
recessive traits: trust, spontaneity, festivity. The 
Midway Project (Midway between what you can 
imagine and what you can do) works with the 
strategy of inviting people to choose a name, 
metaphor, costume, activity: a clown persona. 

On Wednesday nights, I am Professor Chatter-
ton, Chatty among intimates. My intimates are 
Chance, Time, Gusto, Solow, Aladden, Pjat, 
Futurity, Circh, Morna, Ping Pong, Irving, Alto, 
Pockets, Half and Half, Kiwi, Glow, Skye. With 
maybe a few exceptions, we have all seen 
psychiatrists, with individual problems ranging 
from writer's block (Professor Chatterton here) to 
fairly severe disabilities. (Not that writer's block, 
to a Ph.D. candidate, can't fall under the latter 
category.) An objective observer, looking at this 
group, would not say that the prospects for 
common ground were very great. This evaluation 
would say a lot about the limits of objective 
observing. 

the new journal, April 1979 
Lo~g before I took the clown workshop, my 
teachmg style was developed and functioning. 
What I got from the clowns was the vision and 
faith to back it up. 
A W~nesday Night Mummers' Club Warm-Up. 
Ingredtents: Hammered dulcimer music. 
Ten to twenty people. 
The Assignment: Keep moving. 

If you are lucky enough to be trained in the 
latest disco steps, and if you can figure out how to 
adapt them to the music, you are free to follow in 
Travolta's footsteps. You are also free to: Hop up 
and down. Jig. Skip. Run in place. Resurrect 
remembered dances of the golden junior high 
school years (the Jerk?). Swing your partner (any 
one of the I0-20 people can be considered your 
partner). Play mirror games. Join hands and go 
round the mulberry bush. You are also free to try 
any of these in combination. What it comes down 
to is that you are just that: free. 

In the midst of this, if you have any sort of 
addiction to introspection, you can think to 
yourself: I am having a wonderful time -
at no 
expense, with no artificial stimulants, with no 
ecological damage. And it's good exercise. 
Bein~ a Mu.mmer~ in the Midway style, is a way of 
keepmg ethtcally m shape. Events with Mummers 
develop moral faculties that might otherwise 
atrophy for lack of exercise. Each activity carries 
implicitly, this assignment: 

Respect the sacredness of human life. 
Find a way to value each individual. 
If you have talents, use them as communal 
resources. 
Learn to recognize miracles when you see them. 

If this sound religious, it is. One definition of 
celebrate: to observe or perform a religious 
ceremony. Midway Mummers celebrate life. Pro-
fessors and students celebrate learning (i.e., life) . 
And that, l"ve finally figured out, is why my 
classes seemed like celebrations. 



**YALE SUMMER SCIENCES**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
YALE SU
YALE SUMMER
SCIENCES
June 11-August 18
Introduction to Biology, S-120a, S-120b $660
Laboratory Biology, S-120La, S-121Lb $326
Comprehensive General Chemistry, S-116a, 8-116b
$660
Laboratory General Chemistry, S-116La, S-116Lb
$326
Organic Chemistry, S-220a, S-221b $660
Laboratory Organic Chemistry, S-220La, S-221Lb
June 18-July 20
A First Course in Computer Programming, S-112a $676
Introductory Data Analysis, 8-230a $326


**SUMMER LANGUAGE INSTITUTE**

SUMMER LIIGUIGE
IISTITUTE
June 18-August 10
Elementary Modern Standard Arabic, S-116 $600
Spoken Arabic (Egyptian), S-119 $400
Intermediate Spoken Arabic (Egyptian), S-120 $400
Beginning Modern Chinese (Mandarin), S-116 $400
Elementary Spoken Cantonese, S-116 $400
Intermediate Modern Chinese (Mandarin), S-121 $600
Directed Reading Chinese, S-167 $400
Elementary Czech, S-116 $600
Intermediate Czech, S-130
Elementary and Intermediate Dutch, S-116 $400
English: Reading and Writing Expository Prose, S-114 $400
·English: L!terary lnterpretation:Close Reading in
Fiction. Drama and Poetrv S-116 $400
EngHsh Prose Style: Principles and Practice, S-120 $200
Major English Poets, Chaucer to Eliot, S-126 UOO
Elementary French, S-116
Intermediate French, S-130 $600
Advanced French, S-138 $400
The 20th Centry French Novel, S-166 $200
French Reading $200
Elementary German, S-116 $600
Intermediate German. S-130 $600
Advanced German, S-142
German Reading $200
Refres~er Course in German Reading $200
YALE
EB PBOGRA
Elementary Greek (Classical), S-110 $400
Elementary Greek (Modern), S-112 $600
Greek Poetry and Prose: an Introduction, S-300 $400
Elementary Hebrew, S-116 $600
Elementary Italian, S-116 $600
-- -
-- ·--
Intermediate and Advanced Italian, S-136 $400
Elementary Japanese, S-116 $400
Elementary Latin, S-110
Intermediate Latin, S-220 $400
Readings in Latin Literature, S-410 $400
Mathematics: Analytic Geomtery and Calculus, S-
llOa, S-Ub $660
Mathematics: Calculus of Functions of One Variable I
and II, S-112a, S-116b $660
Persian, S-116 $400
Elementary Polish, S-116 $600
Intermediate Polish, 8-130 $200
Elementary Portugese, S-116 $600
Elementary Russian, S-116 $60()
Intermediate Russian, S-122 $600
Advanced Russian, S-133 $400
Advanced Russian Composition and Reading, S-170
$400
Russian Reading $200
Elementary Serbo-Croatian, S-116 $600
Intermediate Serbo-Croatian, S-1SO $200
Elementary Spanish, S-116 $600
Intermediate Spanish, S-130 $600
Conversational Spanish, S-138 $400
Advanced Spanish, S-140 $400
Spanish Reading $200
Elementary and Intermediate Swedish, S-116 $600
Con versa tiona I Spanish, S-138 $400
Elementary and Intermediate Swedish, S-116 $400
Advanced Swedish, S-130 $200
Seminar 1: Film History and Criticism $260
Seminar 2: Politics and Film $260
Seminar 3: Post-War Italy, A Cultural View $260
Seminar 4: The Literature of the Immigrant Experience
in North America, an Inter-Ethnic Survey $200
Seminar 5: Greece and Rome, an Introduction $400
For information and applications
Languages, English, Film, Seminars
contact:
or write:
Mrs. Eleanor Nolan, Registrar
306 Crown St. (203) 436-4632
Summer Language Institute NJ
Box 3668 Yale Station
New Haven, CT 06620
Science and Mathematics
contact: Dr. Alvin Novick, Director
Kline Biology Tower (203) 436-1291
Yale Summer Sciences NJ
Box 2146 Yale Station

