Publication date: September 2006
Volume: 39
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Romy Drucker
- Editor-in-Chief: Adriane Quinlan
- Managing Editors: Jon'!) Dach, Helen Eckinger
- Designer: Sara Schneider
- Business Manager: Nick Handler
- Senior Editors: Mina Kimes, David Zax
- Production Manager: Nicole AJian
- Research Director: Emi!JKoh
- Web Designer: Nicholas Moryl
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Lauren Hanuon
- Staff: Tess Flizal:ldh Vao•ica


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Points of Departure
- Foreign Objects - Mina Kimes
- Model Minorities - Emily Koh
- Shots in the Dark
- Profile: The Star Gazer - Aditi Rarnakrishnan
- Fight Club - Russell Brandom
- A Spiritual Conversion - Nicole ~an
- Essay: Shifting Gears - Sophia Lear
- The Critical Angle: Final D estinations - Jon Hood & Adriaoe Quinlan
- Endnote: The Girl W ho Cried H elp!' - Margaret Mapondera


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 4**
...

**Title: Foreign Objects**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 10**

**Title: Model Minorities**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 12**
Yale struggles to define its Ethnic Counselor Program.


**Title: Shots in the Dark**
**Page number(s): 20**

**Title: Profile: The Star Gazer**
**Author: Aditi Rarnakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 22**


**Title: Fight Club**
**Author: Russell Brandom**
**Page number(s): 24**

**Title: A Spiritual Conversion**
**Author: Nicole ~an**
**Page number(s): 26**
The modernization of the Yale Divinity School.


**Title: Essay: Shifting Gears**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 34**

**Title: The Critical Angle: Final D estinations**
**Author: Jon Hood & Adriaoe Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 32**

**Title: Endnote: The Girl W ho Cried H elp!'**
**Author: Margaret Mapondera**
**Page number(s): 38**


**Title: The Brine Arts**
**Author: Elizabeth Gumport**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
The Brine Arts 
ON A WARM, BREEZY 
day in August, four 
men have come to the 
farmers' 
market in 
' 
New York City's Union 
Square to ask Rick 
Field about pickled 
okra. "Okra," Field muses, '<well, she's like 
a woman." When it comes to the art of 
pi 
· 
he informs them, "you can take 
the measure of most vegetables easily, but 
okra is unpredictable." 

Field, who graduated from Yale in 
1985, is the rnan behind Rick's Picks, a line 
of artisanal pickles that he started in his 
New York City apartment nine years ago. 
Tall and tan, the former EngJish major 
bears little resemblance to the wizened 
picklers of yore. He is at once profession-
al and slighdy disheveled, a Lost Boy who, 
upon 1} 
he had grown up, turned to 
brine instead of the botde. Field consid-
ered himself only a recreational pickler, 
tinkering with his mother's recipes on 
weekends, until 2001, when he atteuded 
the Rosendale International Pickle Festival 
in Rosendale, New York The festival, 
whose official instrument is the piccolo, 
boasts a pickle toss, a pickle · · 
contest, and a gleefully cutthroat pickling 
contest. Field's wares won six ribbons, 
including Best in Show; in 2002, his pick-
les again took the top tide, and less than 
two years later, Rick's Picks officia11y incor-
porated His Brooklyn apar 11 nent could no 
longer accot •nnodate the burgeoning pick-
le t1 npire 
a few hundred gherkins are 
nobody's ideal roommates. So Field now 
produces his pickles in upstate New York, 
but runs his business from Chrystie Street 
on the Lower East Side of ~tt:ruano...-
once the heart of the city's pickle industry. 

On Wednesdays, he ventures uptown 
to the Union Square Greenrriarket, where 
he hawks his line of nine pickle varieties to 
passersby. Today, as he offers one visitor a 
sample of his pickled okra, Field warns 
that th~ vegetable is still in ''beta-testing." 
He hopes it will eventually join the official 
Rick's Picks roster, rounding his stable out 
to an even ten. 

If there is a pickl~ avant garde, Field 
is at its forefront: he takes a mischievous, 
experitnental attitude toward the process, 
and his okra will join a family whose mem-
bers include Phat Beetz 
whose brine 
includes rosemary and allspice, 
and Bee 
'n' Beez 
bread-and-butter style pickles 
sweetened with coconut, ginger, and dried 
cherries. 

Field participates in a storied tradition. 
The Egyptians employed a technique sim-
ilar to pi 
to preserve their dead, using 
the same word to denote both embaltn-
ment and the process by which they cured 
food. Etymologically, "pickle" derives 
from the Middle Dutch noun for the brine 
in which the food was preserved To speak 
of the pickle, then, is necessarily to speak 
of its creation, and its creators. Food 
-preservationists and their ilk have always 
been a colorful crowd--consider Wi11iarn 
Buck1and, the nineteenth-centm y Oxford 
professor who served his dinner guests the 
meat of a wooly manunoth, preserved in 
ice for thousands of years 
and Field is 
no exception. His college years coincided 
with the golden age of Yale's air guitar 
scene, when he and his friends performed 
as the Rolling Stones at Berkeley's annual 
contest, where their entourage included an 
"air roadie." Namra11y, Field was Mick 
Jagger, and his stand in Union Square is an 
encore to this illusory perforr nance. The 
man is 
ps a magician: if air guitar is a 
kind of sleight of hand, then pickling is 
akin to alchemy, as Field transforms the 
diffident cucumber into the jaunty pickle. 
The averred "critical 
· g skills" 
Field acquired at Yale are on full display as 
he tends to his pickles: No nuance is left 
unexplained, no potential pairing is left 
unmentioned, and no customer is left 
behind. He even assuages hesitant vegetar-
ians; one woinan recoils after he tells· her 
that the GT 1000s (a c_uirieq_tomato pick-
le) will go well with ~urgers, and refus-
es to pick up the jar again until ~e propos-
es she pair them with cheese instead. 

Presiding over his pickles at the 
Greenmarket, Field calls out, "How's 
everyone doing today? It's hard to aq~ue 
with today." He holds court until sun-
down, telling jokes about asparagus, 
singing a song about a co~ offering Rick's 
Picks stickers to children. To speak of 
Rick's pickles, then, is to speak of their 
creator.


**Title: High Glass**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

High Glass 
'--Elizabeth Gumport 
lN A WORKSHOP ON 
the 
first 
floor of 
Sterling Chunistry La~ 
Daryl Smith is using a 
six.Up hand to~ to 
form glass tubing into a 
s 
· -order Buchner 
fimnel for a research 
facility upstairs. The 
blazing gas-and-oxygen lamp which he uses 
to shape the glass _exceeds two thousand 
degrees. While he fires one end of the glass, 
the rest of the tubing is heated by a four-
barrel Bunsen burner flan•ing electric blue. 
Smith is Yale's only full-ritne scieutific 
glassblower, the Don of glassblowing at 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


Yale. 
He's been taking the heat since 
1986, when he entered the only school in 
the country that offers full-time instruc-
tion in scientific glassblowing Salem 
Community College in New Jersey. 

According to the American Scientific 
Glassblowers Society, Smith belongs to a 
rare breed: In some states, there is only 
one glassblower. 

At Yale, he teaches Chern 565L: 
Introduction to Scientific Glassblowing, a 
class in which Yale graduate students use 
small torches to create scientific and dec-
orative wares. For many students, it feels 
more like an apprenticeship than a lab. 
''The glass is very forgiving," says Fabiola 
Barrios-Landeros, a former student. "If 
you made a mistake you just melt it again 
and start over." 

like the glass he works with, Smith is 
,/ 
sturdy -and practical. His littered desk is a 
. .,. ~ ... 
:vaY$1:JlEO!L~or orders and invoices, many 
,. 
-r 
~ 
; 
-
ftoJil rX~ professors who contact him to 
d~~J?-prototype glassware for their lab-
oratories. Smith also does glass work for 
institutions outside the University. ''What 
I like about [the work] is it takes a long 
time to get good at it," he reflects. 
"Complex stuff there's no way to . 
machine-make that," he says, pointing to 
a vacuum system that looks like a fun 
. 
house for a water droplet, more Chihuly 
than Curie. 

With expert technique, Smith blows, 
stretches, gathers, and thickens the glass 
tubing as it is held in place by a glassblow-
ing lave, which spins and supports the 
ends of the tubing, freeing up his hands 
to manipulate the torches, forceps, and 
other forming tools. '~lot of it is feel," 
he says matter-of-factly. A man used to 
· laboring with his hands, Smith performs 
the ambidextrous act of maneuvering the 
oxygen valve to raise the temperature 
of the flame and removing extra glass · 
now in a liquid state 
by wrapping its 
flow around a solid rod. ''You've got to 
read what's happening," he says as he 
peers at the flame through yellowed safe-
ty goggles. 

One hundred years ago, techniques like 
the one Smith now practices involved 
whale oil or lard and a wick attached to a 
pedal . through which air was pumped. 
Daryl Smith handles the heat as Yale} onfy full-time glassblower. 
September 2006 

While today's tools are more high-tech, 
something still feels antiquated about the 
craft, which possesses a certain mom-
and-pop feel that most trades have lost. 

"Glass is an umbrella term for a num-
ber of different materials," Smith contin-
ues. ''There are fifty thousand different 
forms of glass." With understated move-
ments, he scores and cuts a quartz glass 
rod, fills a 400 mL beaker with water, and 
places the shortened quartz rod and a pre-
cut piece of Pyrex into the flame of a 
Bunsen burner. Within seconds, the Pyrex 
grows soft and liquidous, like the bullet-
vision CGI sequence of a Matrix movie. 
The quartz, on the other hand, is white 
hot, like a glow stick at a rave. With grade-
school charm, he has demonstrated how 
melting points differentiate diverse types 
of glass, and how glass flows together to 
become a single piece . 

On the prototype glassware pieces he 
designs, he places a white decal With his 
signature. It is glass couture: An original 
Daryl Smith.


**Title: Italian Lessons**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

I tali an Lessons · 
THE MOST POPULAR 
plaza in Amelia, 
Italy surrounds Ia 
porta 
romana 
· Roman gate. Old 
men · with wrinkled 
faces are perma-
nent fixtures on its 
stone 
benches, 
where they . ~atch . and comment 
on the young teenagers, shop 
owners, and farmers who flow by 
in Fiats and on Vespas. This July, 
the elderly gentlemen sitting sen-
try encountered a few unfamiliar 
faces 
pale ones not yet tanned 
by the Mediterranean sun and 
lacking the strong features of the 
townspeople 
and 
overheard 
snippets of loud. English as fifteen 
Yale students swept into the tiny 
medieval town. 

Perched on the rocky, tree-cov-
ered hills of the Umbria region, 
Amelia's historic quarter 
il centro 
storjco 
is encased by stone walls 
that were constructed in the 
Middle Ages. From·ten p.m. until 
the early morning, its citizens per-
fect the art of seeing and being 
seen, Ia passeggiata, which involves 
walking up and down the main 
promenade, maybe stopping for a 
drink along the way. 

Coffee is 
served black, sweet, and scorch-
ing, ready three seconds after a 
request for "un 
cife~ per piacere." 
Stress 
is 
nonexistent; 
family, 
sacred; 
punctuality, 
relative. 

Discussions on any topic, from 
politics to relationships to cook-
ing, are heated, lyrical, and come 
accompanied by emphatic physical 
gestures. 

The other students and I were 
enrolled in Italian 130, an inten-
sive sumtner course for second 
year language students. 

While 
Yale offers a plethora of study-
abroad programs in major cities 
such as Paris, St. Petersburg, 
Prague, and Berlin, Amelia is 
hardly 
a 
thriving metropolis. 
Consequently, the arrival and inte-
gration of a group of American 
college students, however small, 
was 
conspicuous 
often 
ungainly. 

For at least the first week, we 
couldn't figure out how to stop 
the interminable offerings of 
pasta, veal, and wine at every meal. 
My host mother was so horrified 
by my habit of leaving the house 
with wet hair that she presented 
me with a blow drier. The family 
I stayed with was even more dis-
mayed by my obsessive punctuali-
ty, encouraging me to eat slowly, 
nap generously, and cultivate the 
art of relinquishing control. 

Our host farnilies and neigh-
·~ 
bors eased the ffansition. When a 
classmate expressed a PJl-SSion for 
,-,. 
toasted bread covered with olive 
oil, tomatoes, and garlic 
a tradi-
tional type of bruschetta · his 
family cooked the dish over and 
over again. Another student, who 
demonstrated an interest in the 
arts, was welcomed into her host 
parents' glass blowing workshop. 
One host father took his Yalie to 
his orchards, patiently showing 
her the trees he bred and cross-
pollinated as a hobby. 

In the late afternoons, my host 
sister Sonia and I returned home 
for pranzo, the huge midday meal. 
The dishes seemed soaked in deli-
cious, nutty olive oil, which came 
partially from the olives grown in 
the grove outside my bedroom 
window, which are brought to the 
frantoio, or factory, by local fami-
lies. 

The three parts of the 
olive 
flesh, oil, and seed 
are 
separated by machine, then the oil 
is filtered naturally by gravity and 
bottled. 

The slow, meticulous 
nature of the process reflects the 
attitude of ilie entire town. This 
was also how we learned Italian-
slowly, naturally. 

Over the weeks, our "field-
work" became much more impor-



**Title: A Corner of Amelia**
**Author: Tess Dearing**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.., 
tant than homework. For our group, 
this enchantingly secluded town was a 
classroom without walls, schedules, 
or blackboards. 


Although we had 
three hours of grammar instruction 
with two Yale professors every morn-
ing, our real learning environment 
was Amelia itself. 


As our class acculturated, some of 
us began co forget basic English 
words and attempted to speak to par-
ents and friends back home in Italian. 
We asked waiters and cashiers to 
avoid speaking to us in English, 
assuring them: 
"St~ si parliamo ital-
iano"-"Yes, yes we speak Italian." 


With these words, we received smiles 
and winks across counters. We 
screamed "Forza Azzlld' alongside 
the tOW!)Speople and waved Italian 
flags·"from_ the windows of cars, join-
ing tlle.;nidnight parade in celebra-
tion-of Italy's World Cup victory. By 
the end of July, we no longer felt like 
guests. 


Eventually, some of us were mis-
taken for natives. Tourists even asked 
for directions. At the sweltering 
Roma-Fiumicino airport at the end of 
my stay, I heaved my two overweight 
suitcases onto the scale. The Alitalia 
attendant asked me, "How many 
bags?" I responded, "Due." We chat-
ted in Italian, complaining about the 
heat. Italian 130 had evolved into a 
course that had no set boundaries, 
that followed us out of Italy. 


On my last morning in Amelia, 
my host parents took me to the small 
bar opposite Ia porta romano for a cap-
puccino and a pastry filled with liq-
uid chocolate. 


It was a gray day, 
heavy with parting, and our words 
were few. The old men were already 
perched at their roost, reading news-
papers and debating. 


As I shared 
their break-of-day ritual, I wondered 
how I had ever grabbed a granola bar 
for breakfast on the road. The old 
men cast curious glances at my light 
hair, my long limbs. "Odd," they 
must have thought, "not a word of 
English." 

-Tess Dearing A corner of Amerlia, Ita!J's centro storico. 
September 2006 
7 


**Title: Bulldogs in Kabul**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

• 
. . 
i 
E 
"' 
at 
c -... • 
% 
>o • 
.1:: 
~ 
'0 
! 
:;, 
0 u 
Bulldogs in Kabul 
"ANYONE 
WHO SAYS 
that disarmament is for 
the weak has never 
hauled 
old 
Soviet 
artillery down Afghan 
mountain roads." 


From a laptop in 
Afghanistan, Yale senior Whitney 
Haring-Smith describes the process 
of disarming an Afghan town nes-
tled deep in the Salang Mountains 
northwest of Kabul. The muni-
tions are left over from the 1979-89 
Soviet invasion, part of a 'five-met-
ric-ton stockpile being handed over 
by a local mujahideen commander. 


Haring-Smith is 
tagging along 
beside two technical ammunition 
experts, a representative from the 
Afghani Ministry of Defense, two 
large transport trucks, two pickups, 
ten Afghan police, and a group of 
laborers. The artillery has to be car-
ried down the mountain by hand 
before a donkey convoy could be 
assembled 
to 
transport 
the 
weapons out. 


Here, Haring-Smith finds that 
solutions to 21st century problen1s 
•· 
-.-
·-» 
- . - . -~--
.-:· 
. 
are often holdovers from the 14th 
century: Donkeys remain the most 
convenient means of transporta-
• uon . 


The week-long disarmament 
project, 
which 
Haring-Smith 
describes as his "favorite field mis-
sion," is one of several he partici-
pated in this summer as an assistant 
to Afghanistan's New Beginnings 
Programme (ANBP), a branch of 
the United Nations De:velopment 
Programme. 


So how does an American stu-
dent from an Ivy League university 
come to spend his summer dispos-
ing of military ammunition in 
Afghanistan? 


During a 
~ore mainstream 
internship at the Pentagon the pre-
vious summer, Haring-Smith first 
made contact with . ANBP staff 
members. There was no formal 
application 
the "disbandment of 
illegal armed groups" isn't your 
typical summer internship 
but 
Whitney submitted a resume and 
got the job. He is the only college 
student, 
as 
well 
the only 
American, working with the pro-
gram. The majority of his cowork-
ers are former tnilitary profession-
UtJ modern and ancient modes of transportation are used in 
8 
als 
from other countries: 
an 
Albanian munitions expert, a for-
mer member of the Bangladeshi 
Special Forces, and soldiers from 
Kosovo, Germany, the United 
Kingdom. Every team member is 
clipped 
with 
a 
National 
Associate 
an Afghan who serves 
as a translator and link to the coun-
try's local and governmental net-
works. 


Haring-Smith is expected to 
coordinate missions like this one in 
Sarang 
Mountains, 
where 
·ANBP collects serviceable ammu-
nition and hands it over to the 
Afghan military. The group per-
forms work that is vital to the long-
term stability of Afghanistan; it 
destroys faulty ammunition that 
poses a safety hazard to the local 
population. 


Haring-Smith's involvement 
comes 
crucial 
time 
in 
Afghanistan's development. The 
transition to democracy has been 
difficult 
inefficiency and corrup-
tion 
have 
eroded 
confidence 
among both Afghans and interna-
tional donors. Anti-government 
forces, such as the Taliban in the 
'IHENEWJOURNAL 


south and east and Tajiks in the 
Panjshir Valley, · are fueling the 
growth of an internal arms trade 
and breeding widespread vio-
lence and instability. 


While roads are under con-
struction throughout the coun-
try, citizens still lack basic serv-
ices like electricity and running 
water. In major cities like Kabul, 
with a population of five to six 
million, police have rolled back 
proposed reforms and over-
looked human rights violations. 


As a result, dissatisfaction is 
growing among Afghans who 
blame the lack of progress on 
corrupt officials. 


''Afghanistan is a country try-
ing to make a leap from the 
fourteenth century to the twen-
ty-first century in only a few 
decades," writes Haring-Smith 
in an e-mail. He cites a local 
warlord who occupies a · cen-
turies-old role similar to that of 
the feudal lords of Medieval 
Europe. "Only now," Hating-
Smith says, "he's reachable by 
satellite phone." 


Overall, Hating-Smith sums 
up his experience in Afghanistan 
as "excellent." The Political 
Science major especially appre-
ciated 
how 
experience 
"made some of the costs of the 
Iraq war much more real." Such 
lessons aren't learned in a class-
room. 


''Afghanistan will get worse 
before it gets better," Hating-
Smith wrote in late August. 


"I remember once talking with 
a warlord 
there. 
He asked 
where I was going after I 
left Afghanistan. 
I told him 
that I was going to the United -
States, and he responded, 'take 
me with you."' 

-Nick Handler 
:READINGS-
WITH CHOIR 
5.00 PM EVERY SUNDAY IN ACADEMIC T 
DWIGHT C 
EL (OLD C 
PUS) 
9 



**Title: Yale in Seoul**
**Author: Mina Kime**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On the patio of a cafe in a 
crowded Seoul shopping district, two teenage girls sip coffee and take turns nibbling on a wedge 
of green tea cake. One is dressed for 
school in a pleated navy skirt, crisp 
oxford, vest, and tie. The other, whose 
bangs sweep across her forehead in a 
trendy blunt cut, has thrown an oversized t-shirt over her uniform. In block 
letters, the shirt declares: ''YALE 
ROWING." 


Over six thousand miles from New 
Haven, Korean teenagers and nostalgic 
Eli expatriates can purchase Bulldog 
paraphernalia from an unlikely source: 
E-Land, a self-described "Harvard & 
Yale Campus Shop" with four locations 
in Seoul and dozens more throughout 
Asia. The franchise claims to be the 
only store in Korea to hold official 
rights to the University name, which it 
brandishes on t-shirts, blazers, sweaters, 
and even knock-off Chuck Taylors with 
a ubiquity that presupposes familiarity. 


Most Koreans, however, have never 
seen more than the name itself. Jong Pil 
Kim, an E-land employee, attempts to 
explain the University's popularity in a 
country that sends only a handful of 
promising youths to Old Campus each 
year. "Personally, I have never met anyone who goes to Yale," he admits, 
adjusting his "Richard" nametag and 
running his fingers through his spiky 
black hair. 


"But everyone in Seoul 
knows that Harvard and Yale are the 
top two schools. If you don't know that, 
you're crazy." 


He hops down from the store counter and points at the ceiling, where the 
pennants of American colleges spiral 
outwards 
in 
a 
nautilus 
pattern. 
"Originally, E-Land wanted all eight Ivy 
League schools. I believe they were only 
able to get the rights to Harvard, Yale, 
Princeton, and .... " 


He pauses for a 
moment, sneaking a glance at the forest 
green pennant hanging limply over his 
head. "Dartmouth." 


Throughout the shop, circular racks 
brim with pleated white mini skirts, 
oxford button downs, and distressed 
jeans, all stamped with university names 
and crests. It's Abercrombie & Fitch 
meets the Yale Bookstore, filtered 
through the lens of a Korean tourist. 


It's also incredibly popular; at least a 
dozen packs of giggling schoolgirls file 
through E-Land's doors in the course of 
an hour, contributing to the franchise's 
$13.3 million in annual revenue. 


Despite the variety promised by the 
whorl of pennants, nearly half of the 
inventory 
is 
devoted 
to 
Yale. 
Mannequins whittled to smaller proportions than their Western counterparts 
pose in T-shirts advertising a variety of 
nonexistent organizations—has anyone 
heard of the ''Yale Yacht Club?" Prices 
seem to correspond to both quality and 
authenticity: 
A 
baby 
blue 
''Yale 
Camping Vermont tee costs a mere ten 
thousand won (approximately nine U.S. 
dollars), while a seersucker blazer 
embroidered with a near-perfect representation of the navy college crest 
retails for about sixty bucks. 


But does near perfection signify legitimacy? Donald Filer, Yale's Associate 
Secretary and trademark licensing coordinator, attests to E-Land's "official" 
status. "The University owns the Yale 
trademark, which we license in areas 
other than education, like apparel," he 
says. "We've registered it both in the 
U.S. and internationally, at stores such as 
E-Land." Such an arrangement brings 
in revenue to Yale without damaging the 
University's identity as a brand. 


Yale works with three foreign licensing agents—middlemen in Korea, 
Japan, and Italy—"to ensure that the 
university's reputation is protected," 
says Filer. As a result, Yale whiskey and 
Yale machine guns probably won't be 
coming to stores near you. "We're careful to ensure that people don't put the 
name on whatever they want," he says. 
"Companies have to send us images, or 
samples of what they sell ... the office 
tends 
get 
overrun 
with 
them sometimes." 


But E-Land isn't simply selling apparel and accessories—it's selling a simulacrum of the university itself. For customers who have never seen the college, 
sailing, rowing, and jazz t-shirts, there 
are numerous faux-antique curios that 
contribute to the vintage atmosphere. 


Dark blue sconces jut out from the 
walls, casting a dim light on miscellany 
like an old-fashioned radio, a bust of 
John Harvard, and a framed Lux et 
Veritas crest. A weather-beaten leather 
armchair sags beside shelves lined with 
imported books—random encyclopedias, a ragged copy of a novel titled 
Freshman 
Quarterback—all 
beneath 
photographs of Harkness Tower and 
Harvard Square. 


As Jong Pil assists a shopper with 
a necktie, a petite female coworker 
with an "Olivia" nametag mans the 
counter. "My name is Judy," she says. 
In her midriff-baring, red-and-white-
checked oxford and denim miniskirt, 
she could be mistaken for the lead in a 
Korean production of "America: The 
Musical." In her actual role as shop-
girl, she embodies the inaccuracy of 
E-Land's representation. 


The employees say it isn't about contrivance or seamlessness; the stores are less a depiction of Yale than a construction of advertisements. The store's distorted portrayal is the last 
word on Yale. And while the contrivance of phony student groups seems 
harmless, the depiction of phony students in the store's sepia-toned advertisements is more disturbing: Nearly 
all of the models are blonde and 
white. Last year, 12% of Yale's incoming freshmen were Asian American; in 
E-Land's version of the university, a 
Korean teenager would be a racial 
anomaly. 


The homogeneous student body 
isn't the only anachronism perpetuated 
by Seoul's "Harvard & Yale Campus 
Shop." In addition to the countless 


Jong Pil Kim stands before a display of "Yale" merchandise.


the store's distorted portrayal is the last 






**Title: The Ethnic Counselor Program at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
pro 
er 2006 
erlvy 
ceton have 
toward 
• 
d 1n 
ncan 
as 
anent 
affairs." 
Yale's 
tltuuqns, 
the 
other mentoring 
• 1n 
which 
generally 
Counselor Program has 
are 
t1c1sm, reststance, 
some cases, total indif-
or 
,_.. .... ority student regards his 
,.~_,._._tly and~ in turn~ respo~" 
elor Program in 
a 


manner. All students agree on only 
one thing about the program: that 
it is very vaguely defined. 

Not surprisingly, the University 
is in the process of re-evaluating 
the program's perceived inconsis-
tencies and redefining its purpose. 
In August 2005, Dean George 
Levesque assumed the title of 
Dean of Freshman Affairs, a 
newly-created 
position 
that 
requires him to review many of the 
College's 
freshman 
programs. 
Though he has spent a great deal of 
time 
evaluating 
Ethnic 
Counselors Program, he has yet to 
address the concerns of those who 
.. . . 
. 
CtltlClZe lt. 

The University's ambiguous 
description is ·unlikely to help him. 
One University website attempts to 
spell out the program's purpose: 
"Although the problems of all incoming 
freshmen are in most respects similar, 
those of minority students can nonethe-
less be different if various acculturation 
pressures accomparry their ac!Justment at 
Yale. Such a rystem of counseling pro-
vides minority freshmen with · a gr~up of 
counselors JJ!ho have coped successjui!J 
with similar difftcultif!S." · 

But the literature does not artic-
ulate any of the ''similar 'difficul-
·"· ' 
ties" successfully coped · with by 
minorities. The description is delib-
erately vague; it makes no specific 
comment on the experience of 
minorities at Yale. It intends to 
expand, rather than narrow, the 
counselor's responsibilities. In the 
process, it fails to . justify the need 
for 
program. 
Levesque 
acknowledges this problem and 
believes the University should 
reconsider how it presents the pro-
gram to its students. "We have 
often put our ethnic counselors in 
a very ambiguous and difficult 
position," he says, "and I think we 
as an institution need to do [a] bet-
ter job of defining and describing 
the program." 

If Yale administrators have 
trouble articulating the role of the . 
Ethnic Counselor Program, it's 
easy to understand how a freshman 
might fail to grasp its purpose. 
Mona Elsayed, now a Junior in 
Jonathan 
Edwards 
College, 
checked the box marked "Other" 
when her Yale application asked 
her to select the ethnicity she 
strongly 
identified 
with 
most 
~. . _., ... 


strongly. 

She does not remember explic-
itly mentioning her Egyptian back-
ground anywhere on her applica-
tion and was surprised to learn that 
she'd been assigned an Ethnic 
Counselor. 

"I was impressed that so much 
investigation had been done to dis-
cover I was not white," she wryly 
notes. "Nobody really explained to 
me what the point of it is." 

Elsayed is a first-generation 
American with two Egyptian par-
ents, but her heritage did not great-
ly influence her upbringing. she 
checked "Other" because it best 
described her ethnicity, not because 
she considered her Egyptian her-
itage particularly relevant to her 
identity. She didn't go so far as to 
fill in the line next to the box that 
asked her to specify her ethnic 
group; "Other" suited her fine. 

Jade Pagkas-Bather, who served 
as an Ethnic Counselor last year, 
felt differently when she marked 
the box on her application. She is 
part Jamaican, part Greek, and, 
unlike Elsayed, sees her race as a 
defining aspect of her identity. On 
the Facebook.com, ~agkas-Bather 
is a member of groups such as 
"First Generation-ers," ''SMHAC: 
Students of Mixed Heritage and 
Culture,'' and "The Mulatto Army." 

When Yale asked her to identify 
with a specific ethnic group, the 
box she checked meant something 
to her. She had positive experiences 
with her residential and ethnic 
counselors as a freshman, motivat-
September 2006 
, . ... 


ale institued the E thnic 
Counselors 
Program 
in 
1972, thirty-four years after 
the inception of the residential 
counselor position. At the tim e, the 
campus was feeling the reverbera-
tions o f the Vietnam ·w ar and the 
nzc counse or 
nee eJCtra 
e ? 
azrs 
Civil Rights Movement; Yale had 
recently gone co-ed and New 
Haven politics were immersed in 
the trial of Black Panthers Bobby 
Seale and Ericka Huggins. 

The Yale Dai/y News followed 
these mounting tensions in a series 
of 1972 articles: "Law Applicants 
for Minorities Fall" (February 17, 
1972), "Study Finds Broad Gap in 
15 



**Title: The Ethnic Counselor Program at Yale**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
• 
Cultural houses are a gathering place for freshmen. 
Minority Enrollment" (April 10, 
1972), "Law School 
Conuoittee 
Studies Discrimination" (November 
17, 1972), ccDisgruntled Black DJ's 
Refuse to Broadcast" (February 15, 
1972). 
Students were concerned that 
Yale was not doing its part to 
attract minority applicants. An 
April 12, 1972 YDN editorial 
expressed an undergraduate belief 
that minority recruitment should 
be the University's top priority. "It 
is not merely enough to accept 
minority students," it read. "The 
University community must make 
every effort to [ e] nsure that these 
students find Yale a rewarding and 
fulfilling place." 

One stride toward self- improve-
ment was spearheaded by Yale 
President 
Kingman 
Brewster. 
Brewster commissioned a commit-
tee to collect information from 
alumni, faculty, and students and 
use it to produce "broad recom-
mendations concerning the future 
of Yale College over the next 20 
years." Because of the charged 
atmosphere, it was clear that these 
recommendations would address 
issues of race. The committee's 
findings spurred the creation of 
the Ethnic Counselor Program. 
The University modeled the eth-
nic counselors after the residential 
freshman counselors, but the two 
types of advisors are ultimately 
chosen by two distinct groups: 
College deans select the residential 
counselors, while the deans of 
Yale's four Cultural Centers choose 
12 rising seniors to be ethnic coun-
selors, pairing each with a residen-
tial college that is not necessarily 
their own. Ethnic counselors have 
two roles: to counsel all minority 
students in their assigned college 
and to assist freshmen who have 
checked a box deemed similar to 
their own. For example, all fresh-
men 
who 
identify 
as 
"Asian 
American or Asian, incl. Indian 
... 
Subcontinent" are divided between 
the ethnic counselors selected by 
the 
Asian 
American 
Cultural 
Center. 
Because a student's ethnic iden-
tity can't be reduced to a checked 
box, _the current systetn tnisplaces 
many freshmen. Elsayed ended up 
with two ethnic counselors during 
her freshman year. Her first coun-


---

selor sent her a flurry of emails 
about various events and study 
breaks, but Elsayed was uninterest-
ed, replying that she wished to 
remain uninvolved. In response, 
the University transferred Elsayed 
to a different counselor whose eth-
nicity was more similar to her 
own 
her first was an African-
American female, the second an 
Arab male. 

The switch brought Elsayed no 
closer to her second counselor or 
to the program. She wondered why 
the ·University would think she 
would better connect to someone 
of her own race. 

"[M]any students find their eth-
nic counselor extremely valuable, 
but others find the program redun-
dant," admits Dean Levesque. 
"Some freshmen resent that they 
were assigned an ethnic counselor 
without requesting one. 'Why does 
Yale think I need extra help? Is 
something wrong with me?"' 

Elsayed thinks similarly. "Why 
would I want to be friends with you 
on the basis of not being white?" 
After three years at Yale, she has 
amassed 
a 
diverse 
group of 
friends-one of the goals of a uni-
versity that stresses a diverse stu-
dent body. "I don't need to congre-
gate with other people who aren't 
white 
for 
stability," 
she says. 



Elsayed believes that the Ethnic 
Counselors Program shields._ stu-
dents from the social challenges 
that arise from living in a mixed 
campus environment rather than 
encouraging them to confront such 
challenges. "Isn't the point of 
diversity that you have to be on 
your own and defend your back-
ground?" she says. "It's a very for-
eign concept to me that you need 
to be with your kind." 

Still, other minority students 
may draw comfort from hanging 
out with students who share their 
ethnicity. When Pagkas-Bather was 
a freshman, the University was 
embroiled in the debate over affir-
mative action. Demonstrations and 
editorials against the admissions 
policy created a tense environment 
for some minority students, and 
thus Pagkas-Bather appreciated the 
support of her ethnic counselors. 

While Pagkas-Bather recalls 
handling several problems related 
to race during her tenure as an eth-
nic counselor, she emphasizes that 
the program should not be sirnpli-
fied to a "racial crisis center." 
"Thankfully, students don't assume 
that ethnic counselors can only talk 
about race and ethnicity" she says. 
Many of her discussions with 
freshmen weren't overtly related to 
race issues; the connection was 
more often irnplicit, like a subtly 
charged incident Pagkas-Bather 
recalls from her freshman year 
when she was asked by classmates 
if she could braid their hair. 

Last year, William Mao was 
Trumbull's 
ethnic 
counselor. 
"Though our title may suggest oth-
erwise and often pigeon...:hole us," 
he wrote in an ·e-mail, "we . ECs 
dealt with many of the same issues 
as residential counselors. But at the 
same tlme, some 1ssues may con-
tain a cultural or racial under-
tone/ dimension that [we] may be 
more sensitive to or more readily 
able to .see." 



counselor is part and parcel of 
everything we do," he says. "In my 
eyes, [that counselor] is indistin-
guishable from the others." 

But if an Ethnic Counselor is 
indistinguishable from a residential 
counselor, why bother with two 
separate labels? 

In his review of the program, 
Dean Levesque hasn't found a sim-
ple answer. He has discovered a 
"wide variety in the experiences 
that students have had with their 
ethnic counselor. . . The University 
wants to convey that two friends 
are better than one, he says, "but 
that is difficult to get across to 
freshmen." 

Overall, -the Ethnic Co.unselor 
Program attempts to be too many 
things to too many groups. For 
a minority 
student who regards 
his ethnicity as an integral part 
of 
his 
identity, 
program 
offers a social lifeline. For one 
who gives little attention to his 
ethnic background, the program 
is at best redundant, at worst 
belittling. 

Although ethnic counselors are 
trained to counsel all members of 
the freshman class, the false belief 
that they cater only to minority 
freshmen persists. "[We] won't 
deny someone help because they 
aren't of our race [or] ethnicity," 
says Pagkas-Bather. 

Some students conclude that 
because the primary responsibility 
of ethnic counselors is to serve 
only a segment of freshmen, their 
role and influence is less significant 
than that of residential counselors. 
Branford College Dean Thomas 
McDow speaks against this con-
ception. In Branford, "the ethnic 

The program alters its function 
for every student in the freshman 
class. While these altered roles may 
not be too complicated for one 
counselor to carry out, the subtle 
differences between them can be 
confusing to new students. 

McDow says it's about "striking 
the right tone." In order to appeal 
to various segments within the 
freshman 
class, 
Ethnic 
Counselor Program must empha-
size different aspects of the pro-
gram 
to 
different 
students. 
Unfortunately, when you strike a 
different note to appeal to every 
group on campus, the chord you 
strike is dissonant. 

Emi!J Koh7 
a Junior in Jonathan 
Edwards College, is Research Director of 
TNJ. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
"Money, it's a gas. 
Grab that cash with 
both hands and 
make a stash" ... 
For 
Manage a profitable 
publishing business 
Assist our accountant 
Handle Advertising 
Accounts 
Direct financial matters 
No EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. JUST 
A PASSION FOR MAGAZINES, 
BUSINESS, OR BOTH. 
As always, The New Journal 
loves you. 
Contact: 
.edu 
September 2006 
Featuring the 
eye wear at 
Voted Advocates 
Best New Haven Eye Doctor 
and Best Eye 
· 
• comprehensive eye exams 
• contact lenses 
• fashion eye wear 
• • 
selection o 
lowest prices. 
19


**Page number(s): 20**

-~···-~---
_, 
--~- -- ··· 


**Page number(s): 21**

I 
•, 
' ' 
' 



**A Ninety-Nine-Year-Old Astronomer**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
' 
er finger guides me first, then 
her voice. She points to a neb-
ulous white cloud, then traces 
the dotted patterns of light that spiral 
out from it. I follow her voice on this 
journey through young, old, pulsing, and 
dying stars until her finger comes to rest 
upon the darkness at the photograph's 
edge. ''This is a photographic plate of a 
supernova," she says in a tremulous 
. 
voice. Her gnarled hands circle around 
one another as she describes the phases 
of a star. "Like people, stars age and 
change," she says. They are born, glo~ 
and then fade; some wither away, 
some explode into new forma-
• nons. 

My guide, Dorrit Hoffleit, is a ninety-
nine-year old senior research astronomer 
emeritus at Yale, who specializes in the 
study of variable stars whose brightness 
fluctuates over time: ·seconds, minutes, 
months, even years. Once the fundamen-
tal nature of these stars is understood, 
theorists can investigate how and why 
they behave the way they do. To search 
for patterns, she uses photographic 
plates. · 
This, the study of stars' 
positions and motions, is 
termed '~stronometry." 
It brought her to Yale in 
19 56 and keeps her here 
today. Though she officially 
retired in 1975, Hoffleit has walked 
across the parking lot between her 
aparttnent and ·her office in the Gibbs 
Physics building almost every day for the 
past thirty-one years. During the past 
seven or eight decades, she has written 
over three hundred articles and con-
tinues 
to 
conduct 
research; 
''Working keeps me alive," she says. 
Because of a recent fall, she has not 
been to her office for a few months. 
Instead, she works in her cramped and 
cozy apartment. Piles of papers rise 
from the table tops, building in white 
waves around the sitting room. 

"Some piles need to go in the 
Yale archives," she says, ''but most 
should be thrown away." 
On top of one pile lies a 

lS 
thick, blue book: The Yale Catalogue of 
Bright Stars, by Dorrit Hoffleit, Ph.D. 
Now referred to as "The Bright Star 
Catalogue," it is one of the most widely 
consulted astronomy catalogues; a com-
pendium of the names, positions, paral-
laxes, luminosities, colors, and other 
characteristics of more than nine thou-
sand stars, all visible to the naked eye. 
Her other works, including Astronomy at 
Yale, 1701-1968, quietly line the book-
shelves in her sitting room. There is nei-
ther a computer nor a television in the 
aparttnent. Hoffleit listens to the news 
over a sma11 radio on her kitchen table. 
Most scientists can't work without a 
computer, but she explains that her pres-
ent work 
researching the history of 
astronomy and ''looking 
· 
up gener-
ally because somebody wants some-
thing" 
doesn't require one. Books and 
catalogues are all that she needs. 
Hoffleit leans on her bamboo cane, 
to get up for a few seconds, 
then walks slowly f~ a few steps to pick 
up a large photo album. 
One picture shows her as a serious 
twenty-one-year old in cap and gown at 
her college graduation. ''I wanted to con-
centrate in math and the fine arts," says·· 
Hoffleit, who earned a degree in mathe-
matics from Radcliffe College in 1928, 
''but [the Radcliffe administration] would 
not let me. I thought, 'better chance of 
survival in math than in the fine arts!"' 
Hoffleit still indulges her interest in the


THE NEW JOURNAL 

**The Yale Debate Association**
**Author: Russell Brandom**
**Page number(s): 24**

he prize for top speaker at the 
Princeton debate tournament is 
a bronze statue of ·a tiger. It is 
two feet long, posed in mid-growl 
or 
possibly mid-bite. Its shoulders are 
enlarged and the overall musculature is 
quite striking.· Weighing in at more than 15 
pounds, this is a tiger who has spent time 
at the gym. It seems more like a work of 
art than a trophy, but for a fmger-sized 
brass plate at its base ·that reads: "Top 
Speaker, Princeton, 2006." It is one of .the 
most coveted trophies for Yale debaters. 
Although .those who compete for these 
trophies aren't usually covered in campus 
publications, the Yale Debate Association 
has dominated the lives of its members 
for almost a century. Each week in debate 
tournaments at schools across the coun-
try, speakers pair off into teams, the teams 
debate, the best progress to playoffs, and 
one team is named winner. There are 
annual awards, weekly rankings, and con-
tinually updated statistics 
all funded 
through a private endowment. The YDA 
is one of the most elite, competitive 
groups on campus 
so why isn't it more 
reputed? 

Ariel Schneller, the most recent recipi-
ent of the tiger, has been a member of the 
YDA since his freshman year. A philoso-
phy major, Schneller's principal hobby 
other than debate is on1ioe poker, and it is 
not unusual for him to gamble with 
upwards of ten thousand dollars in a sin-
gle siu ing. The tiger, however, is worth 
almost as much to him as the thousands 
he gambles: Schneller keeps the bronze 
beast atop a bookshelf in his bedroom, 
where he sees it every day. "It brought me 
luck," he says. "I won at Stanford the next 
week." 

He is one of the less committed 
debaters on the Yale team, having attend-
ed only six . tournaments last year. Other 
members of the team's upper tier attend 
more than 15 tournaments anually and 
spend more than half their weekends 
debating at schools~ The weekly grind of 
tournaments 
sleeping on couches, driv-
ing several hours each way 
is what the 
debate team does. Most Yalies would 
News doesn't scout prospective copy-edi-
tors 
but it's much less obvious to high 
school debaters. "When you have a strong 
team, people tend to self-select," says 
Dean of Admissions Jeffrey Brezlin, "but 
I wouldn't say we privilege debaters, and 
we don't recruit them." 

Like every other student organization, 
the Yale Debate Association begins 
recruiting in September. Its intensive 
ost 
alies woul cnnge 
a ew weekends to an extracurn·c-
ular activi , but or committed ebaters this is 
'""' 
ar-
tzes, an marks o 
am e . 
cringe at the thought of losing even a few 
weekends to an extracurricular activity, 
but for committed debaters this is an 
entire social world, with its own lingo, 
parties, and marks of fame. 
ollege debate has undeniable 
appeal. 
Debate 
is 
popular 
among high schoolers eager to 
build up their resumes, confident that the 
experience will translate into an accept-
ance letter from their school of choice. 
The Yale Debate Association website 
earnestly protests that it does not have 
any sway with admissions officers, and 
states that the Association cannot recruit 
debaters before they are admitted. This 
seems obvious 
after all, The Yale Daify 
process, however, is more like that of the 
lacrosse team than the chess club. Last 
year, eighty freshmen tried out. Twelve 
made it. The two-day process is a cross 
between a play audition. and the LSATs, 
with performed an written portions. 
The lucky few who make it through 
tryouts often find the stress of competi-
tion equally challenging. There are special 
tournament awards for "novices" (debate 
lingo for freshmen), but the level of com-·· 
petition is much tougher than it was in 
high school, and inexperience hinders 
most from winning other prizes. u sua11y 
only a third of debaters persist after their 
first year. "The thing to remember," says 
Schneller, "is that you're having freshmen 
sacrifice formative weekends at Yale to 



**Title: The Debate Team**
**Author: Russell Brandom**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
sleep on couches and do poorly at 
debate." 

In its own tight-knit world, great 
debaters are recognized. They can easily 
become · famous 
or at least, famous 
among the right hundred people. At a 
recent tournament, teams discussed a 
cocky, ursine debater from William and 
Mary the way movie buffs discuss Harvey 
Weinstein. Another debate alumnus 
became gossip-worthy when he started to 
clerk for the New York Court of Appeals. 
The skills they hone in debate make 
them better speakers, better leaders. 
Because the subculture is large enough, 
outside recognition is less significant than 
inside glory. Many judges and politicians 
are former debaters and belong to a net-
work that rivals Skull and Bones, so it's 
easy to understand why high school 
champs expect a little pull with the admis-
sions departruent. The tournaments may 
only matter to other debaters, but many 
participants will remain in the debate cir-
cuit for the rest of their lives. 

And why would they leave? Outside of 
debate 
culture, 
Schneller's tiger is 
markedly less impressive. If people 
haven't heard about the APDA National 
Championships, they're unlikely to be 
impressed with a ftfth place finish. Few 
outsiders understand how mentally rigor-
ous debate is. Even at the tournaments, 
debaters tend to arrive and leave unno-
ticed by the rest of the Caf!lpus. 
typical debate trip leaves Friday 
afternoon and returns 
late 
Saturday night, leaving Friday 
night open for inter-collegiate revelry. 
These are, after all, college students. 
Many debaters show up for the next 
morning's fourth round in less than per-
fect shape. "It's impossible to win fourth 
round," says Ariel, "because you're usual-
ly up against someone who slept more 
and drank less." A team can usua11y lose 
one of the five preliminary rounds and 
still make it into the bracket, so many 
debaters simply factor in a fourth round 
loss from the outset 
small price to pay 
for a raucous night. 

After sleeping just six hours on the 
floor of last night's party at an MIT tour-
nament, few Yale debaters are ready for a 
9 a.m. car ride. One debater is curled up 
in a blanket on the floor 
his teammates 
September 2006 
• 
... N 
Ql 
)( 
..... 
-; 
z 
c... 
The entire debate team revels at Mory s after a semester of tournaments. 
find him after the party's hosts had 
already left. Also abandoned at the suite is 
a portly kid in an oversized cowboy hat. 
No one knows who he is. He rides with 
them in the car back to the tournament. 
Back at the main building, it is difficult 
to tell who is hung-over and who is not. 
Men wear ties; women wear skirts. 
Debaters sip coffee and pass around legal 
pads and laptops. Garbage bags and lug-
gage are flung over the chairs. Almost 
everyone is explaining something to the 
person next to them. At any given 
moment, people tick off points on their 
fingers, in true debater style. The group 
from the party, still half asleep, slowly 
~ 
take their seats. 

Lena, a Brandeis debater, describes the 
room's occupants: "Of the people who 
come to the party, half of them get drunk 
enough that they're uncomfortable fourth 
round. Of them, some percentage are still 
drunk for fourth round. And others are 
about to start drinking." After the fourth 
round, most teams know whether they'll 
make it into the elimination rounds. If 
they know they won't, they are stuck in an 
auditorium with no other amusements, 
leading some to pop open beers or dis-
creetly sip from flasks. A man walks up 
the aisle in a Santa Claus hat, ca11ing out 
for whoever paid for a handle of Black 
Label. After a moment, he finds him. 

While the drinking seldom gets out of 
hand at debate functions, it explains why 
most participants don't view tourna.f!lents 
as hampering their social lives. This is the 
party they want to go to, these are the 
people they want to see 
the same peo-
ple they saw last week and the week 
before. Most debaters don't come for the 
trophies 
many throw theirs away. The 
ones that end up being kept are the 
bowls, goblets, and plates that you can 
drink from or eat off of. In the past, the 
Yale Tournament has given out Xboxes 
and iPods, and at the last tournament they 
gave out margarita pitchers 
useful for 
the next tournament's Friday night 
merry-making. 

But if most debaters keep coming 
back to see their friends, there are still 
those, like Ariel, who are in it for the 
glory. Debate, like many sports, can simu-
late war, and many of its practitioners 
approach it with their own sort of 
bloodlust. 

"I just really like beating people at 
things," Ariel says, explaining the draw of 
debate. '~d it's not just some random 
thing. It's like in poker. When I win, I 
won because I was smarter than they 
were, and I get recognized for that. 
People who are really good get to be real-
ly well known." 

Well known, at least, among a 
select few. 
T\JJ 
Russell Brandom is a Senior in Ezra Stiles 
College. 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 27**

> 
' 
; < 
ts aren 
never 
Thaes 
" 
Sewanee University> where she avoided all 
gious groups and instead ~tivateo ~'extte~ely 
left-leaning politics~'"' But after graduation.,. 
Anschutz, the daughter of an Episcopal nunis: 
ter, reclaitned her 
roots. In 1998~ she 
moved to New Haven 
entolled at Yale 
Divinity School, eventually 
an associ-
ate dean of an Episcopal enclave within the 
school. Unbeknownst to her, the school was 
undergoing a conscious transition. It was 
Z7 



**Title: The Yale Divinity School: A Haven of Tradition in a Changing World**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
•• 
. . 
emerging from the skeptical outlook 
of the 2oth century, and trying to 
maintain 
its liberal reputation while 
· shifting to accomnlodat9e a burgeon-
ing Christian Right. 


Today's Yale Divinity School spon-
sors new initiatives such as the Yale 
' 
. 
Center for Faith and Culture, which 
tackles the issue of religion in ·contem-
porary society. The Center hosts con-
ferences, lectures, and workshops that 
address faith in the workplace, moral 
. leadership, and reconciliation between 
· Christians and Muslims. 


Such programs contradict the orig-
inal dogtna of the Divinity School, 
which branched off from the College 
in 1822 and occupied the current loca-
tion of Calhoun College. 


ow the Divinity School that sits 
at 409 Prospect Street 
far 
from the center of campus 
is 
one of five non-denominational divinity 
schools associated with American uni-
versities. 
Harvard, 
Wak~ Forest, 
Vanderbilt, . and the University of 
Chicago are home to the other four. 
Yale and Harvard's divinity schools, the 
most well-known of the bunch, could 
not be more different: Harvard focuses 
on comparative and world religions, 
while Yale values the academic explo'-
. ration of Christian history and theology. 


Harvard and Yale both began as 
schools of Christian study. In the early 
19th century, Boston was hit full force 
by the Enlightemnent. Science, reason, 
and secularity reshaped the Hat vard 
Divinity 
School. 


Enlightenment ideals trickled down the 
American coast, their impact. was . far · 
less revolutionary once they reached 
smaller port towns like New Haven, 
Connecticut. Yale escaped the make-
over and clung to its traditional roots. 


In the 1970s, the two schools again 
parted ways. Harvard Divinity School 
underwent 
significant 
curriculum 
reform and developed into a center for 
the study of comparative and world 
religions. Yale Divinity School warded 
off the new trends and retained its 
Christian focus. 


!though many 21st century 
Yale undergraduates pass the 
school while jogging up· 
Prospect Street or hear of it in 
Religious Studies· seminars, the Div 
School is much less well-known than 
the Law, Business, and Medical 
Schools. Years after President Richard 
Levin assumed his current role, he told 
Harold Attridge, Dean of Yale Divinity 
School, that he barely knew the school 
existed ~t the start of his presidency. 


The separation between the College 
and the Divinity School began in 1963, 
when Yale established an undergradu-
ate Department of Religious Studies. 
Today, religion classes are split between 
the Div School and the Religious 
Studies Departtnent, and both under-
graduate and graduate students take 
classes at both schools. Each prograrn 
offers different degrees: Ph.D.'s are 
earned through the Religious Studies 
Depat unent, Masters through the Div 


The_se gaps, along with the dis- · . 
tance between. the two canipuse·s~ are 
symptoms of a larger issue: How. to 
· practice and study religion in. an aca-
demic world that is . increasingly 
uncomfortable with public displays 
of faith. 


efore 1993, Levin's unfamil-
iarity with the Divinity School 
was not unique. Its campus, 
hardly a source of pride for the 
University, 
did not grace 
many 
brochures. Yale's 
· 
-year deferred ' 
maintenance policy left the Divinity 
School in sharnmbles. Anschutz recalls 
sitting in class and watching asbestos . 
tiles fall from the ceiling. 


But it wasn't only the facilities t4at 
were suffering. The Divinity School's . 
adrnission rate was embarrassingly high 
by Yale standards, the result of a 
nationwide drop in applications follow-
ing the Vietnam War. Though graduate · 
schools of all sorts experienced a spike 
in draft-dodger applicants during the 
war, afterwards a burgeoning national 
skepticism towards an 
· g organ-
ized 
religion included 
contributed 
to a long dry spell for the Church. In 
1994, Levin, hoping to reverse such a 
trend in Yale's professional schools, 
ordered the Divinity School to conduct 
a self-study. 


This evaluation revealed the obvi-
o~s: The dilapidated buildings were in 
. dire need of renovation. ·Relocation 
closer to the rest of carnpus was dis-
cussed, and though the idea was never · · 
executed, yale's gesture signaled a vote 
of confidence in the Div School's 
potential. 


Forty-nine million dollars later, a 
freshly renovated Yale Divinity·School 
-
witnessed a drop in its admissions rate. 
It now admits forty percent of appli-
cants 
a low percentage compared to 
similar institutions, especially given the 
relatively small pool of applicants. 
According to Anschutz, that nntnber 
represents a "better and brighter" 
student body. 


he Divinity School's politics 
have never been old-fash-
ioned. ''It's [a] bastion of pro-
gressive Protestant liberalistn,'~ says 
Betsy Anderson, another graduate. ''It 
just takes a while for it to catch up with 
the rest of the University." This transi-
tion is in action right now, as evidenced 
by shifting student demographics. 


"The Div School is in process 
it has 
changed, it is changing;' she explains. 
September 2006 


When she first set foot on campus in 
1994, at the age of 46, she found her-
self joining an older, predotninantly 
white student body. By 2005, however, 
44 percent of students were tninorities; 
58 percent of students in 2003 were 
under 
. Today, Anschutz describes 
the average student as twenty-seven 
years old and "just sorting things out'--
we're a real combination of sorts." 


The diversification of the Divinity 
School's student body has allowed a 
new voice to emerge: that of conserva-
tive Christians. The growing right-wing 
Christian population in the U.S. has 
penetrated the liberal fortress of Yale 
School, 
and 
Maryetta 
Anschutz, a self-described "progressive 
liberal," couldn't be happier about it. 


''The conservatives at Yale have 
incredibly thoughtful, thought-out 
positions," she explains. ''You can't 
hate 'em." Fundamentalist, evangelical 
Christians are attracted .to Yale for the 
same reasons as their liberal classmates: 
They want to be challenged so .that 
they can argue with greater conviction. 


Despite their shifting demographics, 
one thing about Div School students 
remains the same: They want the foun-
dation of a Yale education. 


"Yale education" has special 
nieaning at Yale Divinity 
School. The School differen-
tiates itself from its peers by focusing 
its course of study not on real-world 
training but on a strong theological artd 
historical background. 


Anschutz unreservedly expresses 
her faith in this approach. "The focus 
on oppression, prejudice, all that stuff 
you find at Hat vard and other places;-
" (She lowers her voice.) ''It's a· lot of 
hocus-pocus." 


These 
days, 
she 
explains, a·nyone who enters the pro-
fessional Christian world desperately 
needs "academic clout." 


As its chapel indicates} the Yale Divity School has retained its Christian focus. 


Perhaps in an era of stadium-sized 
churches and televised sermons, it is ~ 
yearning for yellowed pages and layers 
of dust that draws young Christians to 
Yale Divinity's traditional Georgian 
quadrangle. But the academic orienta-
tion of Yale's Div School doesn't mean 
that its students enter the real world as 
naive bookworms. As with the Yale 
Law School, theory is privileged over 
practice with the vision ·of a thorough 
grounding in theory as the best prepa-
ration for informed practice. 


With this in mind, Div School stu-
dents are broadening their goals upon 
graduation. One growing trend among 
graduates is an interest in prirnary and 
secondary education. Anschutz iuune-
diately focused on this issue when she 
took up her post as associate dean in 
2004. One of her personal projects was 
to encourage Divinity School training 
for future heads of private elementary 
and secondary schools. And not just 
religious schools 
Anschutz feels that 
a background in theology and spiritual-
ity can be extremely valuable in a secu-
lar set I ing. 


So does Andrew Wooden, who 
enrolled at the Divinity School in 1993 
for precisely that reason. He came to. 
Yale from Choate Rosemary Hall, a 
Northeast boarding school, where he'd 
worked as an English teacher and then 
as the Director of Admissions. Almost 
forty when he enrolled, Wooden was 
not looking for a religious comrnunity. 
He planned to avoid the daily chapel 
services and other aspects of the 
school's Hspiritual formation" program 
and instead focused on his study of lit-
erature. Wooden hoped this plan would 
set hitn on a path to become a head of 
school somewhere in New England. 


Traditionally, a high percentage of 
headmasters held Divinity degrees, as 
schools saw the role of headmaster as 
sitnilar to the role of a head of a reli-
gious conununity. ''We care a lot about 
the moral and ethical development of 
people;' Wooden said. 


After six months, Wooden was 
drawn into the Div chool comrnunity. 
''It awakened my spiritual life," he said. 
''It's a perfect little gem." 


While writing a paper about the 
pueblo churches of New Mexico, · 
Wooden 
ran 
into 
a 
group 
of 
Albuquerque parents in the process of 
. founding a new college preparatory 
school Setting aside his initial goal of 
leading an established New England 
school, Wooden seized the opportunity. 



**Title: The Yale Divinity School**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
The Divinity School had worked its 
. . fu . 
h' 
'th 
" cular all 
tnagtc, m smgun W1 
a se 
c -
, ing to start son1ething new. YDS gave me 
the courage to go out and tty something 
risky."· Wooden is now in his tenth year as 
Head of Bosque School, which he has 
watched grow from 75 to five hundred 
students, praised for its focus on the 
moral development of its students. 

The Yale Divinity School has long 
pursued the task President Kingman 
Brewster assigned the University forty 
years ago: To train a generation of 
leaders. To lead 
be it in a moral or 
civic capacity, in a church or in a high 
school 
one must know what he or 
she believes and why. A Yale Divinity 
School education can provide one with 
this knowledge. 

prawled on the trim grass of 
the 
Sterling 
Divinity 
Quadrangle, one is saturated 
by a quiet that is hard to find on the 
central University campus. Here, the 
cahn mood suits the Georgian brick 
buildings, 
ubiquitous 
white 
columns, and the solid, square chapel 
at the end of the quad. 

''It's a splendid setting for a Divinity 
School 
education," 
says 
Linda 
Lorimer, Yale Vice President and 
Secretary. "I'm very pleased the 
University made the major investment 
to renovate." 

"It continues to be a gem," Wooden 
agrees. He speaks of a renovation . 
that not only precluded further 
asbestos leakage, but launched a pro-
gram of conceptual change. "It just 
seems to have a larger mission now." 

Now, the school prepares its stu-
dents not only for the academic · and 
religious environment, as it did in the 
19th and 20th centuries, but for the real 
world. 

As Anderson described; the 
Divinity School is finally catching up. 
-
T'\.1 
Nicole Allan, a Sophomore in Calhoun 
College, is Production Manager of TNJ. 
September 2006 


**Title: WORKING GROUP**

WORI<ING GROUP 
This group is · aimed at fostering a 
university-wide dialogue on the relation-
ships between scientific findings and the 
relig_ious quest, with a particular empha-
sis on the neurosciences and their impact 
on questions of theology, ethics, and 
belief. The group also sponsors presen-
tations by leading scientists, theologians, 
and · ethicists from Yale and elsewhere, 
and will develop group-authored publica-
tions. A professional science background 
is not required. Undergraduates, gradu-
ates, faculty, and the academically 
engaged public are invited 
Facilitated by Nihal de Lanerolle, Professor of 
Neurosurgery and Neurobiology and Chaplain of 
- the Episcopal Church at Yale. 

A grant from the Metanexus Institute's Local Societies 
Initiative funds this program. 

When: 
6:30- 8 pm Thursdays when classes are in 
session. (You may drop in to shop the group.) 

Where: 
Yale Divinity School o ISM Seminar Room 
1st Floor (ask at the front desk) 

Contacts: 
nihal.delanerolle@yale.edu or james. van 
pelt@yale.edu (624-0122) 


**Title: Habitat for Humanity Bicycle Challenge**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

Day 26. Jefferson, lA to Dunlap, 
lA. 86.5 tniles. 
SEVERE TI-IUNDERSTORM WARN-
ing. Please move to a secure location in your house. 
If you live in a mobile home, please move to a more 
secure indoor location. Storm capable of producing 
nickel-sized haiL Winds up to 60 miles per hour. 
-Weather forecast for Jefferson, Iowa, 
June 21, 2006 
We wake at 5:30 -a.m., and by 7:30-
after rolling up ThermaRests, filling water 
. bottles, pumping tires, and stuffing Clif 
bars into our back pockets 
we ease back 
onto our bicycles and head off. Most days, 
courtesy of Brandon's nifty Blackberry, 
we know the daily high temperature, 
chance of precipitation, wind speed and 
direction. But not today. While Jefferson, 
Iowa has a bell tower, a shiny new Rec 
·center, and a public library that 
lends out both romance 
novels and cake 
pans, the 
town _ does not have cell phone service. 

Not until two miles out is there enough 
service to download the weather forecast, 
but by then we are. spread out over a long 
stretch of road, well on our way. 

Lina and I hive cycled about seven 
miles, chatting about poems and past 
crushes and favorite restaurants, when we 
both look ahead and fall silent. The sky is 
dark grey, but the other colors 
the green 
of the fields and the black of the 
asphalt 
are eerily bright. Directly ahead, 
a halo of white light surrounds a small, 
grey shack 
the only building in sight. 

On our right, a cluster of clouds seems to 
drip · right down to the ground. "That's 
rain," I say. We continue pedaling, 
approaching the line where the cloud 
stops melting 
the beginning of the 
storm. 

''What should we do?" Lina 
asks. 
There is nothing 
to do. 
We are the 
only ones in the 
uruverse: 
no 
riders to be 
seen, 
cars, 
buildings, no 
trees, no hills. 
There is noth-
ing but flat, end-
less field in every 
direction; the only 
sign of human life is 
the artificial straight-
ness_of the rows of crops. 
We keep on biking, the lines of 
• • 
our tires tracing from New Haven to 
Portland, across the United States as rid-
ers on the annual Habitat for Humanity 
Bicycle Chillenge. 

Over nine weeks and four thousand 
miles we traveled through farms and small 
towns from Pennsylvania to Iowa, biking 
each day and staying in churches and 
community centers each night. Each of 
the ninety Yale students on this year's .trip 
has raised money, relying on sponsorship 
from churches, fraternities, and next-door 
neighbors. Now in its twelfth year, the 
Challege 
generated 
approximately 
$420,000 this summer toward housing for 
low-income families. 

On the road, we ride another mile 
before I feel the fttst drop. "Lina!" We 
look at each other. "Sophia!" But even as 
she yells my name I lose sight of her. I 
scream as the rain pummels down on us 
and I have to duck rny head almost 
between my legs. I try to keep my eyes 
open through the waterfall pouring over 
my face. "SHOULD WE STOP?" Lina 
screams . 

"NO!" I yell; I feel infused, almost 
high with purpose: MUST KEEP BIK-
ING. Thunder crash.es above us. 

A few hundred feet farther along the 
road we find shelter in a barn. Others, we 
find out later, have escaped into a tractor 
garage, hidden under a front porch, and 
in the worst case, huddled in a ditch, · 
holding their bikes above their heads 
until a passing pick-up truck rescued 
them. Half-an-hour later we are back on 
our bikes, trying to remember all the 
words to Paula Abdul's ccStraight Up,". the 
water spinning off our wheels the only 
THE NEW JOURNAL 

Only 78 more 
· 
to go today. 

43. Moran Junction, WY to 
t Yellowstone, MT. 88.7 tni1es. 
We sit on the benches circling Old 
Faithful, waiting for .the show. Japanese 
tourists toting fanny packs, fathers 
peering through heavy binoculars, 
mothers wearing pink visors and little 
girls sucking on melting popsicles all 
mill around the RV-packed parking lot, 
the gift shop, the restaurant, the hotel, 
the bathrooms, constantly checking 
their watches. According to the large 
clock at the entrance, Hie' will happen 
at 2:47 p.m .. 

"What makes this one special?'' a 
little boy asks his father. Good ques-
. tion. "Ies extremely predictable,'' the 
father answers, as the first spurts of 
steaming water shoot up. Watching the 
reactions of my fellow riders, I marvel 
at the irony. 

We biked over ninety 
miles to see this: the opposite of pre-
dictable. The crowd begins to ooh 
and ahh. 

Day 
7. 
Wellsboro, 
PA 
to 
S.tnethport, PA. 69.5 tniles. 

I've gone twelve miles and just gotten 
my third flat tire of the trip. On the rear 
· "Y~eel, I find a big gash. I'm alone and 
riding "sweep," the designated last rider, 
so there is no one behind me. I need a 
new tire. I need the van. I need to call the 
van. 

I 
need 
cell 
phone 
service. 
I. need help. 

''You need help?" yells an older man 
• wearing a camouflage baseball hat out the 
. window of a slowing SUV I ask him if 
he has cell phone service and he laughs, 
then adds, "There's an inn down the 
road, they got a public phone there. I can 
give ya a ride 
just pop yer bike in the 
back." 

I pause for a motnent, then get in. 

''Yer not one of them 'Habitat for 
Humanity' folks, are ya?" he says as I 
buckle my seatbelt. It sounds like he's 
asking me if I have the plague. I tell him 
I am, and he lets out a loud guffaw. ''You 
·. tellin' me I let one of them damn liberals 
in my car?" he yells, in what I hope is 
jovial disbelief. I stammer something 
about Habitat being a Christian organiza-
tion and he cuts me off. "I just don't 

believe in givin' people like that stuff for 
free." I consider telling him Habitat isdt 
a handout, but decide on an enthusiastic 
nod instead . 

"I work!" he continues, "I work my 
whole life. How come they get to just sit 
on their ass and we're gonna give 'em a 
house!" He looks over at me. 

''Yeah," I say, trying to look as con-
vinced as possible. He seems satisfied. 

''They always gonna be trash." He 
checks the rearview mirror. ''You know, 
it's like my daddy used to say: 'trash 
begets trash."' 

There are broad vistas of the road, the 
cozy church basement~ we sleep in every 
night, and there is this 
the America we 
came to see, devoid of postcard beauty . 
The Pennsylvania wilderness rolls by, and 
we ride in silence the rest of the way to 
the inn, my bike in the back. 

Day 45. West Yellowstone, MT to 
Virginia City, MT. 78.2 tniles. 

'~e you serious? I'd put that thing on 
in a second," Schecter says and we laugh 
as we discuss the possibility of a wearable 
happiness machine. The five of us are 
flying; the road is flat, there is a tailwind, 
and, although I am barely pedaling, my 
odometer reads 23 miles per hour. "'This 
helmet is going to permanently maximize 
my happiness? Who wouldn't put it on?'' 
he continues, siu ing up straight and ped-
aling with his hands by his side. 

Deirdre glances over her shoulder at 
Schecter. "But it's not real. Really you're 
just sitting in a chair with electrodes 
attached to you." 

'~nd how about other people?" I say, 
swerving away from some road kill. 
"Like, you meet the absolute love of your 
life, and you're happy because you believe 
there really exists out there someone you 
connect with that deeply, but actually 

"No, I'm happy because my wife is 
hot." 

Schecter giggles, and Deirdre 
shakes her head in disgust. ''You are 
ridiculous," she says, speeding up to 
Adam and Colin. 

Whatever Schecter says, we don't want 
some hypothetical helmet that sits us 
still 
we want a bike helmet and the wind 
at our backs. We all want to see things.-
the golden and the gritty. We want to see 
• .LU.,g. 

I look out at the mountains. I am 
starving. I look down at my odometer; 
we've gone 43.2 miles. 

It's almost 
lunchtime. Deirdre and Colin are talking, 
but I can't hear them, and Schecter has 
fallen silent, so I start to scan the horizon 
for the turquoise trailer, praying that 
there wi11 still be lunchmeat by the time 
we get there. 

Sophia Lear is a Junior in Ezra Stiles College .. 



**Connecticut's Last Hurrah: A Dying Man's Itinerary**
**Author: Jon Hood & Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
..,
z
..... -c • -c -a
! -!
~
• •
• cu
roa
'
by Jon Hood & Adriane
uinlan
The foreboding exterior of the Mark Twain House in Hartford
34
.
ay you're about to die, and
you're in Connecticut. You
basically have two options:
First: You book a plane
ticket to Aruba, empty your bank
account on a cheap prostitute and an
expensive bottle of rum, pen a verbose
will, shack up in a cabana, and let death
take its course.

Second: Let's be serious. You look at
the cold, rain-soaked street and realize:
I live in Connecticut. I don't do places
like Aruba. I don't do sun. So you do
what you do every day. You walk into
the corner bookshop and think, 'these
are all the books I will die without reading.' You silently accept that fact and
grab a neatly-packaged guide to your
last days: 1000 Places to See Before You Die.
The author of this 894-page tome is
Patricia Schultz, a former Conde Nast
travel writer who, judging by the youthful
headshot on the dust jacket, has not
lived long enough to have ventured to
all one thousand sites. The resulting
compilation reads less like a handy travel
guide than a coffee-table book, featuring cute descriptions of teahouses
and temples. Of the 184 pages devoted
to the United States, four are dedicated
to Connecticut. And since you have a
day to live
maybe less, as the doctor · ·
was a little vague
it offers a handy
itinerary for your last hours on Earth .
Turn to page 592. Your first stop is
Essex, which Schultz calls "a mint-condition one-traffic-light river town where
the dignified revolutionary-era spirit
still lingers.''


Essexs historic Griswold Inn boasts (The Gun Room," where todqy thry serve breakfast if you can keep it down.
What's lingering today are the clouds.
At a gray 9:30 a.m., you're tumbling down
a road toward a sleepy shoreline town in
Southern Connecticut. Essex boasts the
Griswold Inn, otherwise known as "the
Griz," where
along with every other
historical site in the Northeast
George
Washington once shared
a drink with pals. That -
sounds good, but it's 10
a.m.
Breakfast?
Let's
look in the book ...
"Guests come for the
table-groaning
buffet
(the inn's sausage is
made from a historical
recipe)." You approach
the bored blonde who
staffs the Inn's front
entrance. She gives you a
once-over and, as if
death is etched on your
e
face, coldly replies that the Griz "~oes
not serve breakfast to non-guests."
You accept visual nourishment instead,
idly wandering among the Currier & Ives
prints that Schultz praises. What you find
is The Gun Room, where a veritable
smorgasbord of pistols, muskets, and big
old clunkers of guns deck the walls. Way
September 2006
to drill in the mortality issue, Schultz.
Guests loll in the foyer, waiting in
limbo. Is there a tour bus coming? A toy-
ship-building convention that starts up in
an hour? You leave and walk down thin,
angling roads toward the dockyard,
where boats slowly rust and men in rain-
coats yell at the gray sky. Despite the
storm, there's one place still serving coffee
The Craw's
Nest.
The
Nest is just a step below heaven,
its
butter-yellow
kitchen
offering
Mexican omelettes on plastic plates. On
the deck sits a priest, staring out past an
overweight family
digging into homemade
The narrow road feels like a footpath
by the River Styx
townsmen mill about
in the mist with vacant looks on their
-
faces, their mouths agape like zombies.
You flee, crossing the river on a white
bridge, and twist up the sinister cartoon
hill. There you find a dark castle, not
unlike Count Chocula's, a cairn of rough-
35
...,
1--c
ns -c ·-
::s a
Q)
c
ns ·-...
"0


hewn, rain-soaked stones.
It looks like the watchtower of Hell.
You leave, quickly, letting the car glide
down the hill. The hours are ticking by ...
Death waits for no man, and neither
will your second stop: Mystic Seaport, "a
recreated coastal village that brings salty
19th century maritime America to life."
Life!
• . It's really raining now. Water sweeps
across the roads, funneling down to
· Mystic Seaport, the town you know best
as the backdrop for "Mystic Pizza." At
death's door, you can't believe you ever
wasted precious hours watching a young
Julia Roberts sprinkle parmesan and peppercorns.

You're becoming skeptical of Schultz's
judgment. Sure, Essex was beautiful, but
by classifying it as something necessary
to see before dying, Schultz defines what
is necessary to accomplish in life. Can we
not live out our lives in our own back-
yards, cultivating our own gardens?
Who's to say it's more necessary to see a
' quaint tourist town than a Julia Roberts
movie that runs on TBS?
Like Essex, Mystic appears to be just
another tiny town near another big body
of water. More boats with big, tipsy
masts scoot around a harbor, flanked by
mz
narrow roads
t e
ver
out zn
t:
ezr
0
more specialty shops selling tea-cozies
and ships-in-bottles. It feels like an imitation of a historic town that never existed.
Whaling
the town's ancient industry-
was a messy business, but Mystic's current
wares smell of cinnamon and all-
spice. The drawbridge that once lifted for
big, muddy boats has become a show.
"Oh, look," a woman gasps, grabbing her
husband's arm, 'We almost missed seeing
the bridge!"
·
The other big draw is a maritime
museum that boasts what Schultz calls
36
"one of the world's largest beluga whale
exhibits." Here, you're in the belly of the
beast. Tourists cram the museum's walkways, hallways, and parking lot. So the
car's parallel-parked in front of Mystic's
drawbridge, providing a front-row seat
for a show too boring to watch. Someone
has parked illegally behind you and, by
God, you're on a hill, driving a stick, and
you're trapped. You put the car in neutral,
pump the clutch, and use the parking
brake for all it's worth. While you struggle, a dog on the street guards the glut-
tons feasting inside Mystic's historic ice
cream shop. He's a mean, growly thing,
and he snaps at you.
It's time to get the hell_out of Mystic.
_ You would go around the world to
escape such a dull town, so you consult
your guide. Why, lookee here, Schultz
says that "literary fans come from around
the world to visit the home of one of
America's most famous and beloved
authors"
Mark Twain. His house is in
downtown Hartford, and at five p.m.-
it's already that late
the traffic is as slow
as . honey dripping down the back of a
spoon. The road leading into the city is
balanced on columns and the city below
looks like a network of ditches.
You descend into the urban tangle
vacant
ezr mouths
and find a network of brown signs pointing
toward the house. Like Hansel and
Gretel, you follow the crumbs to the
doorstep, where a broad-shouldered
giantess of a woman emerges from a
door nestled in the gentle slope that is
Marky's lawn.
'We're closed," she shouts, waddling
to her waiting chariot.
Your watch confirms this: It's past .
five. But the house still stands
a glorious, red-brick Victorian with windows
that reflect a sky as white as bone.
You wait for her to pass, climb down
a ditch, and relieve yourself in the bushes (the road to Hartford was a lesson in
patience for your bladder). You pass the
gift-shop, where a glass window showcases stiff porcelain dolls, faces upturned
like those of children frozen in a lake.
They stare back, as if you are a traitor for
being here at all. "Don't you," they seem
to ask, "have somewhere you should be?"
Your guide told you to be here, however, so you stand on tiptoes, peering into
the house's windows like Tom Sawyer
watching his own funeral from the attic.
You feel as if you are seeing the rooms as
they should be seen, not paraded about by
an authoritative tour guide, but peeked at
by a deceitful child.
You walk back up the ragged hill, with
grass long and overgrown like Lucifer's
matted fur. You pass through the center of
the parking lot, where the car glimmers
faintly in the twilight like a dying star.
The rain has stopped. It's clear, and so
are the roads to your penultimate destination: Litchfield Hills and The Mayflower
Inn. "Unfolding beyond every bend of
the area's meandering roads," your guide
describes, "is a Classic Currier and Ives
landscape of 18th and 19th century salt-
box farmhouses, red cabins, imposing
white clapboard mansions, stone walls,
and quiet lakes."
Your route winds down from Twain's
house on a Hartford hill to the quiet
towns of the Litchfield Hills area, frequented by city dwellers who don't mind
driving only an hour from New York.
You can't understand why anyone would
leave willingly: It's an idyllic postcard, a
land bereft of chain stores and parking
lots. Do the people here ever eat anything
besides crumbling scones at fire-lit coffee
. shops? The only thing missing is sin, and
you can't help thinking city dwellers have
come here to expunge it.
You're looking for the historic
Mayflower Inn, located at the top of a
hill in Litchfield Hills. Once a private
boys' school, it is now a gourmet restaurant housed a posh hotel, and one of the
four things you're supposed to witness
before the Reaper.
The full moon rises above the hills,
illuminating an oversized Georgian mansion which must have been a simple
farmhouse at one time, now couched in



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Take a creepy sidetrip to Gillette Castle, once home to the rflicial actor-impersonator of Sherlock Holmes, Jack Gillette . 
one hundred years of built-on additions. 
You pull into the hotel- lot, squeeze 
between a Mercedes and a Lexus and 
avoid making eye contact with a teenage 
valet who peers out at the dark as he 
assists older women in silken evening 
gowns into the swank, historic dining 
room. 

You're starving and want to go inside, 
but you're not properly dressed: This 
world, this Paradise, was not meant for 
you. The light wafting from the scores of 
windows is amber, glowing with a 
warmth you'll never feeL 
You walk away from the Inn and 
ascend a series of terraces. Where do 
they lead? Go upward, cross a hedgerow 
and levels of terraced lawn. 

Did Patricia experience this? The wet 
grass grazing your ankles, the sight of the 
diners below, stuffing their faces with crab-
cakes and spit-sloppy cigars? Did she stop 
to see the simple beauty that exists between 
September 2006 
places, at the center of everything? 
What the book gets wrong, you think, 
is that just knowing you are going to die 
makes everything beautiful, and every-
thing meaningless. To travel propelled by 
the dateline of an impending death is to 
travel without really seeing. If the same 
book was called 1000 Things to See it 
would never have sold so well 
the title 
appeals to an illogical and morbid fear, to 
our vision of the world as a check list 
where beauty can be a feat seen and 
accomplished. 

At the top of these terraces, you cross 
a hedge and find yourself trapped inside 
. a puzzle 
a curving maze of · garden 
hedges in concentric circles 
the sort of 
labyrinth pilgrims would walk in medieval 
churches. 
You look at your watch and it's ten 
p.m. Your stomach growls 
a sure sign 
you're still alive. You get back on the road 
and look for a restaurant. Is there a 
Friendly's? McDonald's? No, the fttst 
place you see is John's, a classy place with 
a purple placard sporting scarlet berries. 
You're much happier to arrive at this cafe 
than you were to see any of the four 
places in Schultz's book. A waitress seats 
you and offe~s liqueur and a pasta platter . 

Around you, older couples lounge in 
leather seats, enjoying their late-night 
suppers, cackling like fat Roman emper-
ors. This is hell, you think, biting the head 
of a jumbo-shrimp marinated in a bal-
samic reduction, and you are loving it. 
On the drive back you pass a tomb-
stone store, and consider stopping to 
place an order. Since surely, now, you've 
seen all there is to see. 
Adriane Quinlan, a Ssenior in Calhoun 
College, is Editor-in-Chief of TN]. Jon Hood 
is a Senior in Ezra Stiles.


**Author: Margaret Mapondera**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Tonya A (Tutor): Welcome to Tutor.com. Do you 
have a homework question I can help you with? 

Me: I gots to write a story, but I'm not sure how to 
start? 
You know that you've reached your low point when 
you get your kicks by posing online as a desperate high 
schooler. Some titne last year, I reached my low point. 
Tonya A (Tutor): What must your story be about? 
Me: It has to be about my most favorite thing in the 
world. 


Although I first visited Tutor.com on a lark," I was 
hooked on the site's Live Homework Help from . the 
moment I logged on. Tonya A · and her colleagues were 
willing to help me with any problem I co~d imagine, 
and I took a perverse pleasure in inventing homework 
assignments to challenge them. 

Tonya A (Tutor): Have you decided what your 
favorite thing in the world is? 
Me: I think it would have to be my puppy ... I guess I 
should start with what he looks like? 
38 
Tonya A (Tutor): That sounds great! Yes, let your 
reader know what it is and then what he looks like. 


by Margaret Mapondera 
. On occasion, a tutor would offer a good piece of 
writing advice. Let me tell you what Tutor.com is and 
what it looks like. 
First, what it looks like. Just showing it might be 
simplest: 


Now, what it is. Tutor. com is a library initiative 
to help New Haven students with school. Earlier this 
year, the New Haven Free Public Library introduced 
the Live Homework Help ™ system to assist citywide 
students fourth grade through college by providing 
"expert tutors." The site employs over one thousand 
tutors across the United States and Canada, inlcud-
ing certified teachers, university professors, graduate 
and undergraduate students, and professionals 
regarded as experts in their fields. The tutors con-
duct live, one-on-one online help sessions, assisting 
students with homework in math, the sciences, social 
studies and English. 
First introduced in 2000, Tutor.com is now acces-
sible from 1500 public library sites across the United 
States and Canada. The program's intention is to 
offer all children 
regardless of their economic 
background, geography, and scholastic ability 
the 
homework help they need through their local library. 
It is a laudable policy: The site doesn't even discrim-
inate against a high-achieving Ivy League student liv-
ing comfortably in the Gothic cradle of Yale. 


Tutor.com has received a favorable response from 
its users: "It's better than a real ~lassroom 'cause you 
are not afraid to ask them questions!" says one tenth 
grade student. "It's awesome!" seconds a fourth 
grader. Over 9 5 °/o 
of students who have used Tutor.com report that 
they're pleased. 
I am among that happy 95°/o. Not only have 
tutors helped me with my times tables, they have also 
brightened many sleepless nights that I might other-
wise have spent watchtng reruns o f "Cheers. 
Tutor.com is indeed awesome. 
It didn't take long for me to become a dedicated dis-
ciple 
every evening I would double-click my way into a 
new persona. I battled with ever 
g from split infini-
tives to long division (which is a lot more confusing than 
it was in fourth grade). The trouble came when I 
attempted to ask my first science question. Up until then 
I had stuck to what I knew: simple questions about essay 
writing and elementary mathematics. Then one night I 
decided to ask a question about science. 

Jeremy B (Tutor): Welcome to Tutor.com. How can 
I help you? 

Me: Hi there, I just wanted to ask for a little clarifica-
tion on stem cells and their uses in the medical field. 
I thought this was a vaguely intelligent sounding ques-
tton. 

Jeremy B (Tutor): Ok, what can you tell me about 
them? That will give me a better idea of what to , 
talk abut. 
I proceeded to give a confused description of stem 
cells as I understood them. I wished desperately that my 
Tutor would step in and give me an answer. 
Jeremy B (Tutor): That was fine: 
Jeremy B (Tutor): So you have just gone over the 
basics of them? 

Me: Yup! Maybe I should wait until my profes- .. 
sor has gone over it in depth and I'll read up on , 
it on the net. I'm sure there are millions of web- : 
sites all over the place - any recommendations? : 
- Jeremy B (Tutor): You are in a college class? 
Oh for goodness sake! What was this 
twenty 
questions? At this point I was getting seriously 
annoyed. 
Me: urn ... no. . . I am a high school student sit-
ting in on a college class! I need help! I need 
Tutor.com! I gots to write a story but I'm not 
sure how to end it! 
My disguise was lifted 
~ had been found out. 
I never did log back on to Tutor.com. These 
days, I find myself lonely on Friday nights, staring 
at the luminous computer screen with the grinning 
yellow icon looking back at me, wanting desperate-. 
ly to click the 'Connect' button that would lead me 
to the online classroom 
to my old tutors, my old 
friends, where everybody knows my name. 
Here I am, a sophomore at Yale College, and 
I've just been expelled from high school. 

Margaret Mapondera is a sophomore in Timothy Dwight 
College. 
39 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 40 ---
