Publication date: APR 2018
Volume: 50
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: Mark Rosenberg, Annie Rosenthal
- managing editor: Arya Sundaram
- senior editors: Antonia Ayres-Brown, Chris Hays, Robert Scaramuccia
- associate editors: Laura Glesby, Max Graham, Rachel Koh, Sohum Pal, Elliot Wailoo
- reporting supported by the Edward Bennett III Memorial Fund
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Lincoln Caplan, Linda Colman, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Juliana Hanle, Kathrin Lassila, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Eric Rutkow, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, John Rosenberg and Susan Bennett, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen
- copy editors: Kofi Ansong, Yonatan Greenberg, Sofia Laguarda, Sara Luzuriaga, Eliana Swerdlow
- executive design editor: Julia Hedges
- associate design editors: Felicia Chang, Meher Hans
- photo editors: Robbie Short, Vivek Suri
- web developer: Philippe Chlenski


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- MULTIPLE CHOICE - Mark Rosenberg
- PLAYING SICK - Rachel Koh
- GILDING THE GREEN - Talia Schechet
- I (ALMOST) GOT CLOBBERED BY YOUR MOM - Jacob Sweet
- PANGAEA’S EDGE - Christine Xu
- A VOCAL REVIVAL - Katherine Hu
- THE MUSIC AT THE MARGINS - Amanda Thomas
- THE SHIPPING NEWS - Dimitri Diagne
- ANATOMY OF OBSERVATION - Fernando Rojas
- A MAGE IN THE MAKING - Henry Reichard


**Title: Dear readers,**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal and Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,
The New Journal’s history begins in 1967, when our intrepid founders took it upon themselves to create a publication 
suited to cover the city and the University in an era of seismic change. This issue, we’re turning back the clock 175 
million years, to another era of seismic change: the moment when Connecticut broke off from Pangaea. In our first piece 
sponsored by the Edward B. Bennett III Memorial Fund, Christine Xu explores how Connecticut’s geological history has 
shaped New Haven’s development and the way its inhabitants relate to their surroundings. The Fund was established in 
memory of beloved TNJ alum “Edder” Bennett, who revived the magazine in the 1980s and laid the foundation for the 
work we do today. We hope the Fund will make ambitious reporting projects like Christine’s more accessible to student 
reporters for decades to come.

This magazine was conceived as a publication devoted to covering “the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from 
the Old Yale, which in its own day was presumably considered new.” (“Besides,” our founders continued, “things seemed 
to be getting slow around here.”) Fifty-one years later, we’re thinking about what the New Yale looks like today, and what 
demands that creates for student journalism. To that end, we aim to provide a thoughtful, well-researched and well-written 
take on the biggest stories of the moment –– and to draw your attention to things that may not make it into the news. We 
want to live up to our motto, “The Magazine About Yale & New Haven,” by engaging with our campus and our city in a 
passionate, attentive way. And we want to make you laugh.

This issue is inspired by each of those ideas. Our cover story examines a fierce debate about New Haven’s public schools 
that swept the city this spring. Bringing the theme of education to campus, two snapshots delve into the ways that 
undergraduates are pushing Yale to expand its offerings in jazz and indigenous languages. We’ve got pieces on the Port of 
New Haven, medical actors, Connecticut’s roller derby scene, and so much more. We hope you enjoy reading, and, both 
now and throughout the year ahead, we’d love to hear from you. 
Annie Rosenthal and Mark Rosenberg,
Editors-in-Chief


**Title: MULTIPLE CHOICE**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 20**

MULTIPLE CHOICE
What is the future of education in New Haven? With 
the city up in arms, three schools may hold the answer.



**Title: PANGAEA’S EDGE**
**Author: Christine Xu**
**Page number(s): 30**

PANGAEA’S EDGE
New Haven sits on the birth scars of the Atlantic Ocean. 
The rocks here tell the story of its human history.


**Title: PLAYING SICK**
**Author: Rachel Koh**
**Page number(s): 4**

PLAYING SICK — Rachel Koh


**Title: GILDING THE GREEN**
**Author: Talia Schechet**

GILDING THE GREEN — Talia Schechet


**Title: I (ALMOST) GOT CLOBBERED BY YOUR MOM**
**Author: Jacob Sweet**

I (ALMOST) GOT CLOBBERED BY YOUR MOM — Jacob Sweet


**Title: A VOCAL REVIVAL**
**Author: Katherine Hu**
**Page number(s): 10**

A VOCAL REVIVAL  — Katherine Hu
The stakes are high for Native American Yalies fighting to learn their own languages.


**Title: THE MUSIC AT THE MARGINS**
**Author: Amanda Thomas**
**Page number(s): 14**

THE MUSIC AT THE MARGINS — Amanda Thomas
A group of undergrads is working overtime to get Yale to take jazz seriously.


**Title: THE SHIPPING NEWS**
**Author: Dimitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 16**

THE SHIPPING NEWS — Dimitri Diagne
What will an expansion of the Port of New Haven mean for the workers down at 	
the docks?


**Title: ANATOMY OF OBSERVATION**
**Author: Fernando Rojas**
**Page number(s): 28**

ANATOMY OF OBSERVATION — Fernando Rojas


**Title: A MAGE IN THE MAKING**
**Author: Henry Reichard**
**Page number(s): 38**

A MAGE IN THE MAKING — Henry Reichard



**Title: PLAYING SICK**
**Author: Rachel Koh**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
RYAN PATEL, a 30-year-old therapist, sits before a 
fidgeting first-year medical student. Aryan needs med-
ical attention: He has a fever, severe nasal congesion, 
and a sharp constant pain in his right cheek bone. He anx-
iously kneads his knee with his hand, unable to stop thinking 
about his blood tests: are his blood sugar levels too high?
The medical student clasps his hands together and nods 
nervously. “Oh, I see. Okay,” he says. He runs through the 
script in his mind: Elicit details of the patient’s symptoms. 
Ask about past medical care. What he forgets is: How is 
your family? How are you feeling?   

Because he is not asked, Aryan does not reveal that he 
fears he’s inherited his father’s Type 2 Diabetes. He is con-
stantly fatigued, and his tiredness has left him distant, dis-
tracted. As the interview limps to resolution, Aryan looks 
reserved, tense, and forlorn. Unspoken discomfort hangs 
in the air.  

“Great, thank you, that’s great,” comes a voice from 
the corner of the room. With those words, the simulation 
ends. The room breathes a sigh of relief. The observing 
doctor chuckles, “You did a great job. Made me very ner-
vous.” He then gives the medical student a chance to re-at-
tempt parts of the conversation, to offer a warmer tone, to 
ask more personal questions, and to project more empa-
thy. Once the student is through, ‘Aryan’ stands up, breaks 
into a brilliant smile, and ambles out of the room.

We are sitting in a small classroom in the Yale School of 
Medicine’s Hope Building, where four first-year medical 
students and an experienced physician are conducting a 
workshop on interviewing patients. ‘Aryan’ is one of many 
actors –– termed Standardized Patients, or SPs — paid 
to portray patients in medical simulations. SPs were first 
introduced in the United States in the nineteen-seventies, 
and have since become a routine part of every medical 
student’s training and assessment process. These patients 
are played by a motley crew of retirees, aspiring actors, 
and college students. The ailments they perform are 
largely mundane –– sinusitis, chest pain –– but their sur-
face symptoms come with deep-seated anxieties and com-
plex backstories.  

For the medical student, the objective is to get the 
information they need while ensuring that the “patient” 
remains comfortable. But this is no simple task. SPs mem-
orize character sketches with the patient’s background, 
medications, emotional contexts, and family history. To 
uncover all of this in a twenty-minute interview, students 
must be persistent and probing, but also inviting and kind. 
One script used in today’s workshop spells out what a 
patient coming in with heel pain should divulge, but only 
if pressed further:

If asked, the pain feels like a knife when you take a full 
step.

If asked, you like to wear boots or shoes with a medi-
um-sized heel to look professional.

Finding the right question is key. If they ask a yes-or-no 
question, all they get is a yes or a no. If they ask open-ended 
questions, they are rewarded with more information. With 
patience and practice, students learn to gently unravel the 
personal contexts that underlie patients’ symptoms. 

Through simulations with SPs, medical students culti-
vate the skills necessary for patient-centered healthcare, 
which situates symptoms in the context of the patient’s 
broader emotional well-being and lifestyle. Dr. Auguste 
Fortin, professor at the Yale School of Medicine, is interna-
tionally recognized for his educational work in improving 
clinicians’ communication skills and patient experience. 
“[It] is not just touchy-feely… to use patient-centered 
interviewing skills,” he said at a physician-patient commu-
nication conference held in 2011. He rattled off a litany of 
benefits: more accurate diagnoses, improved medication 
compliance, fewer tests and referrals, and faster symp-
tom resolution. In short: better healthcare, with happier 
patients and doctors. 

The American healthcare system is uniquely ineffi-
cient. A 2016 report by Gallup shows that Americans are 
dissatisfied with the services they receive, even while 
spending twice as much on healthcare compared to cit-
izens of other developed nations. In important ways, this 
inefficiency is a product of a system that does not promote 
listening to its patients. As Dr. Fortin argues, “We inter-
rupt our patients prematurely an average of twenty-one 
seconds into a visit. When we do that, we fail to address 
the patient’s concerns, and we fail to really understand 
the patient’s full agenda for why they are seeking health-
care.” When doctors do not convey empathy, patients feel 
alienated. Alienated patients don’t take their medication, 
adhere to advice, or follow up on referrals. 

SPs form the flesh and blood of the shift towards 
patient-centered healthcare. At times, their work places 
extreme emotional demands on them. Jackie Sidle 
worked as a SP in and around New Haven for fourteen 
years before becoming Coordinator of the SP program at 
Danbury Hospital. In one of her most demanding roles, 
she played a woman with borderline personality disorder. 
“That was very difficult because she was suicidal,” said 
Jackie, her tone darkening. “She had been sexually abused 
and raped when she was nine. She was a drug user. She 
was so sad. And she was mean, so that was hard.” Nursing 
students on their psych rotation often left in tears after 
their encounter. 

 “It’s real. It feels real,” Jackie said. “I mean, there’s 
medical equipment around you, there’s someone in a 
white coat and a stethoscope, and you’re sitting in a hos-
pital gown. You’re innately very vulnerable.” SPs find dif-
ferent ways to navigate the reality of their characters’ lives. 
Some bring pictures of their own kids. Jackie used an alias 
every time, a combination of her middle name and the 
street she lived on in Chicago. She never liked using her 
real name. “It just felt like bad karma,” she said, shaking 
her head. 

Another difficult role: being the recipient of bad news. 
Jackie recalled workshops for “Disclosing the Unexpected 
Death of a Loved One”; in one case, the trainee had to 
tell a man that his 50-year-old wife, who came in for a 
checkup after feeling leg pain on a flight, had died while 
he went to run an errand. At times, the simulation was 
so harrowing that the medical students broke down into 
tears. But it was even more fatiguing for the person who 
has to pretend, again and again, to discover that their wife 
is dead. Jackie remembers one SP who volunteered to do 
the simulation three times in a row –– by the end, she 
said, “it looked like a truck hit him.” Now, as Coordinator, 
Jackie limits SPs to no more than two bad news simula-
tions in a row. 

For the most part, however, simulations do not deal 
with severe, life-changing diseases or devastating news. 
In the Yale School of Medicine, SPs flit in and out of 
rooms with ease, rattling off rehearsed answers to stan-
dard questions. Still, one cannot help but be struck by 
how earnestly students approach the patients before them, 
and the professionalism and skill with which the patients 
enact their roles. Outside the simulation, a slight shift in 
tone, or the minutiae of one’s facial expressions –– even a 
moment of eye-contact –– can forever alter a patient’s life. 
But in here, students can make mistakes. They can start 
over. Slowly but surely, even nervous, fidgeting students 
learn when to smile and ask the right questions; when to 
prod, and when to let go; when to talk, and when to sim-
ply listen. 

— Rachel Koh is a sophomore in Silliman College.
She is an associate editor of The New Journal.



**Title: GILDING THE GREEN**
**Author: Talia Schechet**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

“W
elcome to the Town Green 
District!” says Win Davis, Town 
Green Services’ Executive Director, sit-
ting against an office wall branded with the organization’s 
logo as he smiles mildly at the camera. “Let’s look at some 
of the meaningful ways that we make downtown New 
Haven a better place for everybody.” Shifting images fill 
the screen: a lamp-lit thoroughfare, a crowd gathered to 
watch a broadcast of the World Cup. Scenes of hardwork-
ing “downtown ambassadors” hanging potted plants and 
sweeping sidewalks alternate with testimonials from local 
officials and professionals. In one clip, a bridal shop owner 
stands before a rack of red and blush dresses.“Developing 
the neighborhood helps everybody,” she says.

Created in 1996 through a ballot referendum, the 
Town Green District encompasses an L-shaped twen-
ty-seven square-block area cradling its namesake, the New 
Haven Green. Town Green Services –– the organization 
that created and oversees the District –– aims “to improve 
ownership values by making Downtown New Haven an 
internationally competitive urban environment,” accord-
ing to its mission statement. A private organization with 
paid professional staff, Town Green Services collected 
$1.3 million last year from surtaxes placed on New Haven 
businesses, but it also receives annual contributions from 
Yale and the City of New Haven, who contributed $140 
thousand and $50 thousand in 2017, respectively. These 
funds are used for cleanup and beautification initiatives, 
events, marketing, and the salaries of downtown ambassa-
dors: representatives who patrol Downtown in blue and 
yellow jackets.

These ambassadors share office space with the New 
Haven Police Department, but they don’t have the author-
ity to enforce law. Instead, they contact officers-on-duty 
about “quality of life infractions,” which include public 
intoxication and “aggressive panhandling.” In our inter-
view, Davis tells viewers that contacting police officers 
helps the ambassadors respond to issues downtown. “But,” 
he continues, “it also helps us, because people know that 
when we make a call on our radio or on our telephone, 
action will come of it.”

 Quality of life violations also include behaviors like uri-
nation and defecation. Locals experiencing homelessness 
once had access to public bathrooms on the Green, but 
Town Green Services had them removed, claiming the 
bathrooms sheltered drug deals and prostitution. Home-
less individuals may now use only public bathrooms in the 
public library and City Hall –– when they’re open –– or 
else gain access to business bathrooms, lest they incur a 
fine by relieving themselves in public. Under a 2015 col-
laboration between the city police and Town Green Ser-
vices called Project Green Thumb, indigent people cited 
for quality-of-life infractions were enrolled to clean and 
beautify the District in lieu of paying a fine.



**Title: POINT OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Talia Schechet**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“cling bins.”
But Town Green Services is trying to reduce panhandling. Each of its last four annual reports touts statistics of 
“panhandling interventions”: in the 2017 annual report, 
that number is 6,791, a 55 percent increase from 2016. 
During our interview, Davis delineated two types of panhandlers: “passive” and “aggressive.” He describes “passive 
panhandlers” as solicitors sitting or standing by storefronts. 
In the District, they must receive permission from shopkeepers before soliciting money in front of businesses. 
If they don’t have permission, ambassadors ask them to 
move. Meanwhile, Davis defines “aggressive panhandlers” as people soliciting money who “refuse to take no 
for an answer” or make physical contact with pedestrians, 
and “make you feel so uncomfortable that all of a sudden 
it feels like nothing to pull a dollar out of your pocket just 
to get that person away from you.” When encountering 
such solicitors, ambassadors are instructed to give warning 
before calling the police, sometimes even following solicitors so the police can find them. 
 “The ambassadors are snitches,” said a former machinist who has been homeless for four years, waiting in line 
for lunch on a Sunday outside Trinity Church on the 
Green. He said that ambassadors contact the police even 
when they find people sleeping on the Green. While 
ambassadors may intend to connect people sleeping 
outside to shelter, the former machinist, who wished to 
remain anonymous, sounded frustrated by these encounters. Town Green Services’ mission to make the downtown 
area prosperous may work at the expense of community 
members experiencing homelessness, who often cannot 
patronize the businesses the District was created, in part, 
to support. “If you’re homeless,” said a disabled former 
carpenter after collecting parcels of food, “you’re looked 
down upon, no matter your circumstances.” Despite Win 
Davis’s greeting, not everyone feels welcome around the 
Green.
Services abandoned the initiative when the supervising 
officer was reassigned.


Though the organizations’ main constituents are its 
surtax-paying business owners, Davis, born and raised in 
New Haven, affirms it benefits all locals. He recalls the 
mid-nineties, which preceded Town Green’s conception, 
as a “real tough time for New Haven,” citing gang violence 
on Chapel Street and low property values. In addition to 
“stabilizing” downtown, Davis claims, the Town Green 
District relieves low-income residential neighborhoods of 
tax burden because it comprises a disproportionate 12 percent of New Haven’s tax income –– a number he hopes 
will rise. “As this neighborhood goes,” he intoned, “so go 
the rest of the city and the residential neighborhoods.”


Not everyone agrees with Davis. Laura Barraclough, 
a professor of American Studies at Yale, rejects Town 
Greens Services’ everyone-wins mantra. “Simply suggesting that increased growth in the downtown area is going 
to benefit everyone is inaccurate,” she said, noting that 
money generated by wealthier neighborhoods tends to be 
reinvested there. 


Although Barraclough acknowledges that Town Green 
is partially a symptom of underfunded municipal governments, she situates it within a troubling trend guided by 
neoliberalism.  Since the seventies, she said, there has 
been a growing belief that urban governments are neither 
efficient nor effective and that “the private sector could do 
better.” As private organizations driven by economic interest take over functions traditionally carried out by the city, 
Barraclough said, marginalized people, including those 
experiencing homelessness, are harassed, criminalized, 
and driven out of public spaces. 


Business owners and managers in the Town Green 
District have different ideas about how to treat members of these populations, many of whom solicit money 
in and around their stores. Leila Crockett, who manages 
the employee-owned Artist & Craftsman Supply store on 
east Chapel Street, said she thinks addressing solicitors 
should involve “providing housing, for a start, for people 
who don’t have a place to live, services for people who 
don’t have enough to eat, services for people who have 
addiction issues.” She acknowledges that “panhandling 
makes some people really uncomfortable,” but advocates 
a compassionate approach to interacting with solicitors. 
“My advice is to treat people who are panhandling like 
any other person,” she said. “It generally doesn’t bother 
me, as long as people are polite.”


Munaza Ali, who has managed Pitaziki Mediterranean 
Grill since it opened in 2014, thinks Town Green Services 
isn’t doing enough to monitor panhandling. “Homeless 
people walk into my store every day and panhandle,” she 
said, seated in the restaurant on a Thursday night. “The 
only changes I’ve seen [made by Town Green] are recy-
— Talia Schechet is a junior 
in Saybrook College.



**Title: I (ALMOST) GOT CLOBBERED BY YOUR MOM**
**Author: Jacob Sweet**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Connecticut’s roller derby community bashes heads and bucks gender norms.
Jacob Sweet
Krazy Legz Nikki is barreling down a flat track 
in quad skates, looking for Your Mom. Your 
Mom, a blocker, has a decision to make: she can 
either help Legz, her jammer, carve through a glut of 
skate-wearing women, or she can get in the way of the 
opposing jammer, Sass Squash. To make it through 
unscathed, Legz will have to “dance by” Lehigh Valley’s 
blockers using the precise footwork she’s been practicing 
since 2012. Or she can just barrel right through.
“We prefer just running people over, in all honesty,” 
Legz admits after the bout. 
I drive to the Connecticut Roller Derby Travel Team 
Double-Header (one match between the CT All-Stars 
and Lehigh Valley, the other between the CT Yankee 
Brutals and Shoreline Bella Donnas), fully expecting 
to be one of maybe thirty or forty spectators. But when 
I arrive at the Insports Center in Trumbull, Connecticut, the parking lot is full, and I am forced into parking 
behind a caravan of cars down the street. After ten minutes waiting in line for a ticket, I am greeted by a maple 
hardwood floor the size of three basketball courts, two 
commentators, an elaborate sound system, and a projection screen displaying the score. Dozens of vendors line 
the gym and hundreds of people—from grandchildren 
to grandparents—sit around the track in home-brought 
portable chairs brought from home. I didn’t realize this 
was BYOC.
I sit close to the track in an area called “The Danger 
Zone.” You must be eighteen to sit here because there’s 
a possibility that one of the roller girls will careen off the 
track and crush you and your ice-cold Coors Lite. Before 
I have time to evaluate the risk of my seating location, 
the buzzer sounds and the bout begins. Eight women, 
all wearing skates, knee pads, elbow pads, and helmets, 
begin bodying each other for position. Two skaters, one 
from each team, fly around the back straightaway. The 
crowd rumbles in their portable chairs. Perhaps this is 
not such a niche sport after all. 	
In 1935, roller derby was basically a cross country 
endurance race. Teams of two would circle around a 
banked track over and over, covering three thousand 
miles in total, approximately the distance from New 
York City to Los Angeles. After realizing crowds enjoyed 
the collisions more than the skating, Leo Seltzer, the 
sport’s founder, tweaked the game to add more physical 
contact. It took off.  By 1949, the National Roller Derby 
playoffs sold out Madison Square Garden for an entire 
week, and the sport was broadcast on CBS. When that 
contract expired, ABC started televising games. But by 
the early nineteen-seventies, the sport sputtered out. The 
1973 oil crisis made it prohibitively expensive for teams 
to travel, and the Roller Games’ International Skating 
Conference’s uncompetitive, circus-like approach to the 
game turned off fans. 
In 2000, Daniel Eduardo Policarpo, also known as 
“Devil Dan,” attempted to re-ignite the sport as an all-
women roller derby-themed spectacle with winners 
selected before the match. After a highly suspect logistical meeting in a bar, the recruited women decided to 
ditch Dan and form their own organization: Bad Girl 
Good Woman Productions. They changed the rules and 
formed a league. Winners would no longer be pre-ordained. Now it wasn’t just a show; it was a competition. 
And it wasn’t “women’s roller derby” –– it was just roller 
derby. (Men’s derby exists, but it’s not nearly as popular. 
For men, there’s a wider range of highly physical, competitive outlets to choose from. Roller Derby is also one 
of the only sports that allow trans athletes to compete 
as women without undergoing hormone therapy, distinguishing it from any Olympic event.) The sport continues to grow in popularity. In 2006, the CT Roller Derby 
began with about fifteen skaters. Now they have about 
sixty-five. 
“We have moms, we have younger women, we have 
older women, we have cis women, we have trans women,” 
Your Mom, also known as Nolan Smith, tells me. “We 
have every race and age you could think of. Everybody 
has a home here.”
Roller derby consists of two thirty-minute halves, each 
broken up into two-minute sections called jams. Each 
team plays with five athletes at a time, and there are two 
main positions: jammer and blocker. The jammer’s goal 
is to score, which she does by weaving through a horde 
of blockers and lapping members of the opposing team. 
Blockers, four on each squad, play offense and defense at 
the same time. They help their jammer get through the 
pack and prevent the other team’s jammer from doing 
the same. At the end of each jam, new jammers and 
blockers switch onto the track.
The game shifts between fast and slow. All-Star jammer Black Cherry weaves, hops, and sprints through 
small holes in the Lehigh Valley defense. Legz looks for 
an opening and pile-drives through. At times, the jammer gets stuck behind a wall of opposing blockers. When 
Black Cherry hops over a defender’s outstretched leg, the 
crowd cheers. 
About ten years ago, the sport was high-speed and 
punk-rock. Players drank beer before matches, wore fishnet tights, and pummeled each other. Roller Derby was 
little more than flying around the track and laying hits. 
Derby names –– Your Mom, Krazy Legz Nikki, Puke 
Skywalker –– are a carryover from this campy era. 
“For a long time it was just skate fast, turn left,” Smith 
says. “It was never a show, it was never pretend … but 
over time it’s changed from a game where people go as 
fast as they can to a game with strategies and formations.”
Today, players treat the game more seriously. The CT 
All-Stars practice three days a week, two hours each day. 
They practice formations and watch tape. Athletes on the 
All-Stars are also expected to cross-train outside of practice –– weight lifting, running, core workouts. If you’re 
not strong, you’re more likely to sprain an ankle, break 
a clavicle, or tear an ACL. Almost every athlete I talk 
to, from Scorin’ Kierkegaard to Midwife Crisis, has an 
injury story; during the match, I notice All-Star Captain 
Puke Skywalker standing on the sideline with a walker. 
The bout ends with a score of 287–153, a convincing 
All-Star win. But they’re not done for the day. After they 
change out of their game uniforms, they’ve got other jobs 
to do. Some coach the B-team, the Yankee Brutals. Others walk around the court selling raffle tickets to keep the 
nonprofit club afloat. Players, refs, coaches, announcers, 
and staff are all volunteers. 
Holding a jug of 50/50 raffle tickets amidst the noisy 
crowd, Krazy Legz Nikki finds some time to talk. “So 
you’re gonna write about how awesome we are? On and 
off the track? Should I put my hair down and try to fluff it 
up? Don’t mention the sweat—or the pops and bruises.” 
She points out a welt on her shoulder that seems to 
become darker each minute I talk to her. “This one’s 
gonna be good if you want a picture of that.”
illustration by julia hedges
— Jacob Sweet is a senior 
in Grace Hopper College.



**Title: A VOCAL REVIVAL**
**Author: Katherine Hu**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As the golden sun begins to tumble down the 
horizon, the Native American Cultural Center, or 
NACC, comes to life. The lights in the conference 
room buzz on, illuminating wooden tables accented with a 
dotting of pastel chairs: sky blue, lavender, mint. It’s Mon-
day night, and I’m attending a class in Lakȟóta, a Native 
American language spoken by around two thousand people 
in North and South Dakota. 

There are five students in class tonight. While each 
belongs to the Lakȟóta nation, they represent three differ-
ent tribes. Bobby Pourier, Jacob Rosales, and Marlee Kelly 
are Oglála Lakȟóta and attended Red Cloud Indian School 
on the Pine Ridge Reservation together. Chase Warren is 
Húŋkpapȟa Lakȟóta, and Luta Fast Dog is Sicangu Lakȟóta. 
They filter in slowly, cupping freshly steeped tea from the 
kitchen and snacks from their dorm rooms. Each finds a 
seat near the TV, where Nacole Walker, a Lakȟóta language 
instructor at Sitting Bull College in North Dakota, Skypes 
in. The students prop open laptops and set down stuffed 
animals: a llama, jackrabbit, and small metal frog, part of 
today’s lesson on postpositions. Unlike English, Lakȟóta 
uses postpositions rather than prepositions, placing words 
after a noun to indicate its relative location. 

“I didn’t have a plush toy!” Pourier protests, wielding his 
metal frog for the camera. The room bubbles with laughter. 
As class commences, seriousness settles in, interspersed 
with wide-grinned laughter. Walker prompts each student 
by name, asking them to describe the relative locations of 
their stuffed animals. 

In many ways, this class is like any other language semi-
nar at Yale. Each student has a reference text open on-screen 
(the New Lakota Dictionary). Their laptops are decorated 
with stickers (“Yale Native,” “Mahalo Ke Akua,” and “Blue 
State Coffee”). But there’s one notable difference: even 
though these students meet twice a week for an hour each 
time and are assigned homework, as they do in other Yale 
classes, they aren’t receiving course credit. 

“Tokša akhé waŋčhíyaŋkiŋ kte,” the five chant in unison, 
as Walker waves goodbye. In English, it means, “I will see 
you later.” 

While only a handful of universities like the University of 
Oklahoma, University of North Dakota, and University of 
South Dakota offer indigenous language courses for credit, 
universities around the country are shifting towards doing 
so. Peer institutions like Stanford and Dartmouth both 
offer Native American Studies majors and a wide selection 
of courses on Native American history. The University of 
Pennsylvania plans to offer Cherokee language classes soon, 
and hopes to expand to other Native American languages 
that can fulfill the four-semester Penn Language Require-
ment, per the Daily Pennsylvanian. 

The Yale NACC’s Native American Language Project, 
founded in 2015, offers seven courses: three intermediate 
classes in Cherokee, Choctaw, and Native Hawaiian, and 
four elementary classes in Lakȟóta, Mohawk, Navajo, and 
Ojibwe, including the class I’m sitting in today. But unlike 
its peers, Yale treats these rigorous seminars more like extra-
curriculars than coursework. Taking Lakȟóta doesn’t get a 
student any closer to a Yale degree, even though, as Walker 
explains to me, she teaches her students with the curricu-
lum she uses at Sitting Bull.

In the United States, 150 to 170 indigenous languages 
remain, remembered primarily by tribal elders due to years 
of targeted assimilation policies by the federal government. 
From 1869 to the mid-twentieth century, Native American 
children around the country were sent to government board-
ing schools meant to “civilize” them. At school, students 
were abused for speaking their indigenous languages, taught 
to reject their culture. Hoping to spare their descendants 
the same ordeal, many chose not to teach the languages to 
their children, who, in turn, have found themselves unable 
to pass the knowledge along. 

As Pourier explained to me, “My great-grandmother went 
to a boarding school where she was routinely beaten, and 
had her mouth washed out with soap if she spoke Lakȟóta. 
As a girl, she decided never to speak the language or pass 
it down to her children so they wouldn’t suffer the same 
abuse. No one in the family spoke Lakȟóta out of fear of 
persecution.”

First-year student Gabriella Blatt, a member of the Chip-
pewa-Cree Tribe in Montana and my suitemate, has a simi-
lar story. Back home on the Rocky Boy Indian Reservation, 
less than twenty of the five thousand residents are fluent in 
Cree. Her mother can’t speak the language, and it wasn’t 
until her grandmother’s dying breath that Blatt heard her 
speak Cree for the first time. For students like Blatt and 
Pourier, the stakes are high: if their generation does not 
learn the languages of the elders, these languages will van-
ish entirely. And language is more than just a way to com-
municate –– for Native Americans and indigenous peoples, 
language is inseparable from culture, Pourier says.

“I have to reintroduce myself to my own culture. As a 
colonized person I can’t understand traditional ceremonies. 
Because I don’t understand the language, I can’t under-
stand it on a spiritual level,” he explains.

Currently, tribes across the United States are working 
diligently to revive their languages. Pourier’s reservation 
school is in its fifth year of operating a language immersion 
program that runs from pre-K through the twelfth grade. 
Soon, they will graduate their first students who are fully 
fluent in Lakȟóta. The question is whether the value of such 
bilingualism will be recognized by institutions like Yale.

Prominently displayed on a shelf in the NACC’s upstairs 
living room is “A Party Game for Indigenant Peoples,” 
known as Cards Against Colonialism. Its battered red box 
is lovingly frayed around the edges, and rests beside a pris-
tine edition of Cards Against Humanity, its fraternal twin. 
It’s easy to tell which one is more popular on game night. 
Next to the card games rests a whiteboard covered in the 
languages of the NACC community, from Cree to Lakȟóta, 
Navajo to Mohawk, Chinese to German. 

While many indigenous students are taking languages 
like Chinese and German to fulfill their language require-
ment, it’s often not their first choice. First-year Madeleine 
Freeman, who is both Choctaw and Chickasaw, studied 
Turkish from the fourth to the tenth grade and will continue 
to take it at Yale to fulfill her language requirement. How-
ever, she says that she would switch to Choctaw in a heart-
beat. She explains that one of the reasons she chose Yale 
was because Choctaw is taught here, and she was unaware 
that she wouldn’t receive credit. Until the rules change, 
she’ll continue to take informal classes through the NALP.

“Choctaw is mine, there’s a personal connection to it,” 
Freeman explains. “It’s a language that needs people to 
speak it, and it’s my duty to speak this language. There’s 
something deeper within myself that I don’t get aside from 
speaking Choctaw.”

Yale offers a smorgasbord of languages for students 
to pick and choose from in its Blue Book, which lists its 
official course offerings for each year. This includes more 
popular courses such as Spanish, French, and Chinese, 
and less highly enrolled languages such as Bosnian-Croa-
tian-Serbian, Coptic, Kiswahili, Sanskrit, Yoruba, and Zulu, 
all of which grant language credit. Yale gets creative in 
order to provide the latter group of languages. Bosnian-Cro-
atian-Serbian, per its course description in Blue Book, is 
taught using distance learning. That entails videoconfer-
encing in a teacher from Columbia University, much like 
how Walker Skypes in to the NACC conference room twice 
a week. 

While Yale has never offered an indigenous or Native 
American language class for credit, it offers support through 
Directed Independent Language Study, or DILS, a program 
that allows students to study languages that Yale doesn’t 
offer. Students can’t get course credit through DILS, but 
they can receive sessions with a language partner twice 
a week and advice from staff at the Center for Language 
Study, or CLS. In the past, DILS has supported students 
interested in learning Choctaw, Inupiaq, Lak Lakȟóta, 
Navajo, Salish, and Tohono O’odham, according to Nelleke 
Van Deusen-School, Director of CLS. While many indige-
nous students opt to take classes through the NALP instead 
because it offers an actual class structure, high demand 
through DILS can bolster petitions for an official language 
class to be offered through Yale. This spring, Yale piloted an 
American Sign Language course in part due to the fact that 
117 students enrolled in its DILS offering over an eight-year 
period.

Getting a language recognized at Yale is no small task. 




**Title: The Fight for Native American Languages at Yale**
**Author: Katherine Hu**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The process begins when CLS considers a proposal and 
consults with the department that would offer the language. 
Next, CLS assesses demand and requests resources from the 
Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean’s Office. If resources are 
approved, the Course of Study Committee approves individ-
ual pilot courses so that Yale can see if they can offer enough 
levels in the language to fulfill the language requirement. 
The full program then goes before a vote of Yale College 
faculty, completing the process.


Currently, students within the NACC are actively peti-
tioning CLS for language classes, continuing efforts from 
years past. While faculty members in the department were 
hesitant to comment on the issue, Vee Cangiano, Coordi-
nator of DILS, cites the relatively low demand. According to 
Cangiano, the number of students taking ASL over the last 
eight years was “two to three times the demand for all Native 
American languages combined.” 


Another concern expressed by administrators is the 
dearth of college-level textbooks and curriculum for indige-
nous languages. Organizations such as the Lakota Language 
Consortium, or LLC, are working to address this issue. LLC 
is a nonprofit working to revitalize the Lakȟóta language 
through writing textbooks, producing curricula, and offer-
ing summer immersion programs. They have helped uni-
versities like the Universities of North and South Dakota set 
up their Lakȟóta language departments and are reworking a 
textbook for the postsecondary level. 


“It’s an American value to give everyone the right to 
decide for themselves, but this right was never given to 
Native Americans,” said Wilhelm Meya, Chairman of the 
Lakota Language Consortium. “They were here before 
the Europeans and had over five hundred languages spo-
ken alongside histories, cultures, and prayers that were all 
embedded within their languages. Nearly a hundred years 
of institutionalized policies forced them to conform to 
English. No one is going to deny the power and utility of 
English, but you can’t take away the right to their indige-
nous language from them.”


For some indigenous students, the university’s failure to 
grant credit for Native languages adds insult to injury: many 
of them come from under-resourced schools that can’t offer 
foreign language classes. On the Rocky Boy Indian Reser-
vation, Blatt says, her high school only had ten teachers 
spread over 120 high school students. As such, there weren’t 
enough teachers for her high school to offer foreign lan-
guage courses. Pourier says that while indigenous students 
are “anything but a single story,” those who grew up on res-
ervations often deal with culture shock alongside the usual 
demands made of Yale students. As a result of centuries of 
colonial policies enacted by the U.S. government, Native 
American communities are some of the poorest in the 
nation –– Pine Ridge Reservation has an 80 percent unem-
ployment rate, according to Al-Jazeera.


Unlike Pourier, Blatt didn’t start self-studying her native 
language, Cree, until getting to Yale. As she sits cross-legged 
on the wine-colored armchair in our common room, she 
explains that her mother attended an Indian boarding 
school with the mantra “Kill the Indian, Save the Man.” As 
such, her mother was hesitant when Gabriella began join 
Facebook groups like “Cree Simon Says,” which offers one 
hour lessons each day through Facebook Live. 


“On the reservation, I was surrounded by my culture,” 
Blatt said. “Coming here made me realize how important 
it is to hold onto what I have. My culture is dying, and my 
refusal to learn something as simple as the language is a 
contribution to the death of it,” she explains. 


Later that night, under the chandeliers of the Branford 
dining hall, Pourier explains to me that in the Lakȟóta 
nation, they don’t refer to it as “learning” their language. 
Rather, they call it “remembering.” He explains that mem-
bers of his tribe see the language as part of their spirit, built 
into their genetic code. Speaking is merely the body catch-
ing up, remembering what has been lost.


He sits up, gesturing across the table at Rosales. “When-
ever I speak Lakȟóta, it’s my spirit speaking to Jacob’s spirit. 
Whenever I speak English, it’s my body speaking to Jacob’s 
body. The ancestors’ spirits back home hear us, and they 
know we are out here.” He smiles, tugging on the strings of 
his pink hoodie. “They know that we are not lost. Whenever 
we speak Lakȟóta, it’s as if we are home.”

“Coming here made me realize how 
important it is to hold onto what I have. 
My culture is dying, and my refusal to 
learn something as simple as the lan-
guage is a contribution to the death of 
it,” Blatt said.

“It’s an American value to give every-
one the right to decide for themselves, 
but this right was never given to Native 
Americans,” said Wilhelm Meya, Chair-
man of the Lakota Language Consortium.
— Katherine Hu is a first-year
 in Ezra Stiles College
APRIL 2018


**Title: The Music at the Margins**
**Author: Amanda Thomas**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

he Saybrook Underbrook, a performance space 
in the basement of the college, is unusually packed. 
The crowd spills over from rows of chairs and onto 
the stairs. They’re all waiting for New York Times-featured 
saxophonist Steve Wilson featured with his pianist and friend 
Pete Malinverni. Whispers of anticipation fill the room as the 
performers explain that they will play whatever music speaks 
to them. Malinverni’s feet zealously tap to the beat as his fin-
gers dance around the keys. Wilson carries the rhythm, hold-
ing a prolonged brassy note with impeccable breath control. 
Malinverni jumps from one end of the keys to the next in a 
jumble of complex notes. A woman in the front row is smiling, 
wide-eyed, nodding, entranced by the music, the rhythm and 
energy of the performers. A few rows behind her, a man sits 
with closed eyes, tapping his feet along. This is happening on 
a Saturday night for the annual Yale Jazz Festival, organized 
by student members of the Yale Undergraduate Jazz Collec-
tive — and all in the name of jazz.


The Collective, a nine-member group of undergraduates, 
also brings established jazz musicians like E.J. Strickland and 
Nicholas Payton to Yale for free concerts, hosts jam sessions, 
organizes master classes, and plans the annual three-day Fes-
tival. But despite all it does, the group survives on grants from 
the Dean of Arts and Saybrook College, with no guarantee 
that the funding will continue next year.  	


Founded in 2012, the Undergraduate Jazz Collective has 
become key for students at Yale interested in jazz. When soph-
omore Hersh Gupta arrived at Yale, he had been playing sax-
ophone seriously for years and was excited to play with other 
like-minded musicians. This year, however, only two faculty 
members specialize in the genre, and the School of Music 
offers only two academic courses on jazz. There are only three 
jazz combos, one ensemble, and no private instruction in jazz 
performance. The audience at the Collective’s events spills 
out the door; someone sitting in the crowd might not know 
that these students are going it alone.


n 2015, when the building that houses the ensemble prac-
tice room was closed for renovation, the group’s director 
decided to cease operations for the following year. Frustra-
tion among Yale students boiled over, and word of the contro-
versy spread beyond campus borders: the New York Times pub-
lished an article about the Collective’s dissatisfaction with the 
university’s efforts to teach jazz studies. Dean Robert Blocker, 
Dean of the School of Music, told the Times, “We train peo-
ple in the Western canon and new music,” suggesting that the 
university had space for classical music but not jazz. Blocker 
continued by saying that he was interested in hiring a saxo-
phone teacher, but only if they could teach the classic reper-
tory as well. Yale’s classical music bias is evident in its faculty, 
which is primarily composed of classically-trained musicians, 
and includes degree programs that offer instruction in clas-
sical, chamber and baroque music, but not an official jazz 
studies program.


In July 2016, after the article, Blocker announced on the 
Yale School of Music’s website that the School of Music had 
been offered “an anonymous gift… to continue and expand 
its legacy of jazz studies at Yale.” Out of that gift came the 
Yale Jazz Initiative, a commitment by the School of Music 
to expand the legacy of jazz at Yale. The initiative involved 
bringing in musicians like Grammy-winning saxophonist 
Wayne Escoffery for jazz improv lessons, and opening the
illustration by felicia chang

Yale Jazz Ensemble to all Yale students –– not just under-
graduates. But Yale has a long way to go in order to rival peer 
institutions like Harvard, Princeton, and Columbia. Harvard 
has two eighteen-piece ensembles and brings in jazz mas-
ters-in-residence every spring –– this semester, it’s three-time 
Grammy winning Angelique Kidjo. Princeton offers a Certif-
icate in Jazz Studies which requires four jazz courses, partic-
ipation in one of the faculty-led jazz ensembles, and a recital 
performance. Columbia has eight jazz ensembles, including 
a group specializing in Afro-Cuban and Brazilian jazz, and 
it offers thirteen different private jazz instruction courses 
ranging from jazz piano to jazz vibraphone. The Columbia’s 
Music Department’s jazz section boasts the Louis Armstrong 
Jazz Performance program, the Columbia Jazz Composers 
Collective Recording Series, a Jazz Studies Special Con-
centration, and a Jazz House where students “live and jam 
together.” Yale’s website offers a list of members, a schedule 
of events, FAQ and a mostly dormant livestream broadcasting 
performances and sometimes rehearsals. 


Sophomore Nicholas Serrambana, President of the Col-
lective, is an African American Studies major with a music 
concentration. In his view, the lack of institutional support 
for jazz at Yale demonstrates a problem with the university’s 
values. “There is the issue of representation and the canon, 
and a major controversy is that the School of Music made 
a statement saying, ‘Look, we’re only interested in classical 
music and music of the western canon,’” Nicholas says. “Jazz 
is something that people consider quintessentially American. 
It’s interesting [that] that’s something that Yale’s not proud of.”


Daphne Brooks agrees. A professor in African American 
Studies, American Studies, Theater Studies and Women’s, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies, Brooks teaches classes focused 
on jazz and co-leads the Black Sound and the Archive Work-
ing Group, a two-year initiative led by a group that focuses 
on researching and archiving the history and significance 
of African American sonic practices. She aims to facilitate 
more communication between the African American Studies 
department and the Yale School of Music to create a struc-
tured curriculum. “African Americans [have used] music as 
a way to archive their history when they didn’t have access to 
erecting their own institutional archives,” Brooks says. “The 
music was the thing we can use to document our hereness, as 
well as our past, as well our futurity.”


The Yale Jazz Initiative will end in Fall 2019, but the Col-
lective hopes to continue projects like the combo coaching 
program, which brought renowned musicians like saxophonist 
Wayne Escoffery and bassist Jeff Fuller to work with the jazz 
combos. Despite the buzz that the Collective has created, it 
seems that the School of Music does not plan to take on any 
financial or logistical responsibility for its activities. Serram-
bana says that working with Dean of the Arts Kate Krier and 
the Black Sound and the Archive Working Group has been 
helpful, and that his own band has seen how the Collective 
has succeeded in increasing attendance and having more 
inclusive events. He thinks that whether it be through bring-
ing musicians to the Underbrook or putting on a festival, the 
Collective is doing worthwhile work in giving the Yale com-
munity the jazz music that they want to hear, and keeping the 
conversation going.


ne week before the Jazz Festival, the Ensemble holds 
a special joint rehearsal with the nearby Hamden 
Hall Country Day School’s jazz band. As the event 
begins, Melissa Hudson, the band’s smiling director, explains 
how grateful she is to collaborate with the ensemble. A B flat 
resounds through the room as woodwind and brass instru-
ments begin tuning. The notes they attempt mingle in the air 
with small conversation. The sounds eventually devolve into 
a clamor of instruments, then a pause for clarity –– and the 
music begins.  Gupta is focused, poised and secure,  sitting up 
front with the saxophone while Serrambana nods to the beat, 
plucking away in the bass section. Feet tap and eyes close as 
the bands play “Moanin,’” a jazz standard by drummer Art 
Blakey. A Hamden student shakily attempts a drum solo, and 
then watches, wide-eyed, as Yale student Colum O’Connor 
perfects it on his first try. Hudson walks around the room tak-
ing pictures with sheer awe on her face. The Jazz Ensemble 
displays the same soulful energy. It’s impossible to tell that 
some of its members are planning an entire weekend of jazz 
in their heads, and hoping for more.
— Amanda Thomas is a first-year 
in Saybrook College

“AFRICAN-AMERICANS USE MUSIC AS A WAY TO ARCHIVE THEIR HISTORY WHEN 
THEY DIDN’T HAVE ACCESS TO ERECTING THEIR  OWN  INSTITUTIONAL  ARCHIVES,” 
BROOKS SAYS. “THE MUSIC WAS THE THING WE CAN USE TO DOCUMENT OUR 
HERENESS, AS WELL AS OUR PAST, AS WELL OUR FUTURITY.”



**Title: THE SHIPPING NEWS**
**Author: Dimitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
THE SHIPPING NEWS
What will an expansion of the Port of New Haven mean for the workers 
down at the docks?
Dimitri Diagne
M
ichael Vasaturo leads me through maritime 
fog that covers the Port of New Haven one cool 
March morning. The cranes of the bulk freighter 
Cyrenaica G. loom in the blurry distance. As the short, 
gold-necklaced Vasaturo and I walk along the wharf of New 
Haven Terminal (NHT), the shipping company where he 
serves as executive director, he describes a project poised 
to change the future of the local shipping industry. “The 
biggest thing that’s going on right now is trying to dredge,” 
he tells me, referencing a joint initiative of the New Haven 
Port Authority, the Connecticut Port Authority, and the 
Army Corps of Engineers to deepen the shipping chan-
nel from thirty-five to at least forty feet. The managers of 
the Port’s seven other terminal companies share Vasaturo’s 
enthusiasm. In his large, dark office, Vasaturo tells me they 
all benefit if the port develops. “We all want dredging,” he 
says, as we look across the wharf. By ‘all,’ Vasaturo means 
his executive colleagues at the Port’s six other terminal 
companies, all of whom are involved in planning the devel-
opment. Less clear, at least in this conversation, are the 
wishes of the terminal employees, repairing machinery and 
loading trucks in the yard below.


The East Coast shipping industry is changing in step 
with a globalized world. Soon, a widened Panama Canal 
will give larger ships from East Asia access to East Coast 
ports like New York and Norfolk. As these shipping cen-
ters expand, “the smaller ships are going to get priced out,” 
Tommy Seda, a former tugboat mate at Gateway Termi-
nal, believes. But if these vessels can’t compete with larger 
boats at the region’s biggest terminals, Seda thinks there’s 
another option: “What better place to go than just good old 
New Haven, right down the street?”


S N A P S H O T
photos by vivek suri


---

 17
APRIL 2018
Seda’s comment captures New Haven’s position in a 
Northeastern industrial hierarchy. The city knows that it’s 
no New York, where, Vasaturo reflects, “there’s always ves-
sels in the port, because they supply all the big companies, 
all the Walmarts, the Targets, the fruit people.” But manag-
ers like Vasaturo and Evan Matthews, Director of the Con-
necticut Port Authority, want it to benefit from the same 
global trends that make New York prosper. New Haven will 
never be New York, but it can fill the regional niches its 
neighbor leaves vacant. “Once the channel gets deepened 
to forty feet, it’ll be on par with Providence, Boston,” Mat-
thews says over the phone. “It’ll be a deep-water port that’ll 
help all those companies compete with cargo.” 
The future of the port looks different from the ground. 
Cut off from the city by locked fences, security guards, rail-
road tracks, and I-95, this industrial ecosystem goes largely 
unnoticed. But on the distant eastern shore of the New 
Haven Harbor, a legion of terminals and tugboats form the 
fifty-third largest port in the U.S. Out of New Haven flow 
gravel and scrap metal, towering in one hundred-foot piles 
on Gateway Terminal’s property. Much more enters than 
leaves –– imports include seventy percent of Connecticut’s 
petroleum. “In terms of petroleum, New Haven may be 
one of the largest ports on the East Coast,” Vasaturo spec-
ulates, as we pass fields of circular white fuel tanks and 
sprawling pipe lattices.


Although the Port of New Haven fuels the city’s fifty 
thousand trade, transportation, and utilities jobs, it operates 
under particular and demanding labor rules. The erratic 
nature of shipping in a small port like New Haven requires 
many workers to structure their employment around irregu-
lar gigs. “It’s a pretty well-synchronized operation, because 
time is –– everything is –– about production,” Vasaturo 
says. There’s a lot of production at stake. Ninety percent 
of global trade is carried over the sea in bulk freighters, 
container ships, and tankers. At New Haven, unlike the 
constantly busy Port of New York, this trade comes in fits 
and starts. While petroleum is, according to Vasaturo, “a 
pretty regular business,” the arrival of ships carrying dry 
cargo is negotiated by agents of the terminal company and 
the shipping company, and based on local demand. “They 
were very busy with vessels last week, you know, unload-
ing steel,” Vasaturo says, pointing to an empty barge sitting 
one wharf over, at a terminal owned by NHT and leased 
by another company he declined to name for confidenti-
ality reasons. Until regional manufacturers run out of steel 
coil and the agents reconnect, no one knows when the next 
barge will arrive.


At the Port of New Haven, because of the unpredict-
able work cycle, terminals find ways to pay workers only 
when they’re needed. Vasaturo describes the composition 
of NHT’s workforce before the company left the dry cargo 
business. “There were the people that worked full time, 
what we call our terminal workers,” Vasaturo explains, “and 
they loaded trucks and managed the warehouse.” The neon-
clad men welding to loud rock music in a tool-crammed, 
tin-roofed shed at the base of the NHT wharf were terminal 
workers. “And then there were what you would call tradi-
tional stevedores, and they would only work when there 
were vessels.” When NHT handled dry cargo, they’d call 
in stevedores, the men responsible for getting cargo off the 
ships and onto the wharf, and pay them until the unloading 
was finished. Many of these workers belonged to the Inter-
national Longshoremen’s Association, the AFL-CIO union 
for stevedores working on the East Coast, from Canada 
to Puerto Rico. The ILA in New Haven disbanded in the 
mid-2000s, and all Port workers are currently non-union, 
full-time employees of the terminal companies. Full-time, 
however, doesn’t necessarily mean all the time.   


“I was used to it,” says Seda, who until 2017 was a full-
time employee of Gateway Terminal, of his intermittent 
work schedule. “But it’s hard when you have kids at home.” 
While Vasaturo works on the dry-land, business end of the 


THE ERRATIC NATURE OF 
SHIPPING REQUIRES MANY 
WORKERS TO STRUCTURE 
THEIR EMPLOYMENT AROUND 
IRREGULAR GIGS . “IT’S A 
PRETTY WELL-SYNCHRONIZED 
OPERATION, BECAUSE TIME 
IS — EVERYTHING IS — ABOUT 
PRODUCTION,” VASATURO
SAYS.

ALTHOUGH THE PORT OF NEW 
HAVEN FUELS THE CITY’S 
FIFTY THOUSAND TRADE, 
TRANSPORTATION, AND UTILITIES 
JOBS, IT OPERATES UNDER 
PARTICULAR AND DEMANDING 
LABOR RULES.



 18
industry, the tall, soft-spoken Seda has spent his life on the 
water. He came up “through the hawsepipe,” starting off as 
a volunteer deckhand at fourteen, learning on the job, and 
climbing his way up to officer. After years of captaining tall 
ships –– old commercial sailing vessels –– at New York’s 
South Street Seaport Museum, Seda moved to New Haven 
in 2013. For a year, he captained the schooner Quinnipiac, 
then docked at Long Wharf and owned by the educational 
nonprofit Schooner Inc.  
Seda was the last captain of the Quinnipiac before finan-
cial troubles forced Schooner Inc. to sell it off. Afterwards, 
he used some connections in the small maritime world 
to land a job at Gateway. Despite his captain’s rank, Seda 
started out as a deckhand on the Gateway tugs. Once he 
took some classes and got a towing license, he got promoted 
to mate. “The guys on the tugboats work a two-week long 
schedule, so they show up on the tug and live on the tug 
for two weeks,” he explains. They’d get paid during the two 
weeks on, but not during the two weeks off, during which 
Seda would travel with his wife and take part-time jobs in 
construction and ship maintenance. During his on-weeks, 
there was usually maintenance work to be done, even if no 
vessels were entering the harbor. “They’re steel tugs,” Seda 
says, “so all they want to do is rust. It’s a constant battle 
against rust.” It was only once “in a very blue moon” that 
there wasn’t enough work and Gateway would tell its tug 
workers, some of whom flew in from Florida or drove down 
from Maine, not to come in for their two-week shifts. 


Even given the weeks without pay, Seda is gracious to 
his former employer, telling me that Gateway tries to avoid 
leaving workers without jobs and provides full benefits. He 
describes New Haven’s shipping industry as a relatively 
prosperous, fraternal environment, largely free of conflict 
between workers and companies, despite the turbulence of 
the workforce. “[In] such a small industry, there’s plenty of 
work to go around, so there’s no need to be that competi-
tive,” Seda says.


Vasaturo describes collaboration at higher levels of the 
industry. “Everybody knows everybody,” he says of the 
terminal companies and managers. To Vasaturo, the ami-
cability comes from a shared desire to make the Port as 
regionally competitive and productive as possible. Dredg-
ing and other infrastructure projects, regardless of how they 
affect workers, may keep the port relevant as trade patterns 
change. 


Of the three ports in Connecticut –– New Haven, New 
London, and Bridgeport –– New Haven is the only one that 
is neither diminutive nor in a state of decline. The incon-
sistency and infrastructure requirements of the shipping 
industry have taken a toll. “There used to be a stevedoring 
terminal in Bridgeport,” Vasaturo tells me frankly, “but it’s 
not open for stevedoring anymore.” New Haven has seen 
some trouble, too. NHT went bankrupt in 1994, and sub-
sequently abandoned dry cargo shipping. “When we came 
out of bankruptcy in 1996, we looked at the best way for our 
company to rebuild, and it was to lease out and not be the 
operator of the cargo business,” Vasaturo says.


Matthews, the Port Authority Director, hopes to 
strengthen New Haven’s dry cargo business, and in the pro-
cess reduce the number of trucks leaving the Port of New 
York and crowding the I-95 on their way to Connecticut.  
The Port Authority is currently battling the Connecticut 
Department of Transportation over some parcels of land 
on the Port grounds, and if they win this extra space, he 
may want to add specialized terminals to handle contain-

SEDA THINKS THERE’S 
ANOTHER OPTION: “WHAT 
BETTER PLACE TO GO THAN 
JUST GOOD OLD NEW 
HAVEN, RIGHT DOWN THE 
STREET?”



**Title: The Port of New Haven**
**Author: Dimitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
enough work to do and enough jobs to go around. This 
work’s dispersal in two-week intervals may just be the way 
it is, an inevitable condition of the shipping industry in 
New Haven. That said, Seda’s stakes in the matter have 
changed. Since leaving Gateway, he’s been working for the 
Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental 
Protection as a research vessel captain.


Vasaturo doesn’t discuss dredging in terms of labor, but 
instead imagines the Port becoming, bigger, more profit-
able, more like New York. “It’s going to give more oppor-
tunities,” he says. Anticipation aside, he doesn’t seem con-
cerned about the Port’s present state. “It’s a fun industry,” 
he tells me, as we stand at his office window. Vasaturo 
points down to a small shed in the terminal yard. “That 
little white building is where our hourly workers congre-
gate, and their time cards are in there, so I can really see 
everything from here,” he says. Mixed with the whirr of 
machinery and beeps of trucks in reverse, rock music floats 
in through the glass. 


ers. Processing these huge metal boxes relies heavily on 
automation, which Matthews sees as essential. “I would say 
it definitely absolutely has to occur,” he tells me, “because 
the rest of the world is automating its terminals.” In an 
automated port, “instead of being out driving equipment,” 
Matthews explains, “you’re sitting in front of a computer 
screen and you’re operating three cranes at once as opposed 
to one.”


What happens to the other two crane operators is unclear. 
Perhaps understandably, then, he’s faced opposition from 
the ILA, which has an active branch at the Port of New 
London. “The major frustration in the United States,” he 
says with audible irritation, “is that the ILA and the unions 
refuse to modernize, and all their competing ports across 
the world are modernizing.” Matthews’ duty as Port Author-
ity Director is to keep New Haven, and the other Connecti-
cut ports, competitive as the industry transforms. More 
ships hopefully mean more frequent employment. But at 
the administrative level, the lines connecting prosperity for 
the Port to prosperity for the workers have yet to be drawn.


When I ask Seda if he thinks the Port has a bright future, 
he seems mildly amused, and ponders for a moment. “I 
think so,” he replies. “I think compared to places like 
Bridgeport, it’s better off.” He believes its survival doesn’t 
depend on dredging or other improvements. Without these 
changes, he assumes “it’ll kind of just stay the same,” with 
— Dimitri Diagne is a senior 
in Berkely College


**Title: Pointing Fingers**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 21**

“Y
ou’re about to get sued,” New Haven 
Board of Education member Darnell Goldson 
warned, swiveling his chair to the right and 
pointing at Ed Joyner, the Board’s President. Joyner stood, 
microphone in hand, as the crowd of community mem-
bers packing the auditorium of Beecher School looked 
on. He turned towards Goldson and leaned forward, 
his gold tie swinging to and fro, until their faces were a 
foot apart. “You know what? We can go to Bowen Field,” 
Joyner bellowed, referring to a local high school’s football 
field, “and have a duel. Oh, you scared? You scared?” He 
looked back towards the crowd: “I move to adjourn the 
meeting.” With that, New Haven’s school system entered 
a new, uncertain era.


On that evening last November, the Board had con-
vened to appoint the district’s next superintendent. It 
was the culmination of a yearlong search process that, at 
times, threatened to split the city apart. Two candidates 
remained: Pamela Brown, Chief of Elementary Schools 
in Fontana, CA, and Carol Birks, the Hartford Public 
Schools superintendent’s chief of staff. New Haven Mayor 
Toni Harp, who serves on the Board, supported Birks, as 
did her three appointees; the other three Board members 
backed Brown.


A week after the finalists were announced, sixty parents, 
teachers, and other residents signed a petition urging the 
Board not to hire Birks. A couple days later, before the 
meeting at Beecher School, organizers taped sheets of 
paper around the auditorium, listing a thousand names: 
an expanded petition against her. During the meeting, 
parents and students stood in solemn protest at the back of 
the auditorium, duct tape covering their mouths. At one 
point, when Goldson, a Birks supporter, began to defend 




**Title: New Haven's School Board Selects New Superintendent Amidst Controversy**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
his vote, the crowd broke into a chant: “Shame on you!” 
Despite the outcry, the vote went as expected: three votes 
for Brown, four for Birks. With the Board’s decision made, 
Birks started work this March.
What created such animus towards Birks? The answer, 
in part, has to do with charter schools. Unlike traditional 
public schools, which typically operate under the local 
Board of Education and follow state education laws, 
charter schools are operated by independent organiza-
tions that craft their own “charters,” or sets of standards; 
the charter must be renewed periodically by the local or 
state Board. While both traditional public schools and 
charter schools are publicly funded, charter schools can 
set their own curricula. Proponents argue that charter 
schools provide the flexibility to promote much-needed 
experimentation in the classroom. Skeptics view them as 
a threat to public school systems, contending that they 
encroach upon funding streams, weaken teachers’ unions, 
and elude accountability to local government. Some 
advocates of traditional public schools fear that charter 
schools’ end goal is to compete –– rather than collaborate 
–– with established school systems.
At a community forum in November, Birks expressed 
the most openness towards charter schools of the three 
final candidates. She argued for a collaborative approach, 
telling the audience, “We shouldn’t fight charter schools; 
we should learn from them.” A story in the New Haven 
Independent that highlighted the comment further dam-
aged Birks’ reputation. She had already been scrutinized 
for her past employment at two for-profit education con-
sulting firms and her membership of a charter school 
board in Hartford, according to Carlos Torre, who sat on 
the New Haven Board of Education for more than twen-
ty-two of the past twenty-four years until his term ended 
this January, and voted against Birks. (Birks could not be 
reached for comment.)
More broadly, detractors feared that Birks wouldn’t 
relate well to New Haven’s students. She had only three 
years of teaching experience, and stepped down after one 
year as principal of Harding High School in Bridgeport 
as the school struggled with poor test scores and high sus-
pension rates, then took a job with Global Partnership 
Schools, the management firm hired to turn the school 
around. On that November night at Beecher School, Jacob 
Spell and Makayla Dawkins, the Board’s two non-voting 
student representatives, presented a list of eight hundred 
signatures, collected from students at Hillhouse, Career, 
and Co-Op high schools, all in opposition to Birks. As 
the Board’s discussion devolved into jeers and interrup-
tions, Spell and Dawkins stood up from the table and left. 
They, like the student protesters in the back of the audito-
rium, had their mouths effectively taped shut. “It seemed 
so disempowering,” said Sarah Miller, a local education 
advocate whose two children attend New Haven public 
schools. “You bring in these candidates, you ask kids what 
they want, and then you ignore them.”
Now, New Haven’s schools are at a crossroads. What 
role will charter schools will play in the district, and what 
does their approach mean for students? Along with the 
sixty public schools run by the district, the city has seven 
charter schools that enroll 2,500 students –– close to 10 
percent of the district’s total student population. Three 
of New Haven’s most innovative schools –– two charter 
schools, Achievement First Amistad High School and 
Common Ground High School, and one magnet school, 
Metropolitan Business Academy –– are, in essence, 
playing tug-of-war with the district’s future. If one of the 
supposed benefits of charter schools is that they enable 
experimentation, this raises the question: What does edu-
cational innovation look like in practice? What are the 
benefits and pitfalls of granting schools individual auton-
omy? And is this same kind of innovation possible outside 
of charter schools? At the heart of these questions lie the 
district’s students: their future depends on the answers.


**Title: Climbing the Mountain**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

Climbing the Mountain
E
very morning in high school, Arese Uwuo-
ruya and Sebastian Quiñonez got up at 6 
a.m. and put on their uniforms: a white or 
light blue button down, khakis, a tie for Quiñonez. 
They walked into a building whose exterior –– white 
and light-blue tiles above khaki-colored stones –– 
matched their outfits, topped by a frieze depicting 
Black luminaries: Marian Wright Edelman, Maya 
Angelou, Thurgood Marshall. They went to Advisory 
–– similar to homeroom –– at the start and end of 
each day.
As the Board’s discussion devolved into jeers and 
interruptions, Spell and Dawkins stood up from the table 
and left. They, like the student protestors in the back of 
the auditorium, had their mouths effectively taped shut.

At Advisory on Thursday afternoons, Uwuoruya and 
Quiñonez received “paychecks”: scorecards document-
ing their behavior for the week. Merits were awarded for 
positive contributions to class: an insightful comment, a 
demonstration of creative thinking. Demerits were doled 
out for distracting or disrespectful behavior. On the pay-
check, points were added and subtracted from a base mark 
of one hundred. A well-behaved student might score close 
to two hundred, earning the privilege of attending school 
out of uniform that Friday. A disobedient student might 
receive a much lower score (say, –4) and would have to 
come to school in blue and khaki as usual.
Uwuoruya and Quiñonez attended Achievement First 
Amistad High School, a charter school located on Dixwell 
Avenue, before graduating in 2016. (Now, they are both 
sophomores at Yale). Achievement First is a “charter man-
agement organization,” or CMO: an umbrella nonprofit, 
operating a network of thirty-four charter schools. It runs 
five of the seven charter schools in New Haven, enroll-
ing a total of just over two thousand students. Every five 
years, the state Board of Education reviews and reautho-
rizes these schools. At a typical Achievement First school, 
over 98 percent of students are Black or Latinx, and over 
three-quarters qualify for free or reduced lunch.
The organization’s name is a proxy for its philosophy. 
Achievement is the guiding tenet of each school, and 
data the prism through which accomplishment is assessed 
and interpreted. “Behind every data point is a student, 
a family, a teacher,” the organization’s website reads. At 
Achievement First schools, teachers meet weekly with  a 
“coach,” typically their department’s dean, to review their 
lessons. These meetings revolve around metrics. “The 
data is what drives the decisions for kids,” said Fatimah 
Barker, Achievement First’s Chief External Officer, who 
has worked with the network as a teacher, principal, and 
administrator for over a decade. “Seventy to eighty per-
cent of the coaching meeting is about data.” Teachers 
administer standardized weekly quizzes to students at all 
thirty-four schools through a system called the Student 
Work Protocol, and students complete one- or two-ques-
tion “exit tickets” at the end of each class, providing the 
scores that fuel this achievement-based approach.
At Achievement First’s high schools, this rigor extends 
to the college application process. In all four grades, stu-
dents take a college-prep course, setting long-term goals, 
learning to write a college essay, and preparing for inter-
views. Teachers guide students through the Common 
Application and help low-income students with the Free 
Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). This sup-
port continues beyond each day’s final bell. When Uwuo-
ruya attended Amistad, the school provided brownies and 
chicken wings at after-school study sessions. Two years 
later, she still receives emails from a guidance counselor 
at Amistad about fellowships and job opportunities. Every 
year, the college acceptance rate for graduating Amistad 
seniors is 100 percent.
Amistad’s academic approach –– the emphasis on data 
in teacher evaluations, the curricular coordination across 
dozens of schools, the institutionalized support through-
out the college process –– is enabled by its status as a char-
ter school. Since teachers at charter schools aren’t union 
members, Amistad can create its own evaluation system. 
And Amistad has the autonomy to establish its own cur-
riculum, driven by data and devoted to preparing students 
for college.
Amistad’s charter school status provides other advan-
tages that may artificially bolster the school’s stellar scores. 
Though students are admitted through a blind lottery, 
Amistad doesn’t accept transfer students after October 1 
–– so, for instance, when the district admitted 250 Puerto 
Rican students displaced by Hurricane Maria last fall, 
most of whom require additional language support, they 
all entered non-charter public schools, according to Jason 
Bartlett, Mayor Harp’s Liaison to the Board of Education.
The hallways at Amistad are lined with banners embla-
zoned with inspirational slogans: “We have the hard-
est working students in Connecticut” and “We need to 
climb the mountain to college.” That second banner, to 
Quiñonez, was symbolic of a lifelong journey. His family 
immigrated to the United States from Ecuador when he 
was five years old; to support his parents, he often works at 
their restaurant, New Haven Salad Shop.
Quiñonez felt he benefited from his time at Amistad. 
But to him, the merit system was oppressive; time and 
time again, he got demerits for dropping his pencil in 
class. “The merit system can easily be distorted or hybrid-
ized into a paternal disciplinary action,” he said. “Every-
body hates the culture it creates. That’s why people are 
like, you’re going back to hell, you’re going back to jail.” 
Quiñonez said that although he was a straight-A student, 
he got two weeks of detention within the first month 
nearly every year at Amistad, forcing him to miss soccer 
practices and games. He was often pulled out of his classes 
for disciplinary proceedings.
At the heart of these questions lie 
the district’s students: their future 
depends on the answers.

The system permeated the school’s atmosphere. “It cre-
ated this weird culture of silence where we wouldn’t say 
anything in class to avoid getting demerits at the end of 
the week, rather than speaking up and becoming one of 
the kids the teachers had their eye on,” Uwuoruya said. “It 
felt ridiculous the way some kids were policed.” In May 
2016, during Uwuoruya and Quiñonez’s last semester, 
frustration with the system bubbled over as hundreds of 
Amistad students staged a schoolwide walkout to protest 
what they deemed a culture of racial insensitivity and a 
lack of faculty diversity.
Amistad responded by increasing recruitment of faculty 
of color and using internal surveys to ensure that faculty 
of color felt happy and supported. Asked whether the 
walkout led to changes in the merit system, administrators 
demurred. “The way we handle school culture, it’s not dis-
cipline on an island, it’s all the stuff that goes into making 
a school strong,” said Amanda Pinto, Achievement First’s 
Director of Communications. “That’s something that’s 
always evolving and changing.”
Like its curriculum, Amistad’s discipline system might 
only be possible to enact in a charter school. In the school 
year that followed the walkout, 25.5 percent of students 
at the three Amistad Academy schools received at least 
one in-school or out-of-school suspension, compared to 
6.9 percent of students in New Haven’s traditional pub-
lic schools. The merit system is shifting. Thirty-eight per-
cent of the faculty at Achievement First’s five New Haven 
schools are Black, Latinx, or multi-racial, and suspension 
rates have declined more than fifty percent in the last two 
years. Still, without intervention by the district, it took stu-
dent outcry to change this culture.
Many of Connecticut’s charter schools are standalone 
institutions. But Amistad, as one member of a larger, 
CMO-operated network, exerts a different kind of influ-
ence on New Haven’s public school system. Since the 
network’s first school was founded in 1999, Achievement 
First has expanded rapidly. To Mark Waxenberg, a former 
President of the Connecticut Educators’ Association, the 
state’s largest teacher’s union, who helped write Connect-
ictut’s charter school law in 1996, this expansion of char-
ter school networks poses a threat to traditional public 
schools. Charter management organizations are “trying to 
create a private system,” he alleged, “but have the public 
pay for it.”
In December 2014, six thousand people clad in neon 
shirts that read “For Every Child” flooded the New Haven 
Green. The rally, emceed by Ben Cruse, the principal of 
a Hartford Achievement First school, was organized by 
ConnCAN, a pro-charter lobbying organization. Speak-
ers urged the state to help the forty thousand students 
“trapped” in its “failing schools.” The rally kicked off an 
ad campaign by Families for Excellent Schools (FES), a 
New York-based pro-charter lobbying organization that 
shut down in February. In one commercial, a series of stu-
dents stare into the camera, praising their schools, before 
the screen cuts to black. “Forty thousand Connecticut stu-
dents would answer very differently,” the narrator reads, 
“trapped in schools where they don’t learn to read, write, 
or do math at grade level.” The ad cuts to a shot of a girl 
holding her mother’s hand, staring nervously up at the 
camera behind a set of iron bars.
The rally and ensuing campaign stoked fears among tra-
ditional public school advocates that charter school net-
works like Achievement First, with the backing of groups 
like ConnCAN, sought to create an alternative school 
system that would drive public schools out of existence. 
Today, Achievement First administrators deny this intent. 
“In my ideal world, we would be hand-in-hand with tra-
ditional public schools,” said Barker, the Chief External 
Officer, noting Achievement First’s open source curricu-
lum and its incubator program for aspiring public school 
administrators as two efforts to collaborate outside of the 
organization’s network. “There’s a ton of myths getting in 
the way of our partnership, thinking that we are here as 
a threat when we’re just here to serve communities that 
have been historically underserved.”
But to Waxenberg, charter school networks like 
Achievement First, with dozens of schools across the 
Northeast, have fundamentally deviated from the intent 
of the original Connecticut charter school law he helped 
write. “We wanted to create what we called ‘incubators of 
innovation,’” he said. “It was really to create a laboratory 
… within the public school structure to use to help reform 
public education across the state.” He feels that charter 
management organizations like Achievement First com-
pete with traditional public schools in Connecticut, and 
have shared their ideas only after forceful prodding.

After Connecticut’s charter law was established in 
“We wanted to create what we 
called ‘incubators of innovation.’”



**Title: An Uncommon Curriculum**
**Author:  [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 25
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
1997, a dozen charter schools opened their doors across 
the state. One of those, Common Ground High School, 
still runs in New Haven today. Unlike Amistad, which is 
part of the Achievement First network, it’s an indepen-
dent, standalone school. And while it, too, challenges 
established models of learning, it’s pushing students in 
a very different direction: outdoors, and into their com-
munity.


An Uncommon Curriculum
A
kieleh Zidbeck and Brian Chantre are designing a 
skyscraper. They envision a towering white struc-
ture with countless Chlorophytum comosa, or spi-
der plants, hanging off, their long, thin leaves sticking out 
every which way. Passersby will be able to pluck a plant 
right off and take it with them. “Then,” Zidbeck explains, 
“the whole world will know the benefit of spider plants.”


Right now, all Zidbeck and Chantre have is a tiny C. 
comosum in a white Chobani cup, but it’s the germ of a 
much larger idea. The pair are students in a course at 
Common Ground High School called the Senior Social 
Justice Experience. Zidbeck, who wears silver, undulat-
ing snake earrings and a wide smile, became interested 
in architecture after she took a course in sustainable 
design. The spider plants address an issue that’s affected 
her own life. “I grew up in a low-income community,” 
she explained. “A lot of kids had respiratory issues. These 
plants absorb particulates like xylene formaldehyde” — a 
toxin linked to upper respiratory tract infections. Zidbeck 
and Chantre have been spending hours in the school’s 
woodshop, finishing up a planter with three wooden bins 
for the C. comosa, to be placed in the hallway of one of 
Common Ground’s school buildings. The bins are tiered 
like a staircase, gesturing up towards something bigger.


Founded in 1997 by the New Haven Ecology Project 
as a place to promote environmental education, Com-
mon Ground and its two hundred students are bounded 
by a small farm at the base of the property and enclo-
sures for chickens and goats just up the hill. The school 
emphasizes community engagement through programs 
like Environmental Ventures, in which students develop 
entrepreneurial projects and pocket the profits, and Green 
Jobs Corps, which offers low-income students 
jobs at the school’s farm and other community 
organizations.


Common Ground’s courses are often unconventional. 
One former course, “Egg and Seed,” examined the begin-
ning of life cycles in both literature and science. As with 
Achievement First, the autonomy Common Ground has 
as a charter school allows for an outside-the-box curric-
ulum. And its interdisciplinary focus on the outdoors is 
possible only because the school was founded by an envi-
ronmental nonprofit with both a radical vision for educa-
tion and twenty acres abutting a state park.


Maintaining this curricular creativity without compro-
mising students’ test scores presented the school with a 
challenge. Back in 2007, just 30 percent of the school’s 
students earned proficient scores in English on CAP, the 
state’s benchmark test at the time. The school responded 
by implementing a variety of metrics, such as Common 
Core standards, monthly checks on class performance, 
and an in-house reading, language, and math assessment 
called MAP. By 2014, ninety percent of students met CAP 
proficiency levels.


But this shift in focus towards college achievement 
compromised the school’s founding principles of inter-
disciplinary coursework and outdoor programming. “It’s 
always been a tension for any school that’s small and 
independent,” said Liz Cox, Common Ground’s School 
Director. “You’re translating your transcript for a college, 
they see a class called ‘Egg and Seed’ and go, ‘What the 
heck is that?’ But we were losing a sense of our site-based 
classes, which were what this place really was about … 
We wanted to make sure kids felt connected to the place 
and to the city and saw themselves as leaders capable of 
change.” Administrators introduced a set of environmen-
tal leadership standards called POWER to form a new 
foundation for classes. Now, Common Ground students 
follow a carefully curated four-year progression. Ninth 
graders focus on the school’s site, tenth grade courses 
emphasize community engagement, and eleventh and 
twelfth graders follow a more individualized path. The 
Senior Social Justice Experience course is the culmi-
nation: students complete a project like Zidbeck and 
Chantre’s planter and compile a portfolio of their time at 
Common Ground.


Being a charter school facilitated Common Ground’s 
transformation, Cox said. “This year, to move this new 
curriculum out, to offer these kinds of choice-rich offer-
ings, we completely changed our schedule, our school 
“Everybody hates the culture it creates. 
That’s why people are like, you’re going 
back to hell, you’re going back to jail.” 

--- Page 26 ---

 26
day, the bell schedule, everything, and we did that with 
all of our teachers over the course of three months,” Cox 
said. “I think in a traditional school system, that never 
would have happened.” At charters like Common Ground 
and Achievement First, this kind of experimentation can 
be enacted and implemented immediately.


Unlike Achievement First, Common Ground has 
a peaceful relationship with the local school district, 
according to Torre, the former Board of Education mem-
ber. This is partly because, as an independent school, 
Common Ground is not seen as a threat to non-charters. 
But it’s also because it opens its resources to traditional 
public schools, hosting five thousand students for field 
trips every year. Still, Cox is skeptical that Common 
Ground’s approach to education could be replicated out-
side of a charter school setting. “All charters here are mis-
sion-driven,” she said. “Magnet schools, I look at them 
more as themed schools. Our mission is in our bones. 
It’s infiltrating everything that we do.” As Cox notes, 
the assumption has long held that for traditional public 
schools, experimentation is much more difficult. But one 
public school in New Haven has broken from conven-
tional pedagogy, challenging the notion that a school 
without a charter is a school without a mission.


**Title: Working From Within**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Working From Within
L
eslie Blatteau’s senior seminar was abuzz one morn-
ing this April. Students sat clustered around six 
rectangular tables, chatting as they waited for the 
lesson to begin. Blatteau strode to the front of the room, 
all business in a white polka-dot button-down and black 
high-top sneakers. “Welcome. We’re going to get started.”


Two students in the front row sat on their phones, tex-
ting. “Folks, I need your focus this morning,” she said, 
addressing the room at large. At another point, two stu-
dents in the back chatted away. “Zach and Victoria, one 
mic, please,” she said firmly. After running through a 
rubric on introductory paragraphs, she passed a sticky 
note to each student. “Tell me what you need,” she said, 
“and tell me what you’re straight with.” Then, the stu-
dents fanned out to the Dell computers lining the periph-
ery of the room and sprang into action. Each was working 
on a six- to eight-page research paper on an international 
human rights issue.


Blatteau teaches a senior seminar on law and political 
science at Metropolitan Business Academy (MBA), a mag-
net school located just south of Wooster Square. While 
traditional public schools in New Haven only admit stu-
dents from the immediate city, magnet schools also admit 
students from surrounding suburban districts via lottery. 
With twenty such schools, New Haven has the largest 
magnet system in the state. But unlike charter schools, 
magnet schools are governed by state education standards 
and held accountable to New Haven’s Board of Educa-
tion, meaning that they face the same curricular restraints 
as traditional public schools.


MBA, though, is different. Classes here, in contrast to 
the vast majority of New Haven’s schools, are not sorted by 
academic ability. Judy Puglisi, the school’s principal, said 
she views the practice of tracking based on perceived abil-
ity level as the product of bias. “Often, children who are 
viewed to have negative character traits don’t get tracked 
appropriately due to adult biases,” she wrote in an email. 
“If a kid has to babysit and doesn’t have time for home-
work after school, this child may be assigned to a lower 
track. The positive aspects of a non-tracked room include 
bringing diversity of thought into the room, challenging 
stereotypes and biases, and improving instructional ped-
agogy.” One student in Blatteau’s course had transferred 
from New Horizons School, a transition school for at-risk 
students, at the start of that year, and was writing his 
first-ever research paper for the course. He had chosen 
to research child exploitation at United States-operated 
factories in Sierra Leone.


At MBA, students receive traditional grades, but most 
of the emphasis is on process; teachers provide extensive 
feedback emphasizing revision and long-term improve-
ment. The research paper Blatteau’s students are working 
on will culminate in a social justice symposium in May, 
where they will present their findings to an audience of 
parents and community members. “Even if the outcome 
isn’t an exemplary paper, the student’s identity changes 
as a result of going through this process of researching 
and writing,” Blatteau said. “The student has internalized 


When New Haven’s 25,000 students sit down at 
their desks, the education they get in each of 
the city’s sixty-seven schools  is  a  product  of 
both  policies  and  priorities.

--- Page 27 ---

 27
APRIL 2018
what it takes to write a research paper; they see themselves 
as a social scientist.”


Eighty-five percent of MBA’s students are of color and 
its faculty is almost all white, making the racial dynamics 
of the classroom a focus for teachers. “Teenagers naturally 
question authority figures because their sense of justice 
and their sense of right and wrong is on overdrive,” Blat-
teau said. “We try as majority-white teachers in this school 
to not see outspoken black and brown teenagers as a threat 
to us, but as people who are trying to make the world a 
better place.”


MBA is a “trauma-informed school,” providing inten-
sive clinical support and counseling for students based 
on their individual needs. Puglisi, noting that students 
who exhibited behavioral issues were often dealing with 
outside stressors, started a weekly after-school drama club 
for students with high rates of absence. She then helped 
develop a course called “Alive,” taught by a history teacher 
and a trauma clinician, that engages with social justice 
issues, much like Common Ground’s senior seminar. 
Now, a team of a social worker, six social work interns, 
and two trauma specialists hold weekly case management 
meetings and develop plans to help individual students.


MBA’s approach –– project-based, non-tracked, trau-
ma-informed –– is the product of over a decades’ work. 
Blatteau and Puglisi met at Connecticut Scholars, a 
now-defunct New Haven school for ninth and tenth grad-
ers, in 2007, where they began to develop the approaches 
that now inform MBA’s core philosophy. “This common 
vision has been systematized and integrated into all 
aspects of the school community,” Puglisi wrote, includ-
ing scheduling, allocating funding, supporting students, 
tracking academic progress, promoting student leader-
ship, and hiring staff. There’s a reason few public schools 
look like this: it’s extremely difficult to do. But Blatteau 
and Puglisi’s work is a testament that while innovation 
may be more difficult to implement at a school like 
MBA than at a charter school like Amistad or Common 
Ground, it’s abundantly possible.


**Title: Unanswered Questions**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 27**

Unanswered Questions
W
hen New Haven’s twenty-five thousand stu-
dents sit down at their desks, the education 
they get in each of the city’s sixty-seven schools 
is a product of both policies and priorities. The former 
component, policies, raises concrete questions (“close-
ended,” a teacher might say). Would a charter school be 
able to keep up its test scores if it had to accept transfer 
students midyear? Doubtful. Could a traditional public 
school overhaul its curriculum at the drop of a hat? Prob-
ably not. Can a magnet school eliminate tracked courses 
and ignore standardized testing, throwing conventional 
pedagogy to the winds? Yes, but it’s hard to pull off.


The problem of priorities forces teachers and admin-
istrators to ask more abstract questions, about ideals and 
values. Given a school’s limited funding, will it invest in 
computers or art classes? When a student speaks out of 
turn in class, will the teacher scold or engage? Faced with 
a critique of her pedagogy, will a principal look to another 
school for advice or turn the other way? These questions 
define the kind of community a school creates and inform 
the way its students grow and learn to see the world.


This April, two of the students in Blatteau’s law and 
political science seminar at MBA, Damyia Jackson and 
Nyshiah Simon, described a project they had recently 
completed. Last fall, Blatteau’s students curated exhib-
its on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
installed a museum in the school. On December 10, 
Human Rights Day, the museum was opened to the pub-
lic. Jackson and Simon are best friends, practically insep-
arable, and they kept jumping in over each other as they 
talked about the project. Jackson’s project was on wom-
en’s rights, a topic she’d wanted to study since the start 
of the year. “We got to say how we felt,” she said, “using 
facts.” To Simon, that’s true of Blatteau’s class as a whole. 
“We get to speak our word,” she said.


Now that her tenure has begun, the way Carol Birks 
chooses to lead will have profound implications for the 
district. Will she be a tacit supporter of charter schools, or 
an outspoken advocate? Will she engage with traditional 
public schools, or will she retreat into boardrooms? These 
things matter, but one concern overshadows all others. In 
the search for New Haven’s superintendent last fall, stu-
dents felt disregarded and disempowered. But in the class-
room, teachers and administrators have the opportunity to 
change that going forward –– to create a place for students 
to speak their word. There are many means to this end, 
in charter, magnet, and traditional public schools alike. 
As New Haven’s schools turn to the future, with Birks at 
the helm, the fundamental question facing the district is 
whether its students will be silenced –– or whether they’ll 
be able to speak.


— Mark Rosenberg is a sophomore 
in Pierson College.
He is an editor-in-chief of 
The New Journal.



**Title: ANATOMY OF OBSERVATION**
**Author: Fernando Rojas**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Open up your coffers and caress air
Rugged waters and minerals
leap to grasp peach skies
Remember the geometry of birds
was never meant to appeal to you.
You, small observer, trust these blissful aromas.
Unfold the machinery of your heart.
Cosmic stories are written into the spaces
you’ve forgotten to fill.
Below the jade currents are golden silts.
Follow full and follow slowly.
You, ocean of a man, lower your tide
and see how the sand around you dries.
Expose anchors of shipwrecks and yearn
in the melancholy of their perhaps.
Soon you’ll see than holding on relentlessly erodes.
— Fernando Rojas is a junior
in Ezra Stiles College.


**Title: PANGAEA’S EDGE**
**Author: Christine Xu**
**Page number(s): 30**

A
t the summit of East Rock Park in New 
Haven, Connecticut, marked by the Sail-
ors and Soldiers war monument, the view 
extends for miles and miles –– across tall green 
trees, over downtown buildings that look like min-
iatures from a distance, and all the way to the blue 
waters of New Haven Harbor. 
Turn back the clock 200 million years, and this 
view is completely different. The land is covered 
with marshy shores and turquoise lakes and steam-
ing volcanoes. A twenty-foot-tall crested Dilopho-
saurus prowls in search of prey, leaving three-toed 
footprints. North America, Africa, and South 
America are joined together as the supercontinent 
Pangaea. Walking across Connecticut, the dino-
saur might step into what is now Rhode Island –– 
or southern Morocco. 
About 175 million years ago, as Pangaea broke

**Title: New Haven sits on the birth scars of the Atlantic Ocean. The rocks here tell the story of its human history.**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
apart, the continental plates spread and allowed 
magma to emerge from deep within the Earth. 
Lava flows, volcanic eruptions, and glacial events 
continued to shape the landscape –– molding 
Connecticut by fire and ice. 
From the top of East Rock today, these dramatic 
events are hardly apparent. Visitors to East Rock 
and West Rock, the rocky ridges that flank New 
Haven, or Sleeping Giant mountain in neighbor-
ing Hamden only see a stable landscape covered 
in greenery. Hikers are likely unaware that these 
parks once stood at the borders between conti-
nents, or that they’re tracing the footsteps of pre-
historic dinosaurs.  
Though the community relies on the parks as 
local hubs of exercise and leisure, most people 
know very little about the stories of these land-
marks –– stories that have shaped the human his-
tory of Connecticut for centuries.  
New Haven sits on the 
birth scars of the Atlantic 
Ocean. The rocks here 
tell the story of its 
human history.


Reporting for this piece was made possible 
by the Ed Bennett Memorial Fund.


**Title: Connecticut’s Geological History**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

For geologists, East Rock and West Rock 
aren’t weekend hangout spots –– they’re 
ground zero in a dramatic story about how 
the earth under our feet has shifted ever since the 
planet first formed. Geologists investigate how 
continental collisions and lava flows shaped the 
landscape of Connecticut, uniquely positioned at 
the fault lines of Pangaea. 
To understand why Connecticut’s landmarks 
fascinate geologists, I met with Professor Charles 
Merguerian from Hofstra University, a leading 
expert on geologic structure and plate tectonics 
in Connecticut and New York. He had come to 
New Haven to visit the Yale Peabody Museum’s 
geology collection, and asked me to meet him 
there. Dressed in jeans and hiking boots, Mergue-
rian showed me his collection of rocks in the back 
rooms of the museum, stored from his graduate 
school research projects.  
“Geologists are like detectives,” he told me as 
he opened a drawer, revealing tagged slabs of 
rocks about the size of my palm. The rocks seem 
unremarkable at first glance –– they’re what Mer-
guerian calls “ugly rocks,” chunks that can be 
seen at the side of any road –– but these are often 
extremely valuable to scientists. These rocks, 
which Merguerian collected from construction 
sites around Connecticut and New York, carry the 
record of geologic events that occurred in New 
England hundreds of millions of years ago. 
In his research, Merguerian uses a special saw 
blade to cut the rocks into paper-thin slices. He 
analyzes the slices to figure out what minerals 
are present. “These minerals…tell you how deep 
the rocks were, how old they were, under what 
temperatures and pressures they formed,” he 
explained. Since certain minerals can only form 
at precise temperatures, pressures, and locations, 
he uses this information to piece together the story 
of continental-scale collisions and breakages that 
shaped Connecticut. 
As Merguerian recounted to me, Connecticut’s 
story began as Pangaea formed. Around 450 mil-
lion years ago, the continental plates began to 
crash together to form Pangaea. North America 
and Africa collided in an event called the Taconic 
Orogeny, where the earth’s crust wrinkled, build-
ing mountain ranges that make up the present-day 
Appalachians. 
Then, 275 million years later, Pangaea started 
to break apart. Magma seeped out from the crust 
as gaps between the plates opened up. The peel-
ing apart of the North American and African con-
tinents created the Hartford Basin, the jagged rift 
basin spanning across Connecticut and Massa-
chusetts today.
“[The basin] marked the fracturing of the edge 
of North America, when Africa as a continental 
landmass started to spread away from North Amer-
ica,” explained Merguerian. Around this time, 
Merguerian said, the coastline would have resem-
bled what the East African Rift looks like today, a 
massive trench running across the continent.
East Rock, West Rock, and Sleeping Giant 
all formed 175 million years ago when Pangaea 
broke apart. Magma cooled underground and was 
pushed to the surface by continental movement 
to expose igneous rock. In the following hundreds 
of millions of years, these rocks were shaped into 
Lava flows, volcanic 
eruptions, and glacial 
events continued to 
shape the landscape — 
literally molding Con-
necticut by fire and ice.


their present form. The rocks contain mainly dia-
base and basalt with a high iron content, explain-
ing the dark brownish-reddish color. The stair-like 
appearance of these ridges led to their technical 
name, “trap rock” ridges, from the Swedish word 
“trappsteg,” meaning “stair.”
Like these landmarks, most of the rocks New 
Haven residents see and walk on today all came 
from deep within the earth. “The surface of rock 
that you drive on and look at in Connecticut, 
along the highways and walking through the wood 
–– [the] bedrock that’s now exposed to the surface 
–– was exhumed from depths of at least twenty 
to twenty-five miles beneath the earth’s surface 
today,” said Merguerian.
Finally, starting around two hundred thousand 
years ago, a series of glaciers added the finish-
ing touches to our modern landscape, sprinkling 
boulders across the land and remodeling the Con-
necticut River Valley. These events –– from the 
formation and breakage of Pangaea to the most 
recent glaciation –– shaped the environment 
where we walk and live and breathe every day.  
Merguerian feels that his scientific understand-
ing of the area allows a deeper connection with 
the landscape. “There are people that like to drive 
cars without knowing anything about how the cars 
work,” he said. “Others take great pleasures in 
knowing the inner mechanical secrets of how cars 
work, because it enhances the driving experience. 
Same thing with the earth’s surface.”


But the story of Connecticut is incomplete 
as only a geologic tale. As humans became 
a part of the landscape, they too began to 
shape it. To understand the role of humans in 
Connecticut’s natural history, I met with Julie 
Hulten, the community outreach chair at Sleeping 
Giant State Park. We spoke in the History Room 
at the Hamden Library, which was filled with doc-
uments, pictures, and models that showed what 
the town looked like throughout the ages. She 
sifted through black-and-white photos of Sleep-
ing Giant, with families posing proudly in front of 
cabins on its rocky head.  
Ten years ago, Hulten, a Hamden resident and 
former teacher, started regularly hiking Sleeping 
Giant and decided to help with its preservation. 
She now both contributes to the upkeep of the 
park and the documentation of its history. Hulten 
picked up the story of the landscape for me, now 
on a human, rather than geologic, timescale.  
The Quinnipiac nation, which has inhabited 
this part of New England from long before Euro-
pean contact, has a legend explaining how Sleep-
ing Giant was formed. The Quinnipiac tell stories 
of the giant Hobbomock, a powerful spirit who 
had taught all people and animals to speak the 
same language. When they drifted apart and lost 
this ability, he was enraged. He started ripping up 
trees, and, with one stomp of his foot, created a 
bend in the course of the Connecticut River. 
In order to stop Hobbomock from wreaking 
havoc on the landscape, his brother Keitan cast a 
spell on him to get him to fall asleep. Hobbomock 
has yet to wake up today. For the Quinnipiac, the 
place exists as a living, breathing part of the Earth. 
When British colonists arrived in Connecti-
cut, they settled around trap rock ridges like East 
Rock, West Rock, and Sleeping Giant, where they 
found rich construction materials like brownstone 
for their houses and churches. As the tale goes, 
in the 1660s, several judges had sentenced King 
Charles I to death during the English Civil War, 
and sought refuge in the New Haven wilderness. 
They hid in a cave now called Judges Cave in 
West Rock, and spent several months there until 
being chased out by a mountain lion.  
Society’s relationship with the landscape began 
to change with industrialization in the 1800s, 
when for the first time, interested naturegoers had 
to actively seek out natural spaces. As the transcen-
dentalist movement took hold, more people grew 
interested in nature as a respite from industrial 
daily life. East Rock and Sleeping Giant became 
popular tourist destinations.
The wealthy of New Haven and Hamden built 
cabins along the ridges of Sleeping Giant and 
would stay there during the summers. A local 
named John Dickerman constructed a carriage 
road and a pavilion on one of the ridges, and held 
an ice cream social to celebrate its completion; 
such projects ushered in a new age of outdoor rec-
reation. 
At the same time, these natural spaces were 
not outside the influences of industrialization. 
In 1911, the Mount Carmel Traprock Company 
began to quarry the Giant’s “head” for its valuable 
building materials. Successive companies joined 
in on the quarrying as America developed its love 
for the automobile, and years of blasting and stone 
removal left deep scars on the Giant’s head. Locals 
complained about the noise and worried that quar-
rying might destroy the landscape. In 1924, under 
the leadership of Yale professor James Toumey, 
citizens formed Sleeping Giant Parks Association 



**Title: Connecticut's Natural Landmarks: A Balancing Act Between Preservation and Progress**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to manage a donation of two hundred acres from a 
local landowner. In a remarkable environmental-
ist community effort, they turned the land over to 
the state for the creation of Sleeping Giant State 
Park.

This effort might have gone even further, as 
local residents had long played around with the 
idea to create a park spanning from New Haven to 
Hamden. The park would have joined East Rock 
and extended all the way up north to Sleeping 
Giant, but residential and commercial interests 
prevented this effort. While Hulten would have 
appreciated having such vast space set aside for 
nature, she laughed and admitted that if the plans 
were completed, her house wouldn’t be there 
today.  

Parks like East Rock and Sleeping Giant con-
tinue to play an important role in the community, 
from organized hikes to outdoor classrooms. In the 
summer, students toss Frisbees at the East Rock 
summit; in the winter, when the ground is cov-
ered in snow, some Special Olympics participants 
have used the flat open spaces around Sleeping 
Giant for ski training. “It’s a place for recreation 
and re-creation,” said Hulten. “Any folks will say 
that’s my sanctuary –– that’s where I go to clear 
my head. We all need natural places, away from 
noises and people.” 

Robert Thorson is a professor at the University of 
Connecticut who describes his work as “cultural 
geology.” He studies how humans might impact 
the natural landscape’s future, and educates the 
public about their stake in the environment. 

“When you take someone outside in a real setting, 
away from a desktop and away from a classroom 
and away from a laboratory, when you take them 
into some place they could have been a hundred 
thousand years ago, I think they feel differently 
about it…there’s a Paleolithic sort of power at 
heart.”

Thorson thinks that at the end of the day, peo-
ple are inspired by this same feeling when they 
encounter geological features, whether hiker or 
geologist. “Geologists are in the field because 
there’s this visceral sense of being outdoors some-
where looking at something,” he said. “Even if 
they spend ninety percent of their time in the lab 
sorting microfossils, they’re still really interested 
in the place. It’s the lakes, the river valley, the 
up-faulted block that interests people.” 

While we use these natural spaces to 
“get away” from society, it’s impossible 
not to bring human influences with us 
into these environments.  Thorson advocates for 
greater public awareness of natural history, so that 
Connecticut residents can make informed deci-
sions about the future based on the past. 

Thorson believes that humans hold the power 
to bring about great positive or negative impacts 
on the landscape. Columbia researcher Peter 
LeTourneau describes parks like East Rock, West 
Rock, and Sleeping Giant as valuable “sky islands,” 
contained ecological areas in a largely urban land-
scape. Thorson laments how the increased urban-
ization of Connecticut threatens these spaces. In 
a shift to what he calls “exit-ramp culture,” cities 
and roads have cut across the landscape, replacing 
birches and pines with gas stations and highways. 

He wants more places like East Rock, West Rock, 
and Sleeping Giant, which serve as refuges both 
for people who seek nature, and for nature itself. 

In the effort to protect our natural spaces, Thor-
son thinks that geologists play a key role in under-
standing the human impact on the environment. 

“I think the most important thing is to evaluate 
the ways in which human beings in the last four 
hundred years have modified the landscape,” said 
Thorson. “It’s only fair to talk about human beings 
as geologic agents.” While 
human 
beings 
have 
only 
appeared for a sliver of a sec-
ond on the geological clock, 

they’ve modified the landscape with impunity, 
from the quarrying of the colonists to the ambi-
tious construction projects taking place today. 

Merguerian offers a slightly different perspec-
tive. He’s contributed to the construction of 
highways and subway tunnels, for instance, by 
researching rock types suitable for drilling. His 
work represents a source of contention among 
geologists, who have often felt conflicted about 
their knowledge being used for development 
rather than preservation. 

Merguerian thinks such a conflict is unneces-
sary. He believes we should continue using our 
natural resources, while developing judicious 
ways to make use of our environment without 
exhausting it. When he helped with the con-
struction of the Queens Tunnel in New York, he 
thought, ‘Why not just leave the rocks instead of 
paving them over with concrete, so people can 
appreciate their natural beauty?’ His idea was dis-
missed, but he hopes that more people can under-
stand that the relationship between humans and 
the environment is not an issue of two extremes, 
but rather of compromise. 

In his writings, Thorson references a quote from 
Thoreau: “The earth is not a mere fragment 
of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the 
leaves of a book to be studied by geologists and 
antiquarians chiefly, but living poetry like the 
leaves of a tree, which precede flowers and fruit 
–– not a fossil earth, but a living earth.” 

Throughout history, people have found their 
own ways to understand and interact with Con-
necticut’s landscape, from the Quinnipiac to geol-
ogists like Thorson. The lens through which peo-
ple have interpreted these geologic landmarks has 
changed based on the era. But through it all, these 
natural landmarks have continually captivated the 
public’s interest and imagination.

Now, more than ever, humans exert great con-
trol over their environments, shaping and re-shap-
ing them at their whim –– as powerfully, in some 
senses, as continental plates. By recognizing this 
power, humans may begin to reconsider their rela-
tionship with the landscape.

The New Haven community has done so by 
striving to co-live with natural spaces –– not only 
co-existing, but interacting with nature on a per-
sonal and daily level. The city of New Haven is 
nestled between the natural sanctuaries of East 
Rock and West Rock. Residents in the East Rock 
neighborhood live walking distance to the land-
mark. From organized hikes and runs to the Rock 
to Rock Earth Day bike race, community events 
show that New Haven would not be the same city 
without these parks.

It is impossible to predict what the landscape 
will look like in 200 million years, or even in two 
hundred years. But geologists, historians, and resi-
dents alike all hope that these remarkable natural 
spaces will continue to be an integral part of New 
Haven’s identity.

From the twelve-storied Kline Biology Tower on 
Science Hill of Yale’s campus, the view extends 
across the city. Looking out, one can see East Rock 
far in the distance, marked by the Sailors and Sol-
diers monument at its peak. Its tall and impres-




**Title: A MAGE IN THE MAKING**
**Author: Henry Reichard**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he swarthy Hero of Iroas scowled, swept back his 
crimson cape, and put up his fists. Kytheon’s Irregu-
lars drew their swords. The demonic Master of the 
Feast rose on his bat’s wings. Cameron surveyed his army, 
considered his odds, and called for a frontal assault. In that 
moment, I knew that I had him. It was a small mistake: a 
slight overextension of his forces, a bit of cockiness from an 
experienced mage who was certain his amateur adversary 
wouldn’t notice a blunder. But this was Magic: The Gather-
ing — a trading card game where victory is often decided by 
the smallest of margins. Even a small mistake could be fatal.

We were in Elm City Games, the city’s haven for Magic. 
When the first edition of the game was released in 1993, it 
was merely a fast-paced alternative to traditional roleplaying 
games such as Dungeons and Dragons, but now the most 
valuable Magic cards fetch prices as high as $27,000, the best 
players sometimes live off their tournament earnings, and the 
game’s dilettantes number more than twenty million around 
the world. On many Friday and Saturday nights, ECG 
becomes what Brandon Patton, a frequent patron, calls an 
“oasis for misfits” –– a gathering place for professionals who 
take a trading card game far too seriously and for amateurs 
entranced by the metal mountains of Mirrodin, the vam-
pire-infested bogs of Innistrad, and the shoguns of Kamigawa.

My opponent was, at once, an aspiring doctor who played 
Magic with surgical precision and a mighty wizard called a 
planeswalker who could call on both the pure mana of the 
steppe and the necromancy of the swamp. Cameron was mus-
cular, collected, confident –– not at all like the gangly gamers 
who usually frequent comic book stores and play Magic only 
after abandoning more macho pastimes such as Trivial Pur-
suit or Dungeons and Dragons. I had just watched him dis-
member his last opponent, dominating two games before I 
had finished one. I hadn’t played seriously in three years –– 
Magic doesn’t easily fit into a Yale schedule  –– and Cameron 
must have sensed my ineptness before we even began play-
ing, simply from the clumsy way I shuffled my deck of cards. 
But none of that mattered anymore. I knew that I had him.

I drew a card, summoned a Seismic Elemental, then 
pushed all four of my creatures forward: the dragon, the ele-
mental, and the two goblins  –– too many for him to block with 
three of his creatures recovering from their recent charge and 
enough to finish him if they all landed their attacks. Silence 
hung over the table. And for the first time that night, I saw 
the Magic –– not the cards on the table, not the two young 
men craned over them in a noisy store smelling of fresh paint 
and body odor, but instead the two planeswalkers facing off 
on opposite ends of a charred steppe, the dragon with iron 
scales burning a hole in the dark sky, the elemental burrow-
ing under the earth, the junior wizard inspecting his forces 
with a triumphant smirk, and the senior wizard clutching his 
staff, mumbling a futile counter-spell, his expression dazed, 
disbelieving, defeated.

Smiling slightly, Cameron reached out over the table, 
pointed to Kytheon’s Irregulars, and told me he was tapping 
my dragon.
“You’re what?” I said, glancing nervously at the irregulars. 
“I’m tapping your dragon,” he repeated. And there it was: a 
thin line of unremarkable text on the Kytheon’s Irregulars 
card that I had entirely forgotten. For two white mana, he 
could put any of my creatures to sleep. My dragon, overcome 
by a bout of uncharacteristic fatigue, fell out of the sky and 
decided to take a nap. 

My two goblins and my elemental, now leaderless, 
threw their pathetic spears and boulders at the opposing 
planeswalker. And then Cameron’s demon darkened the sky


and his irregulars stormed over the plain and he had me.

The game was over, the Magic was broken, and I leaned 
back from the table, biting my lip. At least I had made it 
close. The next game was not close. At times I found my eyes 
drifting away from the card table to the store surrounding us. 
It was a game shop on Chapel Street, not far from the Green, 
with the convivial atmosphere of a secluded café. It had high 
ceilings, round playing tables, and row after row of board 
games, bags of twenty-sided die, and roleplaying rulebooks 
for Pathfinder, Dark Heresy, and three separate editions of 
Dungeons and Dragons lining the walls.

Elm City Games opened a little over two years ago. Trish 
Loter and Matt Fantastic, its two owners, make a strong effort 
to promote a welcoming culture. “Magic, for us, is a pas-
sion, a labor of love,” Loter told me. “We don’t make a lot 
of money from Magic –– it’s one of our smallest margins. 
We do it because we like it.” On this night, there were only 
four of us in the store: Cameron, myself, a longtime player 
named Anthony (experienced enough to lose to Cameron 
stoically), and a new player named Robert, who angrily for-
feited his game against Cameron on the third turn, stormed 
away, and declared that playing against him was “like trying 
to arm-wrestle with Mr. T.”

Mr. T smiled at me good-naturedly after pinning my arm 
in the second game. A match was best two-out-of-three, so we 
were finished, and in the lull that followed I found myself 
thinking for the first time that night about the problem sets 
I had to finish, and the book I had to read, and the article 
I had to write by Sunday. Cameron turned back to me and 
suggested we play another game with different decks. He is 
a medical student at Quinnipiac and doubtless had unwrit-
ten papers and unstudied flashcards in his world as well. But 
on this evening, he was not in that world. On this evening, 
he and I were planeswalkers –– powerful mages who were 
never tired or dispirited, who could flit effortlessly between 
alien realms, who had scoffed at the false gods of Theros and 
overpowered the titanic Eldrazi of Zendikar. Relaxing again, 
I drew my seven cards, considered my options, and told Cam-
eron I was playing a Goblin Lackey.


**Title:  END NOTE**
**Author: Christine Xu**
**Page number(s): 37**

sive cliffs seem unintimidating when looking at it 
from this height. Yet it’s impossible to forget what 
it feels like to stand at the base of the park: gazing 
upwards, at jagged rock against a blue sky. One 
human looking up at this towering structure made 
by the Earth. Small, but part of something bigger.



**WRITE WITH US**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
WRITE WITH US:
Neela Banerjee ‘86
Emily Bazelon ‘93
James Bennet ‘88
Eric Boodman ‘15
Julia Calagiovanni ‘15
Jay Carney ‘87
Richard Conniff ‘73
Ruth Conniff ‘90
Elisha Cooper ‘93
Jackie Cooperman ‘95
Andy Court ‘83
Susan Dominus ‘92
Max Ehrenfreund ‘12
Dana Goodyear ‘98
Paul Goldberger ‘72
David Greenberg ‘90
Anya Kamenetz ‘02
Tina Kelley ‘85
Ava Kofman ‘14 
Elizabeth Kolbert ‘83
Benjamin Mueller ‘14
Sophia Nyugen ‘14
Julia Preston ‘73
Noah Remnick ‘15
Hampton Sides ‘84
Gabriel Snyder ‘98
Aliyya Swaby ‘13
John Swansburg ‘00
Ike Swetlitz ‘15
Jada Yuan ‘00
Daniel Yergin ‘68
InsideClimateNews
Slate & The New York Times Magazine
Editorial Page Editor, The New York Times
STAT, the digital newsroom covering health and medicine
editorial fellow at The Atlantic
former White House Press Secretary
National Geographic & The New York Times
The Progressive
author of children’s books
Wall Street Journal
60 Minutes
The New York Times Magazine
The Washington Post
The New Yorker
Vanity Fair editor at large
author and journalism professor
NPR
The New York Times & Covenant House
former editor-in-chief of The New Inquiry
The New York Times
Harvard Magazine
author and journalist
Editor-in-Chief of The New Republic
The Texas Tribune
deputy editor of Slate
STAT
Pulitzer Prize-winning author
contact editors@thenewjournalatyale.com


CONGRATULATIONS TO THE NEW JOURNAL’S CLASS OF 2018:
Ruby Bilger, Elena Saavedra Buckley, Victorio Cabrera, 
Philippe Chlenski, Elinor Hills, Rohan Naik, 
Jacob Sweet, Natalie Yang

