Publication date: 09/22
Volume 55, Issue 1

**Title: Pac-Man**
**Author: Lazo Gitchos**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In a brightly lit corner of 
Trumbull’s basement, between the 
pool table and the buttery, a little 
modernized slice of electronic his­
tory beeps and boops at pool sharks 
and passersby. The replica Ms. Pac-
Man machine is free to play. Games 
like Galaga (1 and 2) and Donkey 
Kong pop up on the loading screen, 
but the headliners, the iconically 
hungry yellow ball and his wife, 
stand out at the top of the list.


On a few long winter nights 
last year, pushing the joystick down 
toward the bar stool, I guided the 
yellow pixels around the little 
maze-prison, full of points to accu­
mulate and ghosts to outsmart. At 
each new path, the Pixels (2015) star 
munched his way down the dashed 
line, offering me a respite from the 
rest of the weeknight evening spent 
munching through responsibilities 
arranged in a dashed line in my 
Google calendar.


With an unshakable reliance on 
G-Cal’s artificial memory to track 
classes, meetings, and sometimes 
social interaction, it’s easy to chew 
through a day, tasking away experi­
ences as scheduled instead of spon­
taneous. My late-night forays into 
the pixelated cartoon realm were a 
chance to leave my own chewable 
to-do list for a moment, in favor of 
something useless. I never got the 
machine’s highscore, not that I was 
really trying, and I never scheduled 
my interactions with the near-futile 
joystick in advance.


I haven’t visited the red joystick 
and nineteen-eighties sound bytes in 
a while. For now, they lie dormant 
under Elm Street, waiting for some­
one else to do something useless.
—Lazo Gitchos
all aside illustrations by charlotte rica