Publication date: November 2020
Volume: 53
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-In-Chief: Helena Lyng-Olsen, Candice Wang
- Executive Editor: Elena DeBre
- Managing Editor: Hailey Andrews
- Associate Editors: Jack Delaney, Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz, Madison Hahamy, Meera Rothman, Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Eli Mennerick, Elliot Wailoo
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen
- Copy Editors: Nicole Dirks, Anna Fleming, Ella Goldblum
- Creative Director: Meher Hans
- Design Editors: Brian Chang, Natasha Gaither, Rebecca Goldberg, Annli Nakayama
- Illustrators: Cindy Ren, Sydney Zoehrer


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- FEATURE - snapshot: LOOKING AT THE LIGHTHOUSE
- personal essay: STRAWBERRY FIELDS, FOREVER?
- photography: UNTITLED
- personal essay: MEMOIRS OF A FUTURE WORLD-FAMOUS FEMALE JAZZ SAXOPHONIST
- personal essay: ON BEAUTY
- creative: CALLIOPE
- point of departure: TEACHING UNDER TRIAGE
- creative: GIVE AND TAKE
- verse: POEM, 12.1.20 (DEADLINE BLUES)
- verse: FIRST DATE
- verse: DRIFTING DOWN THE STREAM
- verse: SESTINA
- photography: ERZURUM (TURKEY), NEBRASKA, JERUSALEM, ASHWAN (EGYPT)
- endnote: ASYNCHRONY
- STANDARDS
- WHAT’S IN A NAME? - Zachary Groz


**Dear Readers:**
**Author: Helena & Candice**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,
What a year it has been. Now that classes have spun to a close, Yale has sent us away from those we know, back 
to childhood desks or warmly lit kitchens. We once again find ourselves in cocoons of at-home isolation, this 
time with the hope of normalcy on the horizon. But for now, while we wait out what we hope will be one last 
winter of solitude, there is no choice but to reflect on this past, strange year. 

That’s what our writers have done. This issue of The New Journal includes more poetry, creative essays, and 
fiction than we’ve ever featured before. Each piece is intimate—when our writers tell their stories, you’ll get to 
know a bit about them, too.

We hope that reading through this magazine will give you a little reprieve from the world. 
Yours,
Helena & Candice


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 3**

 3
FEATURE
snapshot: LOOKING AT THE LIGHTHOUSE
personal essay: STRAWBERRY FIELDS, FOR-
EVER?
photography: UNTITLED
personal essay: MEMOIRS OF A FUTURE 
WORLD-FAMOUS FEMALE JAZZ SAXO-
PHONIST
personal essay: ON BEAUTY
creative: CALLIOPE
point of departure: TEACHING UNDER 
TRIAGE
creative: GIVE AND TAKE
verse: POEM, 12.1.20 (DEADLINE BLUES)
verse: FIRST DATE
verse: DRIFTING DOWN THE STREAM 
verse: SESTINA
photography: ERZURUM (TURKEY), 
NEBRASKA, JERUSALEM, ASHWAN (EGYPT)
endnote: ASYNCHRONY
4
8
13
14
18
20
24
29
30
31
32
33
42
43


**WHAT’S IN A NAME?**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 34**

STANDARDS
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
Uncovering a history through tracing a name.
Zachary Groz
Alex
SungMi Johnson
Caroleine James
Alice Yan
Sarah Pillard
Alexandra Galloway
Sophie Kyle Collins
Lucy Zhu
Nimran Shergill
Abigail Sylvor Greenberg
Joji Baratelli
Phoebe Liu
34
Talia Soglin



**Looking at the Lighthouse**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
I
n mid-November, I started reading Virginia Woolf’s 
To the Lighthouse and, like James Ramsay, one of 
the novel’s main characters, I developed something 
of an idée fixe about visiting one. Lighthouses embody 
a contradiction I wanted to understand––they are, in 
Woolf’s words, “endlessly suggestive signifiers of both 
human isolation and our ultimate connectedness to 
each other.” The timing seemed right to reconcile the 
two: I had recently recovered from COVID-19 and 
finished a lonely quarantine. So on a wind-bitten day 
before Thanksgiving, I trekked out to Five Mile Point 
lighthouse, which sits on a promontory at the lip of 
New Haven Harbor. I was hoping for illumination––
what else would a lighthouse provide?––to see whether 
visiting the place, as if consulting an oracle, might 
resolve the antithesis Woolf identified. 

On the beach, Five Mile Point lighthouse is massive 
and deceptively everywhere. Swivel your head in any 
direction and it will eventually show itself. I climbed 
the staircase leading to the optic section at the top of 
the lighthouse––a 74-step spiral that narrows like the 
chamber of a seashell––with the sound of shards of 
stone crunching under foot caroming off the walls. 

 5
Late in the day, the glass enclosure, seventy feet in 
the air, no more than six feet in diameter and eight in 
height, fills with sunlight but does not glow. The scene 
expands but the room constricts.

From this vantage, at the tower’s crown, New Hav-
en’s skyline looks small and secret, like it was never 
supposed to be seen from this side, denuded of smoke-
stacks and golden when the sun is low. The view is 
about the boldest illustration of New Haven’s conquest 
of the coast. Looking out, I could see all of the city 
from City Point to the East Shore and, on the horizon, 
oil tankers and oyster fishers navigating the waters, a 
marriage of the new and old New Worlds. New Haven 
follows a rule about coastal cities: their progress 
depends on their mastery of the sea. Mastery of the sea 
was impossible without a lighthouse. 

For thirty years, Five Mile Point did what it could to 
guide seafarers into port, but because it was situated 
too far inland, its light was dim to the point of invis-
ibility in thick fog and ships kept running their keels 
over the rocks in the harbor. In 1877, the lighthouse 
was decommissioned, stripped of its fog bell and 4,000-
pound lens. On the inside, all that’s left is the view 
out. At the top of Five Mile Point I realized, as James 
Ramsay eventually does, that the allure of lighthouses 
is in the distance from them—that I was only in “a stark 
tower on a bare rock.” 

Across the water, I could faintly make out New Hav-
en’s other lighthouse, the active one, Southwest Ledge 
Light. And though I had just come to understand what 
reaching a lighthouse does to its allure, what is lost in 
the summit, I wanted to get closer. 

***
I couldn’t. Southwest Ledge Light is privately owned 
but under the Coast Guard’s jurisdiction. Hoping 
to catch a ride out to the island on one of the Coast 
Guard’s regular maintenance visits, I called the New 
Haven station so many times that the officers started 
to recognize my voice (“ayyy, it’s you again!”). They 
told me it would be months before conditions would be 
right for a trip out and even then nothing was guaran-
teed. In the meantime, photographs of the lighthouse 
would have to suffice. 

The photographs seemed to capture what the early 
American daguerreotypist Albert Southword said the 
medium can: the “soul of the subject itself.” Because 
they have the features of a body––neck, face, and 
complexion––and suggest an inner life with cycles of 
ruin and grace, lighthouses have been ripe for anthro-
pomorphizing. A picture taken by the Coast Guard 
in 1903 shows Southwest Ledge Light pallid and for-
gotten––the soul of a different American Gothic. The 
lighthouse stands on less than an acre of breakwater, an 
artificial landing made from the rubble of underwater 
rock, or “riprap.” Its footprint extends no longer than 
a brontosaurus from tail to jaw and the boulders that 
jut toward the mainland, shrinking as the water deep-
ens, resemble vertebrae. The smallness of the island is 
apparent and the water in the foreground twists like in 
a Munch painting. The lighthouse’s Second Empire 
exterior and mansard roof were meant to make it look 
homey, but to today’s eyes the structure looks haunted, 
as if a turret of a Victorian mansion had harpooned 
its way through the rock, leaving the rest of the house 
submerged.

Given the building’s eeriness, I wondered whether it 
had been the scene of something brutal. Journal entries 
from the winter of 1907-8 confirmed my suspicion, pre-
figuring the plot of Robert Eggers’ 2019 period horror 
film The Lighthouse: an assistant tried to kill the head 
keeper twice, the first time with a fire axe, the second 
with a butcher’s knife. Failing, he rowed to shore and 
committed suicide. Lighthouse folklore is replete with 
other accounts of madness: the first two keepers at the 
Phare de Tévennec, a lighthouse off the coast of Brit-
tany, were driven insane by what they believed were 
the voices of ghosts; Theed “Crazy” Judson, a keeper at 
Stratford Point Light in Connecticut, claimed to have 
seen sea serpents and mermaids rising from the water. 

The trope of the deranged lighthouse keeper is easy 
to rationalize. The labor and repetition were relentless: 
every night polishing the lens of the lamp, stoking the 
fire within it with explosive whale oil, cranking the 
light nonstop during storms, and enduring the blow 
of the foghorn every fifteen seconds, like a clockwork 
song of the sirens, sometimes for weeks 

 6
on end. A keeper’s day might leave too little room for 
quiet contemplation, or too much. “The trouble with 
our life here,” said Milton Herbert Reamy, a Massachu-
setts keeper, “is that we have too much time to think.” 

What’s more, some scholars speculate, in bathing their 
lenses in liquid mercury to reduce the friction of the 
bearings beneath the lamp, keepers inadvertently poi-
soned themselves and triggered a kind of psychosis, 
more commonly known as mad hatter syndrome. Bore-
dom, hard labor, and chemical exposure were a perfect 
storm many keepers could not weather.    

But the job was done nonetheless, and done for mil-
lennia, all the way back to the Phoenicians, who built 
a network of navigational aids throughout the Mediter-
ranean––temples with eternal flames that priests lit at 
night. The Greeks did the same with their city-states. 
The Romans built towers at Ostia, Ravenna, Pozzuoli, 
Messina, Dover, and Boulogne, each integral to the 
settlement of port cities and the empire’s expansion. 
Controlling light made longer voyages possible and 
with them a larger geography of exchange and war, 
connecting mariners to the land and civilizations with 
one another. Centuries later, lighthouses became some 
of the world’s first non-military public works, adding 
nuance to the role of the state and laying the founda-
tion for its infrastructure. 

Every empire learned pharology, the science of light-
house construction, named after the island of Pharos, 
where the famous Lighthouse of Alexandria was built. 
Long after the Lighthouse of Alexandria became a ruin 
and Rome an idea, the modern empires of France, 
Britain, and America advanced the art. The Tour de 
Cordouan in France, completed in 1611, was the first 
lighthouse to use a Fresnel lens, the 
invention said to have “saved a mil-
lion ships.” A Fresnel lens looks like a 
twelve-foot-tall Fabergé egg made of 
glass with concentric rings etched on 
the surface in the shape of rippling 
water. It aligns an array of prisms on 
incrementally more dramatic angles 
to collimate, or make parallel, the 
rays of light from an oil lamp, con-
centrating them into a single intense 
beam. By the mid-19th century, most 
lighthouses had one. Fresnel lenses 
were also used in early car head-
lamps, movie projectors, cameras, 
and aircraft carrier landing strips. 
Many modern conveniences still 
have a little lighthouse in them. 

Most lighthouses today don’t use 
a Fresnel lens. Blinking LEDs have 
replaced them and GPS, VHF radio, and other com-
puter electronics have reduced them to failsafes. All but 
a few have been automated. There are still a few dozen 
civilian keepers, but the last generation of keepers in 
the Coast Guard has dwindled to one: Sally Snowman, 
who has been tending the light in Boston Harbor for 
the past 17 years. Snowman’s post is mandated by an 
act of Congress, which made Boston Light, the oldest 
lighthouse in the country, a kind of antiquarian simula-
tion of what it once was.

Boston Light’s old Fresnel lens shines a warm beam 
for 20 miles more than is needed to bring ships into 
port, but, according to Snowman, its intensity feeds a 
longing in the psyche, its sweeping rays coming down 
“like a shield to the horizon.” The light “means many 
things to people on metaphysical and spiritual levels,” 
she told me, “and they don’t want to see that go.” For 
an opening bid of 10,000 clams, they don’t have to. 

The National Historic Lighthouse Preservation Act 
of 2000 set off a surge in the buying of derelict light-
houses: Southwest Ledge Light was auctioned off, in 
2016, to Beacon Preservation, which owns lighthouses 
up and down the Atlantic seaboard, and the Werth 
Family Foundation; earlier this year, Chesapeake Bay 
Lighthouse, offshore in Baltimore, was sold to a private 
buyer for upwards of $60,000; and there are now five 
lighthouses on the Great Lakes alone up for auction. 
Some bid for their beauty, others for what they hope 
they might reveal.

Tonight in New Haven Harbor, having slept through 
the day, Southwest Ledge Light’s lamp will spin. 
Tomorrow night it will do the same. And seemingly for-



**Title: Southwest Ledge Light**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ever in a convergence of systems: ancient and modern, 
utilitarian and romantic, rational and uncanny, the 
deep alone and the always together. In believing that 
I would find some meaning by making it to the light-
house, I committed an error of reification, mistaking 
the concrete for its idea, the place for what it symbol-
izes. Southwest Ledge Light and its terrain are still a 
mystery to me and I’d like to keep it that way. Knowing 
its stairs are there, and that they lead somewhere, is 
enough. 
--Zachary Groz is a Sophomore in Jonathan Edwards 
College and an Associate Editor.
Southwest Ledge Lighthouse, 1903.


**Title: Strawberry Fields Forever?**
**Author: Alex***
**Page number(s): 9**

M
y father is awake before the sun rises. My 
mother, up before both of them, labors at 
the stove. Breakfast is a plate of chilaquiles, a cup 
of Nestlé, and half a concha—a breakfast proven 
to be great for the soul, albeit not so much for the 
stomach. On the TV, the Univision weatherman 
announces the possibility of rain in the afternoon. 
It doesn’t come around often, but when it does, all 
the strawberry fields flood, making it impossible for 
agricultural laborers to work without getting—liter-
ally—stuck in the mud. My parents react quickly; 
they can get more hours in if they leave now.

As they drop their still-full plates in the sink, I drag 
myself out of bed for my first class, a 9:25 AM lecture 
that has, unfortunately, become a 6:25 AM lecture 
since I decided to enroll in my Yale courses remotely 
and ride out the pandemic at home. “Leaving 
already?” I ask them. One of the plus sides of living 
where we do—in an apartment complex that used 
to be a labor camp deep in the agricultural fields of 
Watsonville, California—is that my parents don’t 
need to drive very far to get to work, which allows 
our mornings to go by a little slower.

Today, though, it’s not the distance that they’re 
worried about, but the time. Because my parents 
get paid by the hour—$5.75 plus $1.50 per box of 
strawberries they fill—the rain is an unwelcome 
guest. True downpours can mean days before the 
ground beneath their feet is stable enough to sustain 
their work again. Perhaps selfishly, I ask it to come. 
To pour hot and hard from the sky and drench the 
earth and stop it all in exchange for a few days of 
rest. But because I know that my parents’ hands 
have never been comfortable with idleness, this 
prayer is kept between myself and the skies, and to 
them I only say, “Okay. Cuídense. Remember to 
wear your masks.”

Take care.  Over the years my parents’ bodies 
have accumulated trauma from spending their days 
upside down, bent over with their hands almost 
buried under the hot earth, laboring from sun-
rise to sunset in the unforgiving fields that we call 
home. Maybe due to pride, maybe denial, my par-
ents aren’t the type to talk about where their bodies 
carry the strain. But I can’t look away. I see it in their 
calloused hands and feet. Bruised knees. Sunburnt 
necks and the tops of their hands. My father’s swol-
len ankles. The small of my mother’s tense back. 
Everywhere I look I see evidence of bodies valued 
only for the labor that is slowly becoming their ruin.

So, I worry. I tell them to be careful because I 
know the world considers them disposable and 
because they are not. Sometimes I become frus-
trated at my parents’ optimism about their posi-
tion because I know too much to be optimistic. I 
know that although Latinx people make up only 
about a third of Santa Cruz County’s population, 
they account for over half of our COVID-19 cases. 
I know that although Watsonville residents are 
only twenty percent of the county’s population, 




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Alex**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
they make up fifty percent of the county’s cases. I 
know that in July of this year, the California Insti-
tute for Rural Studies found that farmworkers in my 
county are three times as likely as other essential 
workers to test positive for COVID-19. I know that 
if my parents were to get sick they would be vul-
nerable because of the parts of their bodies already 
worn down by their labor, and I know that because 
undocumented workers are not eligible for stimu-
lus checks, disability benefits, or health insurance, 
my parents will be forced to keep disregarding their 
bodies for as long as possible. I feel like my parents 
are being held hostage. This makes me want to cry 
and scream and break some shit in anger, but my 
parents don’t see it the way I do. To them, it’s just 
the way it’s always been.


In my earliest memory, I am four years old and 
running over white and green kitchen tiles, opening 
empty cupboards, and standing in the door frame of 
my childhood bedroom yelling, “I call this one!” It 
was the day that we moved into our current apart-
ment, the first home of our own, and the world was 
brimming with possibility.


In the few months after we received confirmation 
that we had been approved to move into Jardines 
del Valle, the official name for the MidPen owned 
housing complex, my parents had crafted a perfect 
fantasy of our new home. A playground. A basket-
ball court. A room of my own—not just one for the 
four of us. A soccer field. Lots of space to run and 
play. “Un sueño,” they called it. A dream.


At the time I didn’t know, of course, what was so 
miraculous about it. Later I learned that since Mid-
Pen Housing renovated the complex in 1996 specif-
ically for low-income agricultural workers and their 
families, we were only able to afford it because the 
rent was partly subsidized. Known first as Murphy’s 
Camp, and later as El Campo del Hoyo, the place 
has endured for a hundred years as a permanent 
site of contradiction, a place for laborers where no 
labor occurs, an enclave for rest. Over the past few 
months, since the coronavirus pandemic forced me 
to come home from college, I’ve been trying to fig-
ure out my place here. I walk around my neighbor-
hood looking for answers, or maybe ghosts, imagin-
ing the stories that have passed through here in the 
hopes that they’ll help me discover my own.


Fermin Tobera is the ghost I think about the 
most. In the late 1920s, when the camp was just a 
few rows of bunkhouses, Fermin Tobera slept and 
bathed here. He was twenty years old when he left 
his home country of the Philippines and made his 
way to Watsonville in the hopes of finding work in 
the fields and being able to send money home. His 
mother characterized him as “gentle” and “cour-
teous to the old.” On January 23rd, 1930—a few 
months before his twenty-second birthday—Fermin 
Tobera was hiding in a closet  when a shot was fired 
into his bunkhouse, striking him through his heart.


The days preceding his murder had seen some 
of the worst instances of anti-Filipino violence ever 
documented in the US. On the night of January 
18th, 1930, about five hundred white men and boys 
brought clubs and weapons to a Filipino-owned 
dance club in the Palm Beach section of Watson-
ville and threatened to burn the place down. They 
had heard that there were nine white women living 
in the dance club, and they intended to ‘liberate’ 
them. Due to bias in immigration and hiring pol-
icies, only one in fourteen Filipino laborers doing 
seasonal farm work were women, and the men 
often sought the companionship of white women. 
This incensed Watsonville’s white population. 
Immigrants were not supposed to ‘take’ things—
including women, who were seen as things. They 
were only supposed to give—to give their labor 
and their time and their bodies—and they were 
supposed to do so without laying down roots in this 
country or asking for anything in return.


In the mind of the mob, Filipinos had broken 
a silent contract, and it was time to pay. The own-
ers threatened to shoot if the mob didn’t recede. It 
didn’t. The owners opened fire. What followed was 
a week of horrifying racial violence against Filipino 
laborers. At Riberal’s labor camp, carloads of white 
men pulled workers out of their homes and beat 
them in the streets. Rioters demolished a Chinese 
apple dryer that employed Filipinos. They threw 
people off the Pajaro Bridge. Fermin Tobera’s mur-
der was the tragic culmination of it all.


I wonder how long his body sat in that closet 
before it was picked up and flown to Manila, where 
his home country sponsored a large funeral for him, 


I wonder this because those particularities make me feel like I carry him 
somehow, like his body hasn’t been completely 
erased from this place. I wonder this because it feels 
important that his body was able to rest before it 
had to cross another border.


The summer after my sophomore year of high 
school, my mother caught me and my cousin smok-
ing the world’s smallest joint in one of the empty 
tractors that sit in the fields behind our house. After 
dragging us back inside by our ears, she delivered 
an hour-long sermon about how drug use leads you 
on a rapid downward spiral towards degeneracy 
and homelessness, and also makes you stupid. My 
mother became convinced that I was going to drop 
out of school, run off with a drug dealer, and come 
back home with a baby. (My mother watches a lot 
of telenovelas). As punishment, she gave me two 
options: spend the summer at my grandmother’s 
house in Mexico without cell service and internet 
or go to work with her to see what my future would 
look like if I stayed on this ‘wrong path.’


The next morning, I wrapped a bandana around 
my face to protect me from the sun and headed out 
in Converse and Hollister jeans for my first day at 
work. I was annoyed, but not too worried; work-
ing in the fields didn’t seem that hard, and at least 
I wouldn’t be bored. When we got there, the sun 
was starting to rise, and a beautiful shade of orange 
reflected off the tarps covering unending miles of 
produce. The mayordomo divided us into sections, 
handed us our boxes, and told us to start working.


It took about an hour for me to realize that I had 
absolutely no idea what I was doing. While the 
women around me were about a third of the way 
through their sections, working like machines as 
they crawled on their knees from row to row, I was 
embarrassingly slow and increasingly tired. I had 
no idea how to decide which berries were ready and 
was constantly drawn to the reddest, sweetest-look-
ing strawberries on the vine. Rookie mistake. By the 
time they were packaged, shipped, and ready to eat, 
they would be speckled with mushy looking grooves 
and impossible to sell. Sometimes, when I pulled 
one of these out, the older señoras working next to 
me would pause their gossiping to say, “Not that 
one, mija.”


By the time the clock hit ten and the mayor-
domo released us for our first break, I was ready to 
collapse out of exhaustion. My hips were tight from 
squatting, my eyes were itchy from the dust, bruises 
formed on my knees, and I was developing a head-
ache from the constant movement. The sun, which 
had seemed so beautiful in the morning, was sud-
denly unforgiving. I felt the sun burning the back of 
my neck and wanted nothing more than to accept 
defeat and go home. But the day was only begin-
ning, and rest came only in a fifteen-minute “sit 
under the shade, drink some water, pee if you need 
to, stuff half a granola bar into your mouth before 
the mayordomo is yelling ‘back to work’” interval.


The militaristic nature of el fil was a harsh 
reminder of my mother’s words, of all the sacri-
fices my parents had made for me, sacrifices which 
apparently I’d squandered by allowing myself to be 
a normal teenager. “This is where you’ll end up,” 
she told me, “If you don’t start taking your future 
more seriously.” I did start taking it more seriously, 
not because I particularly cared about where I 
ended up, but because I understood that my future 
was inextricably tied to my family’s, and I wanted 
their story to end somewhere other than those 
fields.


Almost a full five years later, I’m well on my 
way to receiving a degree from Yale, which should 
make me feel like I’ve made some progress toward 
improving my family’s position. But mostly it just 
makes me angry, because I also feel like I’m being 
held hostage. When I was in high school, teachers 
would tell me that because I was so “gifted,” I would 
surely be the one to make it out of the barrio and 
have the opportunity to go to college on a scholar-
ship. When I received my acceptance letter, it felt 
like all the pieces were falling into place: an Ivy-
league degree, a six-figure income, a future where 
I could give my parents a comfortable life and an 
opportunity to finally rest.


Instead, I got to Yale and came face to face with 
the reality of how institutional power permeates 
every facet of elite universities and makes it impos-
sible for marginalized students to survive their 
four years unscathed. In my classes, I sat through 
hearing my exorbitantly wealthy peers think about 
poverty and racism for the first time while my 
lived experiences were pushed aside or tokenized. 
During my first year, I learned how disposable stu-
dents are to Yale when one of my best friends was 
forced to withdraw from school because she failed 
a class when her mother had cancer. The admin-
istration’s attitude of “business as usual” during 
this pandemic and during the 2020 election has 
proven that humanity is not one of their priori-


ties. This immense pressure to perform under any 
circumstances makes it clear to me that Yale does 
not care about us—we are here to support the uni-
versity’s brand of diversity and equity, and that is it. 
Yet I continue to study for the same reason that my 
parents continue to work, because I am fulfilling a 
promise, and also because there is no other option.


On the day I went to work with my mother, we 
got home at about 4:30 in the afternoon and my 
exhausted body demanded rest from me for sev-
eral hours. I slept through dinner and didn’t wake 
up until about 9 p.m.; when I did wake up, there 
was a heating pad thrown over my back and two tab-
lets of Advil on my bedside table. My parents didn’t 
wake me up for work the next day even though 
the terms of my punishment were that I would 
continue for the rest of the summer. Every time I 
think about how my parents didn’t want me to put 
my body through for even one more day what they 
have theirs for decades, I start to cry. I don’t know 
how I’m supposed to allow myself to rest. I haven’t 
earned it.


When I wander around my neighborhood, I pic-
ture how many generations of farmworkers have 
lived and died here, how many bodies have decayed 
and resisted here, and I allow myself to feel a little 
hope. I remind myself that the problem didn’t start 
with me and that it probably won’t end with me, but 
that that’s okay. Although to others we may be dis-
posable, we are not to each other. That is enough 
to guarantee that the struggle for a better world will 
not end with me, and that someday it won’t be this 
way anymore.  
--Alex is a student at Yale University.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Sungmi Johnson**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 13


**Title: Memoirs of a Future World-Famous Female Jazz Saxophonist**
**Author: Caroleine James**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

 14
W
hen I was in middle school, back in Salt 
Lake City, my saxophone teacher used to 
recline in his ergonomic wheelie chair, 
rest his interlocked fingers on his gut, and tell me I 
was special. Sometimes, he would spend the entirety 
of our allotted hour telling me so. Caroleine, you’ve 
got a gift. Caroleine, you’ve got style. Caroleine, your 
tone is exceptional. This pedagogical approach irri-
tated me, not because it was unhelpful, but because it 
was redundant. I already knew I was special. I was the 
most complex, interesting, talented, attractive person 
in my acquaintance, possibly the entire world. When 
Kate Moss was fourteen, she had bow-legs and crooked 
teeth. When Joseph Smith was fourteen, he couldn’t 
even spell “arithmetic.” At fourteen, I had clear skin, a 
4.0 GPA, and the biggest boobs in my immediate fam-
ily. I could (and often did) use “defenestrate” in a sen-
tence. My theophany was just around the corner. 
To pass the time until cosmic forces swept me into 
a new life, my teacher encouraged me to audition for 
Caleb Chapman’s Little Big Band. Caleb Chapman 
was Glenn Miller for Mormon kids. His twenty-two-
piece youth swing band practiced forty-five minutes 
south of Salt Lake in a beige building wallpapered with 
awards, commemorative plaques, and gushy newspaper 
articles. On the first day of rehearsal, Caleb told the 
rhythm section to give him a twelve-bar blues. Twelve-
bar blues is a basic chord progression that spits you out 
where you started. Jazzified John Jacob Jingleheimer 
Schmidt. Caleb pointed at the kid next to me, the first 
chair alto saxophone. (I was sure this was a clerical 
error. He was in my seat.) I didn’t know it at the time, 
but his name was Evwan Hatch.* He was twelve years 
old with skinny calves, skinny ankles, skinny arms, and 
long, skinny fingers. Poor sacrificial lamb.
He stood up and took a deep breath. 
Usually, young saxophonists sound strangled. Their 
facial muscles struggle to prevent their bottom teeth 
from gouging their lower lip. You can hear the strug-
gle. You can hear the gurgle and buzz of excess saliva, 
the uncertain tongue, the lag time caused by groping 
fingers and a groping brain. Their teeth put pressure on 
the reed. The reed squeaks. Their swing is “ricky-ticky:” 
an onomatopoeic term for stilted spaces between notes. 
They’re in the dark, eyes closed, frantically stringing 
together one sound after another. Not all young saxo-
phonists, however, are “usual.”
Evan’s tone was steady, full, and bright like a bell. 
He flung glissandos into the air and they sounded cele-
bratory. His notes came to a point, they rose, they fell, 
they obeyed the dictates of comic timing. Imagine a 
beloved yet assertive uncle telling you a story he’s told 
a million times before. A good saxophone solo is like 
speaking without words. Evan spoke.
After Evan sat down, Caleb pointed at me. The chk 
chk chk of the drums was deafening. I tried 
 15



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Caroleine James**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
to recall some shred of wisdom from my teacher, but 
all I could come up with was, “Caroleine, you’ve got 
a gift.” To me, music was a piece of paper with notes 
on it, handed down by a higher power and polished in 
advance through intensive practice. None of this off-
the-cuff, stand-and-deliver nonsense. I sat out the jam 
session. 


From that day onward, Evan Hatch ruled my mind. 
He didn’t know it, but the two of us were locked in 
mortal combat: he, the cruel musical tyrant, I, the lov-
able and soon-to-be-triumphant underdog. I started 
practicing every day. I practiced in the basement and 
in my grandpa’s car. I ran scales like I was supposed 
to, worked my long tones, did that weird little waaaaa-
hyayayayaya vibrato exercise. I practiced with a stack 
of Jamey Aebersold books. After Jamey’s monotone 
“Ah one. Ah two. Ah one. Two. Three. Four,” I would 
offer up a joyless rendition of “Song For My Father.” I 
didn’t know if I was getting better because I couldn’t 
hear myself. My deafening inner monologue drowned 
out the sound of the chord changes: what’s the third 
in Eb7 wait don’t play the third that’s too obvious wait 
you missed it now we’re in Db7 what’s the third in Db7 
wait. 


The band met every week. After a couple of months, 
the rhythm section was “in pocket”1 and the 
horns “attacked together.” One afternoon, 
Caleb paused rehearsal to ask each student who 
their musical inspiration was. Michael Brecker, 
Max Roach, Dave Brubeck, Wycliffe Gordon, 
Freddie Hubbard. . .  Sitting there, listening to 
the litany of unfamiliar names, I realized that I 
didn’t know beans about jazz. I could name one 
jazz song I enjoyed (“Minnie the Moocher”), 
and that was only because it included the word 
“hoochie-coocher.” Evan liked Kenny Garrett. 
Evan Hatch, seventh-grader from American 
Fork, UT, actually listened to experimental 90’s 
post-bop with titles like “Sing a Song of A Song.” 
On purpose. 


Saxophone was my fourth favorite hobby. The 
coveted first place spot was reserved for standing 
naked in front of the bathroom mirror and pre-
tending I was on Jimmy Fallon. 
JIMMY: Caroleine, I absolutely adore your 
latest album, Special Girl. I hear the critics 
adore it too. Can you tell us a bit about your 
musical journey? 
ME: Well, Mr. Fallon—
JIMMY: Call me Jimmy. 
ME: Well, Jimmy, I may be a famous female 
saxophonist, but my road has not been an easy 
one. When I was fourteen, this kid named 
Evan Hatch punched me in the face and called me 
a bitch and said I’d never amount to a thing. I wanted 
to defenestrate him, but of course, my higher self pre-
vailed. Evan, if you’re watching this—


Evan Hatch was unaware of my underdog narra-
tive and selfishly refused to conform to it. First of all, 
he was two years younger than me—a big difference 
when you’re in middle school. Second of all, he was a 
nice person, the kind of nice you have to be when you 
have ten siblings. His laughter was high-pitched and 
1 This is a very technical jazz term. It means grooving, vibing etc. 
You know it when you hear it.	
Charlie Parker, Saxophonist known for pioneering the bebop style of jazz.


--- Page 17 ---

 17
frequent. He wore a uniform, cartoon-character style: 
thick-rim glasses, Brigham Young University t-shirt, tan 
cargo shorts, white tube socks pulled all the way up. He 
was sweet. And I hated him anyway. 


The Little Big Band experience culminated in the 
Peaks Jazz Festival, an annual event that drew musi-
cians from all over the country. Peaks was my last shot 
to turn my jazz career into an inspirational drama à la 
Chariots of Fire. Initially, I planned to play the most 
exquisite alto-sax solo ever to grace human ears, the 
kind of solo that would make Charlie Parker rise from 
his grave, hand me a Selmer Mark VI, and tell me, 
“You’ve got it, kid.” As Peaks approached, my standards 
dropped. A month away, I was willing to settle for mak-
ing Caleb cry—still a difficult feat since big band solos 
are only twelve bars. A week away, I had pared down my 
goal to “I will play a solo that doesn’t make the audi-
ence walk out en masse.” The night before the concert, 
I decided it would be better for everyone if I didn’t play 
a solo at all. I found myself back where I started: sitting 
meekly in second chair, listening as Evan caressed my 
cheek and tucked a stray piece of hair behind my ear. 
Musically, of course. Music was the only sexy thing 
about him. 


He was too squirrelly to oppress me, too comical to 
bully me, too talented to lose my imaginary competi-
tion.
Evan, if you’re reading this, no hard feelings, okay? 
You can have jazz. It’s a dying art form anyway. Plus, 
I’m going to write the next great American novel. 
So suck it.
Bitch.
--Caroleine James is a junior in Branford College.


**Title: ON BEAUTY**
**Author: Alice Yan**
**Page number(s): 18**

 18
I 
asked my mom one day how she chose my Chinese 
name, Aì Lì, or “love jasmine flower.” We were in 
the car driving back from New Haven for winter break. 
She told me it was just a phonetic transcription of my 
English name, Alice, which she had decided on before 
my Chinese name. “Your name means beauty,” she 
said. “Don’t you want to be beautiful?”


I thought about all the times that I’d been called 
beautiful.


The time I was in China, and a stranger approached 
me on the street and complimented me on my “big 
eyes.” She said she’d always wanted double-folded 
eyelids like mine. I smiled a polite smile, trying to 
mask my discomfort, and mumbled a quick “thank 
you.” I didn’t know how she wanted me to react. I 
couldn’t think of a more meaningless thing to say to 
someone. 


The time I was walking in front of Payne Whitney 
on my way back from class and a man came running 
toward me, waving his hands. He stopped in front of 
me and said that he’d just driven past me and made 
his friend stop the car so that he could get out and 
ask for my phone number. “Why don’t you put your 
number in my phone?” I said, but he was adamant 
and wouldn’t leave. He was already walking back to 
his car when he remembered to ask my name.  He 
sent me a six-second voice memo later that night. “Is 
this the beautiful girl in the black dress?”


The time I stood across from Patagonia on York 
Street and listened to a boy tell me that, no, he wasn’t 
interested in hanging out with me if I wasn’t going to 
sleep with him. I wasn’t worth more than what my 
body could offer him. All I wanted was for someone 
to want to spend time with me regardless of what I 
looked like, but that seemed more and more unat-
tainable. 


I thought about my grandmother, my laolao. She 
changed her name from “elegant and charming” 
to “always striving” when she was my age, because 
she thought her original name didn’t represent her 
ambition. She went to university when it wasn’t com-
mon for women in China and dedicated her career 
to teaching mining engineering to college students.


I thought about my mother. She came to the 
United States with nothing but a small, red suitcase 
and two hundred dollars to start a new life here as 
a PhD candidate in Wyoming. My mom raised my 
sister and me by herself while working long hours at 
a pharmaceutical company.  She would come back 
home everyday, exhausted but nevertheless yelling, 
“Lì lì, I’m home!”


I want to be beautiful like leaving your friends and 
family for an unfamiliar place so that you could give 
your future children a better life. I want to be beauti-
ful like persisting as the only woman in a department 
of men who thought they knew more than you. I 
want to be beautiful like staying up until two a.m. on 
FaceTime with your friend, doing nothing but savor-
ing their company because you told them you were 
feeling lonely. I want to be beautiful like finding out 
someone remembered a small detail about you that 
you don’t even remember telling them. I want to be 
beautiful like slowly learning that your worth is not 
tied to what one imbecilic boy said to you sophomore 
year. That’s the kind of beautiful I want to be.
--Alice Yan is a senior in Morse College.
design by Annli Nakayama



**Title: calliope**
**Author: Sarah Pillard**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
n 9th grade, I briefly thought I was in love. He was 
charming and handsome, and, better yet, he was 
entirely infatuated with me. We used to sneak away 
from our classes to see each other in the single stall 
bathroom, or under the staircase in the east wing. After 
school, we went to Giant supermarket across the street 
and he would kiss me in the dry goods section at the 
back of the store. And I loved it. But then, at the end of 
sophomore year, as we sat naked and sweaty in the back-
seat of his car, he asked me to be his girlfriend. I practi-
cally leapt out into the street, pulling on my inside out 
t-shirt and sticky shorts, and said I would call him later 
that night. I didn’t call him. Instead, I spent the night at 
my friend Annie’s house. We lay in bed together eating 
salt and vinegar chips and tapioca pudding until we fell 
asleep on our bloated stomachs. 

Twenty years removed from grocery store kissing 
and the sad pock-marked faces of fourteen-year-
olds, now in the back seat of an Uber, I suddenly am 
reminded of Jeremy, that almost-boyfriend, by the 
way the driver hums to the tunes on the radio. Equal 
parts annoying and endearing. I get out of the car in 
front of Tastee Diner, the sight of which also cata-
pults me back: this time to that high school exhila-
ration and anxiety of late nights and sneaking out, 
the once in a while successful escape from parental 
surveillance. Its smell brings back even more visceral 
memories of late drunken nights. I am going to throw 
up. Annie is sitting at one of the booths towards the 
back and I manage a feeble wave before rushing into 
the bathroom to kneel over the toilet. The dampness 
of the cold floor seeps through the knees of my pants. 
I threw up in this same bathroom after my senior 
prom. I emptied out everything that I had consumed 
that night, mostly liquid, and then wiped my nose, 
washed my face, and chewed some gum before going 
back out to sit across from my date. I had ordered 
French fries and when I finished eating them, I licked 
the salt off of each finger. I thought I looked sort of 
sexy until I felt an escaping string of spit making its 
way down my chin. 

This time, after turning my insides out into a toi-
let bowl that smells distinctly of grease and shit, just 
like it did when I was sixteen, I exit the bathroom 
to Annie. We hug, and I breathe her in, revelling in 
her smell. She, too, has the same scent as always; a 
mixture of sweat and talcum powder that gives me a 
particular sense of comfort that I realize I haven’t felt 
in the five years since we’ve last seen each other. 
“You don’t know how good it is to have you here, 
Mel. I’m glad you could make it,” she says. 
“Of course.” I don’t know what else to say, so I slide 
into the booth and stare down at the lard and syr-
up-slicked menu, not interested in opening it because 
that would involve touching the dirty plastic. I don’t 
think I could stomach the feeling of that peculiar mix 
of slime and stickiness on my fingertips.
“Anyone else coming from high school?” 
Annie shifts in her seat at my question and gives 
me a tight-lipped smile before answering. 
“Actually, it’s going to be pretty small. Mostly fam-
ily. A few of her friends.” 
“Of course,” I say, “Seems like what she would 
have wanted.” 

At this, she grimaces a bit and lets out a sound from 
the back of her throat that is closer to a bark than a 
laugh. 
“I’m not sure about that, but it’s what’s easiest for 
us, and I suppose that counts for something,” she says. 
“Aw Annie, I’m sorry. I’m fucking this all up, aren’t 
I? I want to say the right thing. But… well, I’ve never 
had a friend lose a parent. This feels weird. I’m sorry–
–” 
“It’s okay. It’s really okay.” 
She takes my hands in hers and her palms are 
damp. She squeezes my fingers and they burn under 
her clammy grasp. “Why don’t you tell me about you? 
We can talk about my mom later, but, honestly, I’m 
already feeling funeral fatigue and the damn thing 
hasn’t even happened yet. What I really want is to 
hear about you.” 

Her bony fingers still grip mine and I wonder if 
my hands are fatter. I wonder if she can tell that I’ve 
gained weight, not just in my belly, but all over, a 
little bit of extra padding for my sharp edges. My body 
is baby proofing itself, taking a lead from what I’ve 
read in countless parenting prep books: cover the fur-
niture corners, the electrical sockets, anything that 
might hurt a blundering and curious child. The extra 
fat around my bones preemptively protects what is 
growing inside of me. 

When I returned home from my first semester 
at college, I drove Annie to the Planned Parent-
hood clinic forty-five minutes from where we lived. 
Unplanned pregnancy was scary, but not unheard of 
in our town. Annie left the clinic emptied of what 
had been there when we arrived, but with a compre-
hensive plan for more reliable birth control. 

That weekend, Annie’s mom was away working as 
a flight attendant for an international trip, so we had 
the house to ourselves. We spent both days sprawled 
on her bed watching reality T.V. about young, hot 
people somehow finding love through a series of 
inane challenges––obstacle courses, trivia, all sorts 
of multi-round games. We painted our nails hot pink 
and green, and made lumpy face masks from a recipe 
we found in a two-year-old copy of Teen Vogue. For 
dinner, we ordered pizza and even indulged in extra 
garlic sauce, sopping it up with the crusts until they 
were soggy. At night, with our limbs nestled against 
each other, Annie kicked me in her sleep. When we 
woke up, the blanket that we had both fallen asleep 
under covered only me. 

Annie’s mom came home Sunday night and roused 
us from the near-catatonic state that had gripped us 
both all weekend. I had spent many high school 
nights at Annie’s and when her mom was home, she 
would turn on the radio, and sing and dance around 
the kitchen while she cooked. When I stayed late 
and ate dinner with them, the three of us sat cross-
legged on the couch and slurped soup or rice and 
curry or spaghetti from purple plastic bowls. This 
time, though, she came home and slammed the door 
so hard that the house shuddered. 
“Annie––did you start boiling some water like I 
asked?” 
Annie had not, she had not even seen the text from 
her mother. Her mom came into Annie’s bedroom 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Sarah Pillard**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
and sent me out with a stare. I scurried away and 
sat in the living room, knowing that I should leave but 
not wanting to be rude and go without saying good-
bye. I could hear them in the room directly above 
me. The entire house shook with their anger. When 
the light fixture above me shattered and its pieces 
fell to the floor, I swept the glass into the trash and 
walked home.  On my way, I thought about Annie’s 
boyfriend whom she had gushed about on the phone. 
I was equal parts angry at him for managing to skip 
the whole ordeal and grateful that when it came down 
to it, it was me she wanted with her and not him. 
She married that college boyfriend five years later. 
I was a five-hour plane ride away when she went into 
labor for the first time, so I video-called in to see the 
newborn, Callie, named for Annie’s mother, whose 
full name was Calliope. A beautiful name, though I 
was tempted to ask how much say Annie had really 
had in the decision. But I could hear her mother, 
newly a grandmother, in the background of the call, 
so I held my tongue. Their second child, Adam, was 
three weeks premature and was in and out of the hos-
pital for months after the birth. I checked in most 
days, however briefly, and I swore that I would make 
the trip out to see their rapidly growing family sooner 
rather than later. But then my parents retired and 
moved to the West coast. I suddenly had even less 
reason to make the trip all the way home, which is 
how it came to be that Annie had two kids that I had 
never met, and a dead mother who I didn’t get to see 
for the last time, and colder, bonier hands than she 
had ever had before. 


At the diner, Annie orders a coffee; I ask for plain 
oatmeal and a cup of orange juice. It’s a far cry from 
our high school orders of mozzarella sticks and onion 
rings that left grease stains on our sweatshirts, or 
milkshakes and sundaes with chocolate syrup drip-
ping down mounds of ice cream. Over the meal, if 
it can be called that, our catch-up is perfunctory. We 
pay the check and for a moment, sit in silence. 
“How about we walk down to the cove? We can 
talk a bit more on the way,” I say, suddenly desperate 
to get outside. 

The day after our high school graduation, Annie 
and I ate shrooms smushed into peanut butter and 
jelly sandwiches and spent the whole day at the 
cove––really a sewage pipe that runs into a pond in 
the woods across from our high school. There’s a path 
that goes around the pond and we walked along it 
in our bare feet, luxuriating in the moss and mud 
between our toes. At some point during the day, we 
laid down in a patch of grass; I felt both nauseated 
and exhilarated by the psychedelics working their 
way through my system. I basked in my sweat and 
in Annie’s company and cried at the beauty of an 
unleashed Australian shepherd that bounded towards 
us on the path. 

It was hot that day, almost 100 degrees, and the 
east coast humidity bogged our bodies down, but we 
wore shorts and tank tops and tied our hair up. Today, 
I am wearing jeans, because it has always seemed to 
me like adult women who work don’t wear shorts––
we are allowed dresses or slacks, jeans for our casual 
outings. The walk from the diner to the cove is only 


---

 23
about 15 minutes and on the way I tell her about the 
kids in my 7th grade class and about my parents’ new 
retiree hobbies. When we get to the path, we sit at a 
bench that has been here for longer than either of us 
have. 
“Annie.” 
She waits. 
“I’m pregnant,” I say without looking at her. I 
hadn’t wanted to tell her that while she was saying 
goodbye to her own mother, I was in those first giddy 
stages of becoming one. The day she called to tell 
me her mom was dead, I was on my way to my first 
ultrasound. 
“I’m raising it, him or her, by myself and it’s exactly 
what I want. I’m really very happy,” I continue. I am 
met with silence and when I finally look over, Annie 
is crying. 
“I’m so happy for you,” she finally says. “I’m so 
happy for you.” 
The last time we were here together, seventeen 
years ago, we sat on this same bench. At the time, 
I was exhausted. The salt from my tears had dried 
into a barely perceptible crust around my eyes. After 
hours of sharing our every thought and marveling at 
the sights around us, Annie and I had fallen silent. 
For a moment, I had thought that maybe she was 
asleep, but then I felt her head come to my shoulder 
and her arm slink around my waist.
This time, I snake my arm behind her back and 
squeeze her torso. My neck doesn’t nestle into her 
shoulder quite as well as hers did mine when we were 
teenagers, but the heat from her body lets me know 
that this is still Annie. 
--Sarah Pillard is a senior in Silliman College.



**Title: Teaching Under Triage**
**Author: Alice Yan**
**Page number(s): 24**

 24
Teaching Under Triage
By ALICE YAN
T
eaching, in certain ways, is a performance art. The 
teacher, lecturing before a hall brimming with stu-
dents, is the prima ballerina in a Tchaikovsky ballet or 
Lin Manuel Miranda in Hamilton. And, according to 
Shelly Kagan, “performing to an empty theater is just 
completely different from performing to a live audience 
where you’re getting their presence.”

Shelly Kagan’s face fills my computer screen as I’m 
listening to his analogy. He’s in his home office with 
bookcases filled with leather-bound spines behind him. 
The more I talk to him, the more I begin to understand 
why he’s one of Yale’s most popular lecturers. His class 
on “Death” has been so well-received that Yale turned it 
into an Open Yale Course, allowing the public to expe-
rience Kagan and his philosophical teachings. His stage 
presence is captivating, and his passion for whatever 
subject he’s talking about never gets lost, even through 
a computer screen. When he speaks, he leans into the 
camera, close enough that I can see my own reflection 
in his glasses, making it feel like he’s divulging a secret 
rather than speaking about Zoom’s shortcomings. 

Kagan, Clark Professor of Philosophy, is teaching a 
Normative Ethics seminar and a lecture titled “Life” this 
semester, but hasn’t been on campus since March. He is 
not the only professor who hasn’t stepped foot on cam-
pus since the start of the pandemic.

As Yale wraps up its first-ever completely online 
semester, I sat down virtually with five tenured Yale 
faculty members, most of whom have been teaching 
for several decades, to see how they’ve been handling 
online teaching while simultaneously coping with the 
pandemic. While some professors found the transition 
to virtual teaching smooth, others found it frustrating 
and laborious. Some have found more free time for vari-
ous recreational pursuits, while others feel drained after 
a long day of shouting into a microphone the size of a 
large water bottle (more on that later). 

After hours of conversations in front of grainy screens, 
I realized that, in a lot of ways, we may be more similar 
to our professors than I’d previously thought. Along with 
the technical challenges of teaching online, our profes-
sors are dealing with personal obstacles just like every-
one else. What started out as conversations about Zoom 
quickly turned into ruminations on pandemic life, nos-
Design by Brian Chang



**Title: The Pandemic's Impact on Yale Professors**
**Author: Alice Yan**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 25
talgia for the past, and uncertainty about the future.


Only a few classes, such as laboratory and art classes, 
met in-person this semester. Most other classes ran com-
pletely virtually, including Shelly Kagan’s two philoso-
phy courses.


Kagan, a self-described Luddite, admits that he’s been 
struggling with Zoom and prefers to write on his chalk-
board than on the program’s virtual whiteboard. He 
attributes his technological struggles to his age, before 
adding that he purchased his first smartphone only a 
year ago. Before that, he’d been using a hand-me-down 
flip phone.
“I’m an old man. I’m set in my ways. I do not like 
change,” he said.


Three of the professors I interviewed pointed out their 
age when describing their challenges adapting to virtual 
teaching. Joseph Altonji, Thomas DeWitt Cuyler Pro-
fessor of Economics, said that he’s “too much of an old 
dog to learn the new tricks.”


Age was another important factor to consider when 
deciding whether or not to meet in person. Altonji con-
sidered having one introductory meeting in-person for 
his undergraduate labor economics seminar but ulti-
mately decided against it, saying that he would have 
been “slightly uncomfortable,” even if they met outside.


Marcia Inhorn, William K. Lanman Jr. Professor of 
Anthropology and International Affairs, also felt uneasy 
with meeting in-person. “I would not consider meet-
ing [in-person] in a seminar format because of age and 
COVID. I do not want to get COVID-19. I don’t want to 
spread it to my family.”


Most of the professors I spoke with are between fifty 
and sixty-four years old, an age group four times more 
likely to require hospitalization for COVID and thirty 
times more likely to die when compared to most under-
graduates at Yale, according to the CDC.


Teaching virtually has come at a cost for Kagan, 
beyond just having to deal with technological chal-
lenges. He laments that he can no longer receive the 
constant feedback from his environment that he usu-
ally gets from lecturing in-person. The rustling of bod-
ies if he’s being boring, the subtle “huh”s as students are 
thinking about a question he just posed––all of it is lost 
on Zoom. 
“I feel the difference. I feel stiffer lecturing. I feel less 
in the flow,” he added.


Some professors, unlike Kagan, feel too much in the 
flow. Altonji misses being interrupted by spontaneous 
questions from his students, saying that oftentimes this 
semester he would lecture for ten minutes without inter-
ruption. William Nordhaus, Sterling Professor of Eco-
nomics, has the same problem and reminds himself not 
to “go on and on and on.” Laughing, he says, “[Zoom] is 
not a very lively medium.”


As I talked to more professors, I found that the prob-
lems we students face with virtual classes are compara-
ble, yet still vastly different from the ones our professors 
face. Sure, we might all experience the occasional bad 
WiFi connection, but if their Internet goes down, a class 
of one hundred students is left in silence. If ours goes 
down, we can get the notes from a friend or watch the 
lecture later on Canvas. Their problems seemed to be 
amplified versions of ours, because they have to manage 
a class on top of dealing with whatever obstacles may 
arise.


Beyond the classroom, professors had to confront 
their own personal challenges as well. One common 
theme links them all together—a longing for the past. 
Nordhaus says that he’s been back to his office a few 
times to pick up books and “look nostalgically at all the 
things [he’s] missing.”


What Altonji misses deeply is regular social interac-
tion with his colleagues and students. Along with his 
classes, all of his professional conferences have been 
moved online as well. “You can get a fair amount out of 
the presentations but you don’t have conversations with 
people about what they’re working on or even just how 
they’re doing,” he said. 


Marcia Inhorn has been staying in her house with her 
husband and children as much as possible. She laments 
not being able to see her elderly parents, who live in 
another state. 


Inhorn added, “It’s really been tough to be so sepa-
rated from family that I would’ve certainly seen this 
year.”


Shelly Kagan and his family have also been minimiz-
ing the amount of time they spend outside of the house, 
resulting in his family’s use of Instacart for their grocer-
ies. The online orders sparked a philosophical debate in 
his household. “It means we don’t have to go into the 
grocery store, but we’re sending somebody else into the 
grocery store, so they’re at greater risk. Who is this per-
son that’s being sent into the grocery store? This person 
will be either somebody who’s lost their job or needs the 
extra money. So basically I’m taking advantage of the 
fact that I’m comfortable financially to make somebody 
else take the risk for me. Is that morally legitimate?” 


Even philosophizing has grown more difficult. He 
finds that, when staring into space — the main way he 
ponders philosophical questions — fewer thoughts are 
coming to his mind. He succumbs easily to distractions 
on his computer from the newest New York Times 

--- Page 26 ---

 26
headlines about COVID or the election. He says, rather 
drily, that all of this falls under what he calls “pandem-
ic-induced stupidity.”


I resonated with the relatability of his comment. I 
didn’t think I would have much in common with some-
one who had to use a slide rule in his math classes. I 
thought about my version of Kagan’s pandemic-in-
duced stupidity. It’s having to read the same paragraph 
three times because I’m thinking about how I only 
walked 2,000 steps today. Or not realizing I’d missed a 
meeting with my dean because I was too busy reading 
COVID-related predictions in the Times. 


With challenges, however, come solutions. After all, 
the professors I spoke to didn’t get to where they are 
without adapting and overcoming obstacles.


In an effort to “simulate as close as possible the real-
life experience,” Kagan asks his students in his seminar 
to keep their videos and microphones on at all times “so 
when they’re ready to jump in they don’t have to fumble 
around and unmute themselves.” Much to his delight, 
his students love to talk, so he hasn’t seen a drop in 
engagement in his seminar.


Although Altonji has noticed a dip in participation, 
he’s found that one-on-one interactions with students 
work great remotely. Because of the ability to share 
screens, he can easily review his students’ empirical 
projects with them. “The medium works very well for 
one-on-one advising,” he said. “I can just as easily meet 
with a student at eight at night as I can at nine in the 
morning.”


William Nordhaus also loves the flexibility and con-
venience of Zoom. He’s looking forward to not trekking 
a mile through the snow in the middle of winter to get to 
class.  In terms of long distance travel, a few weeks ago, 
he gave a talk in Italy and didn’t have to board an air-
plane. The setup time for his Zoom classes is a lot less 
than for a normal in-person class, and he’s happy about 
the few hours a week saved just in terms of logistics.


Along with all the challenges, the pandemic has also 
brought small joys to the daily lives of some professors.


Smiling, Professor Inhorn tells me about how her 
millennial children have been home since the spring. 
“We’re living together for the first time in years. Person-
ally, as a mother, it’s been fantastic. It would’ve never 
happened otherwise.”


Professor Altonji has also been spending more time 
with his family, now that he doesn’t have to commute to 
New Haven from his home in Madison, Connecticut. 
He speaks fondly of hiking, cycling, and playing tennis 
with his wife, all things he wouldn’t have done regularly 
had he been working from his office on Hillhouse Ave-
nue.


Moira Fradinger, Associate Professor and Director 
of Undergraduate Studies for Comparative Literature, 
is the only professor I spoke with who has an in-person 
component to her course this semester. Her graduate 
class on key concepts in psychoanalysis meets in-person 
and is streamed via Zoom for those who cannot physi-
cally attend.
“After Trump’s administration decided to put a ban or 
to limit the access of foreigners to American universities 
if they did not have an in-person component, I volun-
teered in my department to offer a hybrid class… so that 
foreigners could apply for this as a credit.”


This semester has not been easy for Fradinger. The 
first room she was given in Old Campus had only two 
small windows offering poor ventilation and was not 
large enough to accommodate a seminar of fifteen 
socially distanced people. After three weeks in this 
room and a second attempt at finding a different one, 
Fradinger was given an appropriately sized room in Ros-
enfeld Hall. A permanent classroom found, she now had 
to determine how to have everyone’s voices be heard.


In each meeting, she couldn’t walk around but had 
to stay in the same place with a large microphone a 
few feet away from her, which was supposed to record 
in-person conversation so that the virtual participants 
would be able to listen and participate in the discus-
sion. Even though the microphone was the size of one 
seltzer bottle (as she describes it), it was not sensitive 
enough. Because the students were spread six feet apart, 
it wouldn’t pick up their voices. To try to find a solution, 
Fradinger asked a theater student to teach everyone 
in the class how to properly project their voices with-
out having to move closer to the microphone and risk 
breaking social distancing, and Classroom Technology 
& Media Specialists Tony Sudol and Paul Auringer was 
instrumental in providing the microphone and helping 

--- Page 27 ---

 27
her throughout the semester.


Issues with the microphone, coupled with connec-
tion issues from the streaming program, left Fradinger 
drained after each class. “I finished with such an exhaus-
tion every Wednesday,” she said. …“my semester has 
been consumed by learning how to make it work. The 
technological preparation––being there half an hour 
before… staying afterwards to clean, my Wednesdays 
were completely useless because I was so exhausted. 
My voice was hoarse and pretty much out because I was 
shouting for two to three hours.”


Through all of the difficulties, Professor Fradinger 
found some positives that came from teaching her 
hybrid course. The students grew attached to each 
other, which was one of the reasons that Professor 
Fradinger cites for keeping the in-person component, 
even though she had considered going fully virtual 
many times throughout the semester. 
“I really found the group of students fantastic, and 
[we] managed to create an atmosphere in which we 
were all together in making an effort to cope with poor 
technology,” she added.


During my interview with Professor Fradinger, I was 
sitting in the passenger seat of a car that was driving 
through rural Pennsylvania, so I inevitably lost signal a 
few times. Every time I reconnected, she always had a 
calm smile on her face, assuring me that everything was 
fine in response to my frantic apologies. I imagine this 
sort of patience was necessary to overcome all of the 
technological and organizational challenges she faced 
this semester.


Marcia Inhonrn’s teaching isn’t the only aspect of her 
academic experience that’s changed. Her research has 
been completely reshaped by the onset of the pandemic. 
She is currently working on a project on infertility and 
assisted reproductive technologies. Anthropologists of 
reproduction, like herself, are concerned about the ways 
that COVID has affected reproduction, including the 
shutting down of in-vitro fertilization centers around the 
world. 
“It’s caused further delays for people who are feel-
ing up against the biological clock, if you will. There’s 
been a lot of grief about that. What is it going to mean? 
Is COVID going to be the reason that I never end up 
having children?”


I compared my own pandemic-related problems to 
those of Inhorn’s research subjects. All of a sudden, they 
didn’t seem that significant anymore, which isn’t to say 
that they aren’t still legitimate concerns. But, I’m fortu-
nate, as I’m not up against the so-called biological clock, 
and the pandemic hasn’t severely disrupted my life and 
family planning. The minimization, which is different 
from trivialization, of my own issues is comforting.


As I hit the “stop recording” button on my phone and 
thanked Professor Altonji for his time, he surprised me 
with a question. He asked me how I was doing. The last 
time I’d seen him was last May in an economics seminar 
I’d taken. I looked at his face on my computer screen for 
a minute. His hair had grown long, and he was wearing 
a casual fleece sweater instead of the button-downs I was 
used to seeing him wear. I thought about his question. 
How was I doing?


I said I was doing well because I really was doing 
well. I told him about how much I was enjoying being 
home after a semester in New Haven. He told me about 
the trails and forest preserves he and his wife had been 
exploring. I couldn’t remember the last time some-
one asked me how I was. Talking to Professor Altonji 
about the small joys we were savoring in our lives was 
a nice escape from the pressures that this pandemic has 
brought. His simple question left me with a smile on my 
face long after our call ended.
-- Alice Yan is a senior in Morse College.



**Give and Take**
**Author: Alexandra Galloway**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the city, even the sunsets are gray. Through the window 
of the apartment, the sun sinks into the sea. Its light rip-
ples across the water, tinting the murky water golden before 
drowning under the waves. All the light in the apartment 
dies with it, leaving Michael alone in the shadows. The door 
opens, and Sarah walks in, startling to see him. She drops 
her purse, spilling its contents all over the floor. The stream 
of light from the door casts light on the Star Trek mug in his 
hand. Spock gazes back at her, disapproving and cold.
Michael, what the hell do you think you’re doing? 
I’m leaving. 
Yeah, no.
What? You said I could have the Star Trek mug.
I don’t care about the mug. You can’t have him.
Are you shitting me, Sarah? We already talked about this.
Yeah, and I said no.
You told me to come pick up my stuff. That’s what I’m 
doing. 
He’s not yours.
That’s bull, and you know it. 
He’s staying right here. 
You don’t even have a fucking backyard in this shitty 
apartment. 
Tom walks him to the park. 
Christ. You can’t be serious. Tom? 
He fucks my wife, and now he’s going to steal my dog? 
Jesus, Michael.
You know what? He can have you. I don’t give a shit. 
But that asshole can’t have my dog. 
He’s not your dog. He’s never been your dog.  
What? Just ‘cause he’s been staying here means he’s not 
my dog? 
I’m the one that took him in. 
We took him in. And I’m the one who actually watched 
him while you were off doing God knows what. 
I was working, Mike. You know, when you were lying on 
the couch all day. 
’m a writer. I was at home writing. 
Yeah, whatever you say. 
Well, at least, I wasn’t off sleeping with the entire office. 
You know that’s not fair. 
Oh, sorry. At least I wasn’t off screwing my husband’s best 
friend. 
Fuck you. 
You know, I think I’ve already been fucked over enough. 
How many times do I have to apologize? 
Like, I’m sorry for falling in love with someone who isn’t a 
complete asshole. 
Thanks for that. I could really feel the sincerity. 
You complete and utter ass.
Honey, you’re making me blush. 
You always pull this shit. 
What? 
Knock it off. You know exactly what you’re doing. 
This whole screwed-up comedy routine. 
Didn’t know you felt that way about it.
Yeah, you don’t know a lot about me. 
Well, I know you’re not keeping the damn dog. 
I’m keeping the dog. 
The kids miss him, you know. 
You’re going to keep him from the kids? 
You’re really going to hold them over me?  
Yep. 
When are you going to stop punishing me? 
Whenever it stops making me feel better. 
I hate you. 
I know. 
Do you hate me? 
I should hate you. Fuck. I don’t know. 
When did we get so fucked up? 
Who knows?


Do the kids miss me? 
They miss the dog. 
Asshole. 
We all miss you. 
Huh. 
That’s all you’re going to say? ‘Huh’? 
Uh-huh. 
How did I ever love such a cold bitch? 
You tell me. 
Guess I thought you looked sad. Thought I could 
make you laugh. 
Hm.
Are you? 
Am I what?
Sad? 
Sometimes. You know, I guess, it doesn’t matter. 
What doesn’t matter? 
You can take the dog. 
Seriously? 
Yeah. 
You’re just going to let me take the dog, the 
house, the kids, everything? 
Yeah. Screw it. You’ll never get what you really 
want anyway.
Yeah, and what’s that? 
Me. You can’t have me. And you’ll never get me 
back. 


**Poem, 12.1.20 (Deadline Blues)**
**Author: Sophie Kyle Collins**
**Page number(s): 30**

How badly I want to write
 you something new
 journal,
But all year long it’s been the same
 Poems, over and over
The pine branches look like thin ribs again
 the spruces in their robes that drape 
The pond like hammered silver, again
 flinging the light off tiny waves
The hens move in one bob still again
 they gather at the fence in trailing shape
And will it always feel like the chilled spring,
 when they sent us packing?
As I was driving back on I-95,
 the raindrops huge slow and hard,
I did see something new from my car
 a black knot of birds exploded 
 right when one raindrop hit so loud 
I thought I could hear the flock breaking apart
/
 you something true
But if I didn’t live this out 
 someone else would —
Just pulling on a loose thread again,
 to fray a pattern or fix a stitch 
Time feels like a hem, again
 and pain is fabric caught in the clip,
 sew machine running up seams, again, 
 bunching them up, hearing them split
Will you always do them like you did me,
 setting up for tailored dread?
Well, I saw Bunny in the window 
And I tell you I almost called out 
 lady, wearing his clothes 
 won’t make you his baby
You must dress yourself, can’t dress no one else,
 can’t dress for two, hung up like a coatroom
But I know how it feels to look nice in costume
 you something rude
But if I start ragging on him
 Soft love tut-tuts me
Around and inside me, again
 — the stretch of silence, counting penalty
Fastened tight, rocking slight, again
 — defer, defer blame, defer decision to infinity
Breath, felt and held, again
 — withdrawal, a weapon, and softening, my currency 
Will I at least get back my simple heat
 now that nobody’s juking me?
 
 Suppose it did come rather easy 
 to breathe with Cas on a roof on Dwight 
 swapping selves in broad daylight,
And snowy Noah came soliciting, 
 readily enough, bold joyful pressing, 
Oh, once I’d kissed Kathleen a sec
 for days I couldn’t get 
 her waking up naked out of my head, 
Then this dream of you looking seedy 
 sucking a cigarette, making me queasy
How badly I want to write, 
but I mirror a body 
 of work been here twenty years
My breasts in ellipse like bells again
 ringing when I sit up and settling apart,
 arranged on my chest, whole bells again 
 competing with my shoulders for Most Graceful Rounded 
Part
My mind is mirror-manifest again
 and when I move, it moves, and when I jump, it starts
Will I get by looking like this 
 won’t I ever have something to make?
Well, I tried whittling in the park
The wood was lightweight from my yard 
 I cut away a handle of three shapely knots
When I got to the basin of my spoon
 the wood revealed its rot, and I 
 can’t do much but strain soup
Got a nice spoon that can’t serve or scoop. 
journal
The pines the pond the farm the hens
The seam the stitch the fraying ends
The breath the dark the mouth the bed
The breast the mind the heart the rest 



**Title: It was a Tuesday unlike others**
**Author: Lucy Zhu**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 31
It was a Tuesday unlike others 

I, dressed in charmeuse
color my lips 
red
I, another woman

She’s brilliant, 
wise but dynamic
she meets you on the
corner
brown eyes ecstatic

The light turns green, and
she starts walking
have you ever seen
a fat llama 
dancing?
You laugh
she’s funny, but
wait.

Scene one, take 
four
I’m just reading lines
it says to be funny. 
Go,

The next one is yours

You’re from Missouri, 
youngest of five
your father writes novels
your mother 
loves art.

We pause for coffee
on the side of the street
specks of 
pastel
fall from the trees

It’s my turn to
share
she waves goodbye, 
you ask me questions–
family and 
dreams

But twenty-one
years!
what words do I
use to share them with 
you?

Scene two, take
one

I beg her to speak, but
only I, am 
left, 
alone on the stage.

A stream of words
pour, 

Slowly 
at first, but then 
racing,
spilling, 
pushing you out—

Our final scene together, on
a Tuesday like every
other.


**Title: Drifting Down the Stream**
**Author: Nimram Shergill**
**Page number(s): 32**

 32
A pair of warm gloved hands  
sets a new toy boat drifting down the stream.  Carried 
along by the current, gently it is rocked,  back-and-forth 
and back-and-forth.  
Its stream is but one of several streams with several boats. 
Torrential eddies, smooth streamflows,  
directions shifted in the wake of other vessels––the naive 
toy boat may encounter these along the waves.  
Sometimes the water is frigid  
though the sun radiates warmly against it.  
Sometimes plants and pebbles and predators  try to over-
whelm the lone toy boat,  
turn its bow one way or another.  
Sometimes the rain stings the deck,  
but remember the rain comes in a cycle:  
it will come and it will go. 
Aging toy boat, try as its foes might,  
there is only one possible direction to go: 
forward.  
There is a buoyant force  
lifting the hull when it threatens to go under.  
The waning toy boat will keep on drifting.  
The sun steals its color bit by bit. The water wears its 
edges.  Eventually it will break, but ebbing toy boat,  
the journey was quite incredible, wasn’t it?


**Title: Sestina**
**Author: Abigail Sylvor Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 33**

 33
During what they might later call a diseased summer,
or The Second Great Mortality, we had a house 
in a wooded area with a flat, dirty roof 
and a swimming pool so blue on the bottom that the water
looked how it might in a line-drawing, the sun a lemon.
I didn’t remember inviting over strangers, 
and yet, the kitchen became full of strangers
smelling like fish, or dust — their summer 
jobs. They hovered opposite the sink and peeled a lemon.
It was when I saw the twisted rind on the rim of a glass that I disowned the house—
Not mine. A place replete with skinless fruit and little pools of water, 
alien spillage, even on the roof.
I feared someone would skitter off the roof.
They swayed with such abandon. I distracted myself with stranger
thoughts, running the crusty dishes under water, 
realizing they might later call it a domestic summer:
an experiment in the love between man or woman and house,
testing how long the sheets can smell like lab-born lemon.
No one had more lives than the lemon.
We found it everywhere, the rug, the bed, the roof
of the mouth. In hilarity, we scoured the house
for other gifts, hunted for clandestine weapons, and donned the sweaters of a stranger. 
I think it was an old man’s wardrobe for summer, 
with clothes for playing golf, and very little for the water. 
In the morning, I woke early and reached for my water,
padded through the rooms and peeled a dry lemon
off the rug. It didn’t feel like summer.
It felt like the Middle Ages, the ‘danse macabre’ parading on the roof. 
Morning made everything stranger,
except the house. 
It could be called biblical. The house,
an ark against rising flood water.
The bible, after all, is always subsuming the stranger,
such as we were. Estranged. Enclosed. Still drunk and dreading lemons. 
Eschewing every sour fruit. Seeking something with which to roof,
or line our stomachs. Seeking bread before leaving—leavened summer.
A stranger left her cardigan at the house,
in the bathroom where, all summer, the shower head spewed cold water. 
Remembering an adage about lemons, we drew the ladder away from the roof.



**Title: What’s in a Name?**
**Author: Talia Soglin**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the spring of 1979, Gary Mokotoff received 
an unsolicited letter from Israel. That is, the 
man  who sent it was named Israel Cohen, and 
he lived in Bat Yam, a city on the Mediterranean 
just  south of Tel Aviv. Israel had seen Gary and 
his wife Ruth’s names listed in the ’78-’79 reg-
istry for the high-IQ society Mensa, and he was 
intrigued by the couple’s surname. He’d noticed 
that there were very few people in Israel with 
the same name; in fact, he’d found only eleven 
Mokotoffs listed in the Tel Aviv telephone books. 
Perhaps driven by the unrelenting commonness 
of his own last name, Israel Cohen enclosed 
in his letter to Gary the names and addresses 
of those Israeli Mokotoffs. Gary, then living in 
New Jersey, wrote a set of eleven letters back to 
them:  “My name is Gary Mokotoff,” he remem-
bers, paraphrasing. “My family came from War-
saw. Are we related?”  

When Gary Mokotoff sent his eleven letters to 
Tel Aviv, he knew very little about his extended 
family and even less about his name. Over the 
years, acquaintances and business associates and 
even strangers had mentioned to him that they 
knew of Mokotoffs living in Buenos Aires and 
Australia and, yes, Israel. A door-to-door sales-
man had once told Gary’s mother that he’d had a 
piano teacher named Mokotoff in Berlin before 
the war. Gary didn’t know these people, and he 
certainly didn’t know if he was related to them. 
Over the last four decades, he has found over 
1,000 living members of the Mokotoff family, 
including relatives in Australia, Argentina, and 
England. He’s identified about 400 members of 
the family who died in Eastern Europe during 
the Holocaust. And of the living Mokotoffs, he 
has yet to find one who is not related to him.  

Like Israel Cohen, I’m drawn to unusual 
names. Growing up, my ears perked up at NPR 
host sign-offs: Renée Montagne, Korva Cole-
man, Ira Glass. When family friends got preg-
nant, I peppered them with baby name sug-
gestions. I spent hours surfing the database on 
babynamewizard.com, which charts the popu-
larity of given names from the 1880s to the pres-


ent. (My own doesn’t make a blip on the radar until 
the 1970s.) I can still remember the first time I met 
another Talia, at a children’s museum in Berkeley 
when I was about four. It felt like kind of a big deal 
for about half a minute, until I, most likely, slipped 
off to play. 

Even though I thought a lot about names as a 
child, I never really thought about my surname, 
except that I always thought my mom’s, Pearl-
man, sounded nicer than my dad’s, Soglin. Mostly, 
I was opposed to the sog-based nicknames of my 
dad’s side: Soggy Waffles, Soggy Pancakes, Soggy 
Cheerios. As I got older, “Soglin” started to feel a 
bit amorphous. Sometimes people thought it was 
Italian. I always told anyone who asked—not all 
that many—that it was Russian, Russian  Jewish. 
The only people I ever met with the name Soglin 
were the ones who were related to me, but I never 
dwelled on it much.

I 
am sitting with Gary Mokotoff in the fluores-
cent-lit back office of a building he shares with 
a public relations firm, in the historically Jewish 
neighborhood of Westville, in New Haven, Con-
necticut. From this room, he publishes the quar-
terly Jewish genealogical journal AVOTAYNU; 
the International Review of Jewish Genealogy. 
Avotaynu, Inc. is billed as the “leading publisher 
of products of interest to persons who are research-
ing Jewish genealogy, Jewish family trees or Jewish 
roots.” In addition to distributing the journal four 
times a year to about 1,300 subscribers, Avotaynu 
publishes an assortment of genealogical books, 
from the very general (Getting Started in Jewish 
Genealogy, which Mokotoff wrote himself) to the 
more specific (“Naturalized Jews of the Grand 
Duchy of Posen in 1834 and 1835.”) Mokotoff’s wife 
Ruth copy edits the articles to the classical tunes 
of WMNR radio. The journal’s editor, Sallyann 
Amdur Sack-Pikus, cajoled Gary into the publish-
er’s job at a genealogy conference in 1984, and she 
wields the red pen from her home in New Hamp-
shire.  

A small wooden tree hangs above Mokotoff’s 
desk. Its body has been carved in the shape of five 
names from his own extended family tree stacked 
atop each other: Mokotoff, Friedberg,  Taratotsky, 
Wlodawer, Cemnic. Gary, who was 82 when I met 
him last year but as sturdy as a tree, wears a pen in 
his front shirt pocket and a chunky gold chai neck-
lace—chai is the Hebrew word for life — that Ruth 
gave to him many years ago. Both his ring fingers 
bear gold rings: one is his wedding band, and the 
other, which sports the initials “J.M.,” belonged to 
his father Jack. One day, he will give it to his grand-
son Jackson. He sits with his legs crossed, reclining 
in his swivel chair. Sometimes when he talks about 
the Mokotoffs, he closes his eyes and lets his hands 
take over.  

Gary Mokotoff tells me how he discovered he 
was the only Gary Mokotoff in the world. The child 
of first-generation American Jews, Gary grew up on 
the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Even during 
his youth, he knew his name was uncommon. “If 
you knew a Mokotoff, you knew a relative of mine,” 
he tells me. But he never thought very hard about 
it, even though he thought hard about plenty of 
other things. Mokotoff matriculated at the Uni-
versity of Chicago at sixteen, where he studied, 
amongst other subjects, Gregor Mendel’s papers on 
fruit fly genetics, and went on to pioneer computer 
software at IBM in 1959. This was the age of punch 
cards; his first job was to write a program that would 
print out the computer’s entire memory.  

Mokotoff tells me that his interest in geneal-
ogy was sparked by “an act of God.” He was also 
interested by the release of the Roots miniseries 
in 1977, which piqued interest in ancestry-seeking 
nationwide. In any case, as he waited for the Israeli 
Mokotoffs to write back, he dove into the archives 
at the Fifth Avenue branch of the New York Pub-
lic Library and called foreign consulates, asking for 
their telephone books. He didn’t have much luck at 
first. But Mokotoff would in time become an adept 
archival researchist, gleaning many of his leads 
from the mid-19 th century Polish civil registration 
records kept on microfilm by the Church of the 
Latter-day Saints. Mormons believe that the souls 
of their ancestors can be saved after death, so they 
maintain extensive records to help members 


of the church find and baptize their relatives. The origi-
nal records, which contain some two billion names, are 
stored in a massive granite vault in a mountain range in 
Utah. They are not without controversy, because they list 
not just actual ancestors of church members but count-
less other people—including Jews—just in case their 
descendants one day convert to Mormonism. But the 
archives proved invaluable to Mokotoff. 

In his letters, Mokotoff had asked the Israeli Mokotoffs 
for details on their most immediate family members and 
ancestry, hoping to find a common connection. A few 
months later, when he started getting letters back, he 
noticed that in every family there was at least one man 
named Tuvia. Ashkenazi Jews name their children after 
deceased relatives, so this suggested that all the families 
were one family, linked together by a common ances-
tor. There was a catch, though: there had never been 
a Tuvia in Mokotoff’s own family. But—and Mokotoff 
says this is the key to most genealogical problems—it 
was all about knowing what questions to ask. He knew 
the Hebrew names of most of his family members. One 
day, speaking to a cousin of his father’s, he realized he 
didn’t know what his Uncle Joe’s Hebrew name had 
been, so he asked. His father’s cousin said,  “‘Uncle Joe? 
Oh yeah, I remember. His name was Tuvia.’” 

In the years that followed the discovery of his own 
Tuvia, Gary Mokotoff would go on to create the Jewish-
Gen Family Finder and the computer database for the 
National Registry of Jewish Holocaust Survivors, now 
housed at the Holocaust Museum on the National Mall. 
He was the first person to receive a lifetime achieve-
ment award from the International Association of Jew-
ish Genealogical Societies. The Forward has called him 
an “all-around makher,” or mover and shaker, of  Jewish 
genealogy. In 1993, Mokotoff retired from his software 
business and devoted himself to Avotaynu, which has 
always been self-sustaining but never exactly rolling in 
cash. When I ask him why he is so interested in names, 
in genealogy, he tells me that my question is a strange 
one. “It’s kind of like saying, what makes you interested 
in baseball?”  

When I was ten or so, I spent so much time brows-
ing the family tree my dad constructed on Geni.
com that he gave me my own log-in. The scans of old 
photos and memorabilia he had uploaded onto the site 
enthralled me: the sepia-toned baby photos of relatives 
I had known only with gray hair; the death certificate 
of my grandfather’s sister, who died of scarlet fever as 




**Title: Names**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 37
NOVEMBER 2020
an infant; the black-and-white photograph of my great-
great-grandmother Rose, or Risya, her hair wrapped, 
brows furrowed, eyes hardened into the camera. Most 
of all, I liked to look at the ship manifest, which listed 
the passengers on my great-grandfather Ari’s boat to 
New York.  

When Ari left the Russian Empire in 1912, he trav-
eled under the assumed name Yankel Kazof. Accord-
ing to family legend, he did so in order to escape the 
draft; families who had just one son could exempt that 
child, but Ari had a brother. In this telling, the Kazofs 
were either friends or neighbors without any sons to 
be drafted, or, alternatively, a family who had already 
lost a son to the military. In any case, it seems that Ari 
could not leave under his real name, which was Aaron 
Soglin, and the turn of the twentieth  century was not 
a great time to be a soldier in the Russian Army or a 
Jew in Russia, for that matter. So there he was on the 
S.S. Patricia manifest out of Hamburg: 5 feet 6 inches, 
brown hair, grey eyes, in possession of at least fifty dol-
lars. (At ten, I could have recited these attributes from 
memory.) Ari arrived at the Port of New York, from 
which he eventually made his way to Chicago. There, 
he married my great-grandmother Sarah, had three 
children, and shed the Kazof name. He went back to 
being Ari Soglin, who he was for a good four decades 
until he died of a heart attack in 1954.  

When I was born almost half a century later, my 
parents picked my last name out of a hat. Actually,  
the person who did the picking was a midwife named 
Yael Silverberg. My parents hadn’t been able to decide 
whether I would get Soglin, my dad’s name, or Pearl-
man, my mom’s; each was too stubborn to acquiesce 
to the other. Yael Silverberg plucked Soglin from the 
depths of a green Gap baseball cap and left my mom 
with a feeling of betrayal that twenty-one years later, 
still lingers. 


Over the last three decades, American genealogy 
has undergone nothing short of an explosion. A 
lot of this has to do with the Internet. JewishGen was 
founded in 1987; by the late nineties and early 2000’s, 
it had been joined by the likes of Ancestry, MyHeri-
tage, FamilyTreeDNA, Geni, RootsWeb, and 23andMe, 
not to mention newly digitized databases like the Ellis 
Island Passenger Search. The advent of DNA testing 
has attracted even more ancestry-seekers, who are 
drawn in by the allure of shiny pie charts and percent-
ages broken down to the tenth. Mokotoff has had his 
DNA tested by a number of companies, but he’s more 
interested in what the data can tell him about his living 
relatives than in determining his family’s ethnic origin. 
(Ancestry told him he was 100% “European Jewish”; 
23andMe said 99.3%.)  When he scrolls through DNA 
matches on Ancestry.com, the site can tell him how 
much DNA he shares with a relative, if that relative 
has also been tested (“287 cM across 15 segments”), and 
it can estimate the relative’s relationship to Mokotoff 
(“Third or fourth cousin”). But as Mokotoff scrolls 
through his matches, he lists off details the database 
can’t: this one’s mother is his second cousin, that  
one has a deceased father with whom he used to 
exchange letters.  

Most American Jews trying to document their ances-
try hit an immutable brick wall sometime around the 
turn of the nineteenth century. That brick wall can usu-
ally be blamed on Eastern European Jewish last names, 
or, more specifically, the utter lack of them. The pri-
mary problem with Eastern European Jewish surnames 
is that they are entirely made up. Until the beginning 
of the nineteenth  century, Ashkenazi Jews used a log-
ical but rather slippery system of patronymic naming. 
In other words, Moshe, whose father was Aaron, would 
be called Moshe ben Aaron —Moshe, son of Aaron. If 
Moshe had a son named David, David would be called 
David ben Moshe. Eventually, various European rulers 
noticed that it was rather difficult to keep track of large 
swathes of their populations if they changed their sur-
names every generation. So around the turn of the 19 
th  century, various European states began passing laws 
compelling Jews to take surnames. When Napoleon 


--- Page 38 ---

 38
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
invaded Poland in 1807, for example, he demanded the 
keeping of meticulous civil registration records. “Thank 
God for Napoleon,” Mokotoff likes to say.

But Jews were not thrilled about the prospect of 
surnames, and this general lack of enthusiasm  shone 
through in their rather haphazard approach to the pro-
cess. Sack-Pikus, the AVOTAYNU editor, describes the 
Jewish surname as a “goyishe invention forced on you 
for nefarious reasons, like taking your boys away to the 
army or taxing you.” Even once they took surnames, 
Jews felt no particular attachment to them and changed 
them with frequency, at will. Some took surnames in 
patronymic or matronymic traditions. When the come-
dian Sarah Silverman joked about an old Jew named 
“Manischewitz Gooberman,” her hyperbole wasn’t  
too far off; the surname Manischewitz comes from the 
given name Menashe, the suffix “-witz” meaning “son 
of.” Other Jews chose occupational names. Goldstein 
was a goldsmith; Fleishman a butcher. Still others took 
the names of their hometowns. Mokotoff, Gary discov-
ered, came from the name of a town near Warsaw called 
Mokotów. His great-great-great grandfather Tuvia ben 
Moshe wasn’t even from Mokotów—he lived in a neigh-
boring town called Warka—but family legend goes that 
he must’ve liked how the name sounded, which was not 
too far off from the Hebrew “ki tov,” meaning “for the 
good of God.” The name Tuvia Mokotoff, translated lit-
erally, means “God is good, for the good of God,” and 
it leads right up to Gary Mokotoff’s brick wall. Gary 
knows from a Warka death register that Tuvia’s father 
was known as Moshe Aronowicz, or Moshe, son of Aron. 
He can thus deduce that his fifth-great-grandfather’s 
first name was Aron. Aron’s ancestors are untraceable. 
A second major challenge of this entirely fabricated 
class of surnames are their spellings. Names which orig-
inated in Yiddish or Russian or Ukrainian had to be 
transliterated out of Hebrew or Cyrillic alphabets. This 
meant that names often went through the ringer once 
in ship manifests in Hamburg, the port at which many 
Jews departed from Europe, and then again, sometimes 
many times over, after those who bore them arrived in 
the States. 

It is at this point that amateur genealogists tend to 
fall back on one of the most persistent myths of Ameri-
can genealogy: they declare that their family’s name got 
changed at Ellis Island. There’s a somewhat romantic 
appeal to this narrative, but inspectors at Ellis Island did 
not even record the names of arriving passengers; they 
simply checked them against the names already listed 
on the ship manifests. Once they arrived in the Lower 
East Side, or Brooklyn, or wherever, immigrants were at 
complete liberty to change their names to whatever they 
liked, often with no legal intervention whatsoever. Jews 
occasionally lopped off errant ov’s and sky’s from their 
names in attempts at Americanization. Sometimes, 
though, they made more dramatic modifications. 

My own maternal great-grandmother was born in 
New York City as Lilly Usilewski but enrolled in pub-
lic school as a Solawisky. When her younger brother 
went to school, he was listed as Daniel Oslofsky, at 
which point their father, who’d been in the country for 
a decade or so, had apparently had enough. The judge 
he went before to change his name was called Judge 
Green, which evidently sounded nice enough to him. 
Thereafter, the Usilewski/Solawisky/Oslofskys were 
known as the Greens.  


When I ask Mokotoff about my name, he pulls out a 
big red Avotaynu-published book titled A  Dictio-
nary of Jewish Surnames From the Russian Empire. Of 
the tens of thousands of names inside, mine is not one of 
them. Mokotoff, however, is unconcerned. After some 
flipping, there, between  Tsofnos and Tsoir on page 591, 


--- Page 39 ---

 39
What Mokotoff 
can’t tell me is 
what my name 
means. I hardly 
even thought to 
ask the question, 
because it has 
been so 
unanswerable  
for so long.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Talia Soglin**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
is: Tsoglin (Gomel’, Chernigov gub.) K: see Segal (?).
When I see the entry for Tsoglin, I know it’s my family. 

In the 1990s, my grandmother had gotten in touch with a 
family in Brooklyn. Their last name was Tsoglin, and they 
came from the Gomel region in what is now Belarus, too, 
though they’d stayed in the Soviet Union until only a few 
years before. Grandma and the Tsoglins realized that they 
possessed the same family photograph from the 1910s. The 
Tsoglins turned out to be Ari’s brother Abel’s descendants, 
making them my second cousins, once removed. So 
Tsoglin (Gomel’) doesn’t tell me anything I didn’t know 
already, technically, but I’m surprised by how weighty the 
moment feels. That is where I came from, and to see it in 
print is proof.  

The only other time I had read a name so similar to 
mine was in high school. One day, as I skimmed an 
issue of Time magazine at my dining room table in Cal-
ifornia, my eyes were drawn to a byline at the bottom 
of a page. The name, in bold font, was Richard Zoglin. 
I read that byline more than twice, just to make sure. 
Then I told my dad what I’d read, wondering if I was 
on the edge of an exciting new genealogical discovery. 
But he told me that he’d already exchanged emails with 
the Zoglins. Richard Zoglin and his brother Paul had 
grandparents from Gomel, too, but they could never go 
back far enough to prove we were related.  

It turns out that the Soglin-Tsoglin-Zoglin spellings 
constitute a classic conundrum of Jewish  genealogy, 
the solution to which began in 1918, when a man named 
Robert Russell developed the first sound-matching sys-
tem, which coded letters to numbers to allow names 
to be classified by sound rather than by spelling. In 
the mid-1980s, Mokotoff and his collaborator, Randy 
Daitch, realized that the Russell system didn’t do a good 
job of matching Slavic or Yiddish-German names, so 
they created their own. In the Daitch-Mokotoff system, 
which is now used in the Ellis Island database and at the 
Holocaust Memorial Museum, letter combinations that 
make the same sounds are coded in the same way. The 
“Ts,” sound, for instance, has the same Daitch-Moko-
toff number as “Tz,” “S,” and “Z.” Double letters with 
multiple sounds—“Ch,” for example — are coded dif-
ferently for each.  

What Mokotoff can’t tell me is what my name means. 
I hardly even thought to ask the question, because it 
has been so unanswerable for so long. But Mokotoff 
tells me to call Alexander Beider, a Sorbonne-educated 
expert on Jewish names and author of our dictionary. 
When I call Beider in Paris, I’m not sure exactly what I 
want to hear.  

Alexander Beider tells me almost immediately that 
Soglin is an obviously monogenetic name, by  which 
he means a name that only one family has ever taken. 
More specifically, he means that it’s a  name one person 
in a shtetl in western Russia chose sometime in the ear-
ly-to-mid-nineteenth century. That’s what the root was. 
The Zoglins, Tsoglins, and Soglins are all branches off 
the tree that grew from that root, but Beider doesn’t 
know what they mean. His best guess is that it’s a cor-
rupted form of a Yiddish occupational name; the  “-in” 
a Russian suffix appended onto whatever now-forgotten 
word some single distant ancestor of mine chose for for-
ever. When I hang up the phone, I realize that if Beider 
doesn’t know what my name means, I probably never 
will. It might be a dead end, but it’s one that all of us 
share together. 

On my last visit to Avotaynu, Mokotoff codes my 
name for me by hand. The Daitch-Mokotoff  system 
boils names down to their consonants, then matches 
each sound to a number. Mokotoff  sounds out each 
consonant. S-G-L-N, he says, is 4-5-8-6.  
458600 Sagalin, Sakolin, Seglin, Shklyannoj, 
	
 Shkol’ne, Shkol’nyj, Skalin, Sogalin,  
	
 Sokolin, Sukhlin, Tsoglin, Zaglin,  
	
 Zaklin, Zhigalin, Ziglin  
The red hardcover is unwieldy, so Mokotoff holds one
Mokotoff at the Arolsen Archives in Bad Arolsen, Germany, looking for 
Holocaust documents of the Mokotow family (Credit: Associated Press)


**Title: Avotaynu**
**Page number(s): 41**

***
Avotaynu means “our fathers” in Hebrew, though in 
time it has come to mean “our ancestors.” It’s  one 
of the first words in the Amidah, the central prayer of 
the Jewish service, which praises God and the Biblical 
patriarchs.  

Baruch atah Adonai, eloheniu ve-lo-hei avoteinu  
Blessed are you, Adonai, our God and God of our 
ancestors  

Elohei Avraham, elohei Yitzchak, vey-lo-he Ya’akov 
[elohei Sarah, elohei Rivkah, vei-lo-hei  Rachel v’Leah] 
God of Abraham, God of Isaac, God of Jacob [God of 
Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel, and Leah]  

One day in the eighties, when he and Sack-Pikus 
were still searching for a name for their journal,  Moko-
toff heard the Amidah in synagogue. “Avotaynu,” he 
said to himself—“that’s it.” 

Gary and Ruth Mokotoff. (Credit: Gary Mokotoff)

Mokotoff tells me that he thinks on a day not so far 
away, genealogy will be over. Brick walls are brick walls, 
so there will be no tracing back to Isaac or Jacob (or 
Sarah or Rebecca or Rachel or Leah). But there will 
come a day when an eager genealogist logs onto Ances-
try or Geni and discovers that their family tree has 
already been completed. Mokotoff seems less bothered 
by this than I would have expected, but I think I hear a 
trace of emotion under the monotone.  

One day back in 1982, Gary and Ruth Mokotoff stood 
outside a stranger’s apartment in Tel Aviv. Moshe Moko-
tow wasn’t exactly a stranger, of course, but Gary and 
Ruth had never met him. From the doorstep, the two 
Americans heard some jubilance upstairs, the result of 
the gathering in Moshe’s apartment of a couple dozen 
Israeli Mokotoffs. Gary, the “all around makher” who 
had brought them all together, waited outside the apart-
ment, considering what he would say when he made it 
upstairs. Eventually, he and Ruth were retrieved from 
the doorstep by one relative or another and led into the 
fray. What he exclaimed when he walked into the room 
was this: “Shmi Mokotoff ”:  My name is Mokotoff. 




**Title: ASYNCHRONY**
**Author: Phoebe Liu**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 43
C
oncerts are my theory of relativity — they warp 
time and space. 

Before the pandemic, I used to slip into the 
backs of concert halls, restaurants, and radio 
show basements to attend two to three shows a 
week. Now, I watch livestreams while sitting in 
bed, running outside or lying on the grass with 
headphones while looking at the clouds. I know 
it’s not the same as sharing a physical space, but 
virtual concerts close the distance, sometimes 
thousands of miles of distance, between the per-
formers and me, so that we’re in the same virtual 
venue.

When I’m at a concert, virtual or otherwise, 
time always seems to bend. Some moments feel 
like eternities, in a good way — especially silent 
moments, where we feel like we are suspended 
in air, and everyone holds their breath. Other 
moments pass before I even notice, slipping away 
before I can fully grasp their presence. 

When I’m watching and listening to musicians, 
I both ignore and am hyper aware of the intricacy 
of time and how it stretches and contracts, like 
somewhat-risen sourdough. I watch, listen, feel 
for hours without realizing that time has passed. I 
notice when an ensemble is in perfect synchrony, 
or when the tiniest rhythmic detail falls out of 
step. Performers communicate complex rhythms 
with little gestures. A slight eyebrow raise. Lean-
ing ten degrees to the left. A barely-audible breath. 
They seem to read each other’s minds, perceiving 
time together, as one. And they’ve invited me, an 
audience member, to do it with them.

There’s something magical about synchrony. 
Bands, orchestras, choirs, dance groups, and 
actors — they all aim to coexist in time. I think 
back to a moment this summer when I video 
called a few fellow musicians. We’d been in a 
chamber ensemble together and had been sched-
uled (pre-pandemic) to perform Beethoven’s Op. 
59 No. 1 quartet that evening. Instead of perform-
ing, I navigated to our favorite recording of the 
piece and clicked “share computer sound.” We 
listened, and we cried. I don’t remember much 
else about the call, except how it made us feel. 
Grief, yearning, exuberance. Connectedness 
found through synchrony. A simple act of sharing 
something that’s in time. Sharing a moment in 
time. Sharing time.

Sometimes, though, despite the beauty we’ve 
found in synchrony, sharing time isn’t what we 
want or need, and learning to take things at our 
own pace doesn’t make us any less connected. 
There’s a musical exercise I’ve often turned 
to since the pandemic’s onset, during virtual 
rehearsals. Zoom lag renders synchronous play-
ing impossible. So we aim for asynchrony. We first 
agree on a word or short phrase that characterizes 
the passage. One of us gives a cue — an in-char-
acter breath to show that we’re starting. Then we 
play. We ignore that we’re not in sync. We don’t 
think about harmony, and we don’t think about 
lining up any rhythmic motifs. Using phrasing, 
physical gestures, and timbre, we instead focus 
on communicating a certain musical energy. An 
emotion. It doesn’t sound good. And that doesn’t 
matter.

So we take away the ticking milliseconds and 
obsession over synchrony that I once thought 
defined a performance’s identity. What’s left?

Grief, yearning, exuberance. The emotions 
that have been there all along, but stronger now, 
rawer. Music is our world — an imperfect sphere 
suspended in spacetime. We don’t need to under-
stand how it’s all connected. We just need to 
know that it is. 
-- Phoebe Liu is a junior in Trumbull College.



 44
meet the dogs of TNJ...
Xanto
Viego
George
Hugo
Alexandra Galloway
Madison Hahamy
Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits
Candice Wang
We’re looking for editors, writers, artists, and designers. 
Email candice.wang@yale.edu & helena.lyng-olsen@yale.edu
Follow us on Instagram @thenewjournalatyale 
Join The New Journal!
PeeBoo
Helena Lyng-Olsen

