Publication date: August 2014
Volume: 47
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD**
- publisher: Briton Park
- editors-in-chief: Eric Boodman, Julia Calagiovanni
- executive editor: Ike Swetlitz
- managing editor: Maya Averbuch
- senior editors: Katy Osborn, Noah Remnick, Ezra Ritchin, A. Grace Steig
- associate editors: Ashley Dalton, Emily Efland, Caroline Sydney, Isabelle Taft
- copy editors: Adrian Cheim, Eva Landsberg, Adam Mahler
- photo editors: Henry Ehrenberg, Jennifer Lu
- design editors: Hanh Nguyen, Annie Schweikert, Edward Wang, Madeleine Witt
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- New Cops on the Block - Michelle Hackman
- Playing the Cards Right - Maya Averbuch
- editor’s note - various authors
- points of departure - various authors
- snapshot - Caroline Sydney
- Put It to the Test - Caroline Sydney
- poetry - Carleen Liu, Ariel Katz
- critical angle - John Stillman
- Unintelligent Design - John Stillman
- personal essay - Eric Baudry
- Impact - Eric Baudry
- poetry - Hayley Kolding


**Title: New Cops on the Block**
**Author: Michelle Hackman**
**Page number(s): 14**

As states cut treatment programs, police learn to work with the mentally ill.


**Title: Playing the Cards Right**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 24**

Can an ID card help members of a vulnerable population feel at home in the Elm City?


**Title: editor’s note**
**Author: various authors**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: points of departure**



**Title: snapshot**
**Author: Caroline Sydney**
**Page number(s): 9**


**Title: Put It to the Test**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: Unintelligent Design**
**Author: John Stillman**
**Page number(s): 35**


**Title: Impact**
**Author: Eric Baudry**
**Page number(s): 39**



**Title: Lighting Up**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE NEW JOURNAL
4
points of departure
I 
took a drag, and the vapor was thick and harsh. 
The nicotine of a cigarette; the flavor of a hoo­
kah. My first taste of #VapeLife left the lungs feel­
ing clean.

Inside the brick walls of Chapel Street’s White 
Buffalo Vapors, I sat at a hardwood counter known 
as the “juice bar.” Behind the counter, shelves held 
rows of brightly colored vials of “e-juice” — liq­
uid nicotine mixed with flavored oil — everything 
from the woody notes of a heavy cigar, or a light 
strawberry blend. It was simple: choose a flavor, 
press a button on the vaporizer to heat the oil, 
and inhale. 

Since its invention just a decade ago, “vap­
ing” has exploded into a billion-dollar industry. E-
cigarettes, which seek to imitate the look and feel 
of a traditional smoking experience, are the most 
talked-about part of the trend, as a safer alterna­
tive to old-school “cancer sticks.” E-cigarettes can 
be found in gas stations and pharmacies, and they 
are relatively cheap. But, until White Buffalo Va­
pors opened in March, high-end vaping was yet to 
be found in New Haven. The pipes aren’t meant to 
replace old-fashioned smokes; crafted in the shape 
of ornate tobacco pipes or steampunk machines, 
they can cost hundreds of dollars and are meant 
for long-term use. Since it was my first time vap­
ing, I didn’t drop any cash; Noah Morganson, an 
employee, lent me his pen-shaped vaporizer.

If Chapel Street passersby happen to look in 
these days, they’d probably see a handful of peo­
ple inside, talking and vaping. But the owners of 
White Buffalo — Sammy Chamino, Sasha Zabar, 
and Max Young, all avid vapers and ex-smokers un­
der thirty — have big plans for the space. They 
started with a register, some mismatched furni­
ture, and a small case featuring a few expensive 
vaporizers, but now they are dreaming big: coffee, 
live music, a rustic vibe. This August, they tore out 
a drop ceiling and linoleum flooring to expose an 
old white tin roof and pine floor, leading all the 
way to a small back patio area, in preparation for a 
grand opening in the fall.

“We’ve had escaped convicts and police, 
firemen, and bus drivers. And lots of hipsters,” 
says Young, a quiet man with a dark beard and 
mustache. “We want to continue that kind of 
diversity.”

But the crew is still fighting against public 
distrust. E-cigarettes have exploded onto the mar­
ket without any comprehensive health studies or 
FDA regulation, leading to a frenzy of media hype: 


**Title: editor’s note**
**Author: Julia Calagiovanni & Eric Boodman**

Welcome to the August issue of the New Journal! Around 
here, we talk to strangers. We tell stories. We take our time. 
Also, we like to write.

In the last few months, we rode along with police officers, puffed on e-cigarettes, and became world 
renowned for our inventions (almost). We thought about what’s happening in New Haven these days. 
We hope you’ll follow along on our journeys.

As always, we welcome all students—freshmen and seniors; rookies and experts; writers, photogra­
phers, designers, and business managers—to join the New Journal community! Contact us at editors@
thenewjournalatyale.com if you’re interested in getting involved.

With our best wishes and highest hopes for the year ahead,


Julia Calagiovanni & Eric Boodman, 

Editors-in-Chief

Dear reader,



**Title: White Buffalo Vapors**
**Author: Tim Follo**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AUGUST 2014
5
rumors of a suicide by liquid nicotine injection, 
reports that e-juice shares ingredients with anti­
freeze, accusations that the industry deliberately 
markets to kids by offering flavored juices. Some 
concerns are justified, because e-juice spilled on 
skin can be fatal, certain low-quality juices are in­
deed made with toxins, and no data on the possible 
effects of second-hand smoke from e-cigarettes 
exists. But the owners of White Buffalo Vapors 
insist that they only sell high-quality, domestic, 
natural juice, and they do support certain precau­
tions, like age restrictions on purchases. For the 
most part, though, they bring a playful attitude to 
their “vapeangelism” advertising, making liberal 
use of the #VapeLife hashtag and posting tweets 
like “Our #ecigs have all been sanctified & carved 
with protection sigils. No demonic influence in 
our vapes! Enjoy PURE flavor.”


On online forums, vapers are defensive of 
their choices, calling out people they dub “ANTZ” 
(Anti Nicotine and Tobacco Zealots). They pro­
vide testimony of their improved health since 
switching from analog cigarettes, and rejection of 
perceived anti-vape “scare tactics.” But at White 
Buffalo, the wacky group of vapers I meet are 
downright friendly, eager to bring new members 
into the fold; one tells me vaping turned him into 
a hobby electrician, since he worked on his vapor­
izers, while another describes how users will fin­
ish a single bottle in the shop by smoking over 
several hours.


Chamino, an energetic man who sports a wiry 
beard and army style jacket, points out that the 
customer base for vaping is as wide as that of 
cigarettes, including everyone from “blue collar 
workers to trendy Hollywood people.” That diver­
sity brings an eclectic feel to the shop, but it may 
make it difficult to built cohesion there. Still, as 
people linger and vape, they bond over their fringe 
subculture.


They’re setting out to create a new communi­
ty and establish an industry. Vaporizers, still in the 
wild west of untested products, owe some of their 
cool to pure novelty, but the goal of the White 
Buffalo folks is to stay ahead of the herd, and cre­
ate a spot where vapers will come to stay.  
SAMMY CHAMINO, MAX YOUNG, AND 
SASHA ZABAR, CO-OWNERS OF THE 
WHITE BUFFALO, OPENED NEW HAVEN’S 
FIRST E-CIGARETTE LOUNGE IN MARCH. 
PHOTOS BY JENNIFER LU.





--- Page 6 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
6
knobs for the car radio. I worry 
that I will find a body inside, 
but instead I find a rusty paint 
scraper and a pair of shoelaces. 
The stuffing explodes out of the 
back seat, but I cannot locate 
the animal that has been gnaw­
ing on the fabric. The odometer 
reads 67,256, and a 1994 New 
York emissions test sticker in­
dicates the exact same mileage. 
Either the odometer is broken 
or this car was moved from New 
York to Yale’s Pierson-Sage ga­
rage two decades ago.
The New York State Depart­
ment of Motor Vehicles doesn’t 
help, but not for lack of trying. 
A license plate search returned 
no registration or inspection 
records — records are deleted 
after ten years of no activity, ac­
cording to Pete Bucci, the de­
partment’s public information 
officer. The decaying sticker 
provides the only evidence of 
this car’s strange journey.
While nobody — except 
one intrepid journalist — seems 
to have been thinking about this 
car in over a decade, parking lot 
patrons are taking note of other 
abandoned cars. On the top lev­
el of the garage sits an old pick­
up truck. Its flat tires hint that 
it hasn’t been driven in a while, 
but that hasn’t stopped people 
from using it — as a trash dump. 
Garbage litters the Chevy’s bed. 
Broken windshield wipers poke 
through a layer of plastic bottles, 
coffee cups, and rusty hubcaps. 
I can’t find the shredded docu­
ments; maybe they have already 
decomposed.
Someone has stuck a note 
underneath the windshield wip­
er that reads, “Is this truck for 
sale? If so, let me know.” I give 
Bill, the man who left the note, 
a call. He says that he noticed 
the pickup in July 2013, because 
his son has an identical one that 
needed some spare parts. Now, 
at the end of August, he hasn’t 
received a call back. When I re­
turn to the garage, the note is 
gone, but the truck remains.
It’s unclear why the truck 
hasn’t 
been 
removed. 
The 
A TARP-COVERED CAR IN THE BOWELS OF THE PIERSON-SAGE PARKING GARAGE. PHOTO BY JENNIFER LU
U
nder the cover of darkness, 
we drive into the Pierson-
Sage parking garage, just north 
of Yale’s Science Hill. It is night­
time in mid-March. Two recent 
graduates, now Yale employees, 
promise a juicy story. I can’t help 
but think of the scene in “All 
the President’s Men” when Bob 
Woodward coaxes the Water­
gate story out of an informant in 
a parking garage in Washington, 
D.C. But our target that night is 
not a national scandal (though I 
still kept my hopes up); it is an 
unlikely fleet of abandoned cars.
“Welcome to the graveyard 
of elephants,” one of the Yale 
employees says as we descended 
into the bowels of the garage. 
We creep up on a handful of 
tarp-covered cars, vaguely re­
sembling sleeping pachyderms. 
Upon closer inspection, three or 
four of the cars appear luxurious 
enough to belong in someone’s 
private collection. One stands 
out from the crowd.
The 1965 Dodge is so old 
that it has sliders instead of 
Stuck in Park
Abandoned cars linger in a Yale garage


**Abandoned Cars in the Yale Parking Garage**
**Author: Ike Swetlitz**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AUGUST 2014
7
Chevy’s last visible Yale parking permit expired on 
May 28, 2012. Another five vehicles appear simi­
larly abandoned in the garage. Some of the cars I 
found did not have any sort of permit altogether, 
and others had permits that expired years ago. 
Ed Bebyn, Yale’s director of parking and tran­
sit, writes in an email that “essentially, these cars 
are permitted vehicles.” That is to say: Cars that 
are parking in the garage are required to have per­
mits, so if a car is parking in the garage, it must 
have a permit. There are always some abuses, he 
adds, but a new sticker program to be implement­
ed this fall should make the few offenders com­
ply. Karen Peart, a press officer at the Office of 
Public Affairs, explained that only cars in open 
Yale lots are currently required to have stickers; 
Pierson-Sage is not an open lot, but rather a ga­
rage. The new program would extend the sticker 
requirement to Yale’s garages starting on Sept. 2. 
However, she declined a phone interview, so I nev­
er received an answer about what would happen 
to these abandoned cars. If the New York DMV 
can’t even find a record of the ’65 Dodge, I doubt 
Yale can.

In his email, Bebyn said that some of the dust-
covered cars belong to students who buy long-
term parking and just keep the cars in the garage. 
Some cars thus only appear to be abandoned. No 
conspiracy there.

But others have tires that look like they have 
not functioned in years, and their windshields do 
not display valid parking permits. One has to won­
der whether someone is really paying Yale nearly a 
hundred dollars a month to store his or her junk. 
The persistent, suspicious presence of these cards 
indicates they are low on the list of the priorities 
of the parking administration. 

Some people who pass through the garage are 
taking justice into their own hands — more ac­
curately, their own fingers. Some have wiped mes­
sages into the grime covering a few of the cars. 
The front window of a red Metro Geo: “DANG 
WASH ME PLZ.” Someone has drawn a frown, 
nose, and eyebrows on the hood. But nobody has 
taken up the task set forth by the anonymous 
complainant.

When I leave the parking garage with the em­
ployees that cold night in March, I am still search­
ing for a story. But sometimes a garage full of cars 
really is just a garage full of cars. There are no 
secret documents here — except, perhaps, those 
related to the new sticker policy. This story is full 
of actors who go half way: laypeople interested 
enough to demand cleanup but lazy enough only 
to scratch off enough dust to leave their message, 
and a parking office interested enough to promise 
amorphous change but stubborn enough to not 
explain it.

Not all mysterious parking lots will bring 
down the presidency.


**Keep on Trucking**
**Author: Lorraine James**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Jon Roy makes a living from his food truck on Cedar Street
D
uring lunchtime, the stretch of New Haven’s 
Cedar Street between Congress Avenue and 
York Street is filled with the clanking of knives 
and the sizzling of frying fat. Nearly a hundred 
people mill about the two-dozen food carts clus­
tered around the Yale School of Medicine. 
“Where else can you get a full meal for five 
or six dollars?” asks Mary Weng, a student at the 
Yale School of Public Health, as she orders a half-
chicken, half-steak burrito from one of the carts.

Standing in his food truck, Jon’s Lunch, on a 
cold Saturday in March, Jon Roy is working with 
a steady rhythm. Wearing jeans, a black sweater, 
and a Bacardi Limón baseball cap, he serves up 
a “Yagi Soba,” which consists of salad, steak, and 
spaghetti, and a “Stinky Bomb” sandwich with 
gorgonzola, pastrami, onion, and sausage. Roy 
is one of the few truck employees who runs his 
own show, without a boss calling the shots over 
his shoulders. Every weekday, he pulls in at 9:00 
a.m., waiting for the regular medical students, re­
searchers, workers, and administrators who stop 
by between shifts.

When I speak with him in April, he is less than 

--- Page 8 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
8
thrilled that the New England winter has been so 
long this year. He’s tired of this weather, the con­
stant chill. Business is slow when it’s cold outside. 
“There are easier ways of making money,” he says. 
But he has become a familiar face for people who 
form lines at his cart each day.

Customers reach into the till — a simple white 
bucket — to make their own change. “Trusting 
guy, isn’t he?” says an older man with golden glass­
es who stops by for a buffalo chicken wrap.

Roy works alongside trucks serving Chinese, 
Mediterranean, Japanese, Bengali, Indian, Italian, 
Mexican, Korean, Vietnamese, Italian, Ethiopi­
an, and Thai food. But he offers straightforward 
American fare: subs, salads, and wraps. He pre­
pares almost all of the food on site, drawing on 
lessons from childhood summers on an island near 
Maine, where his grandmother and great-aunt — a 
“Julia Child wannabe,” he says — taught him to 
cook. They prepared recipes from cookbooks and 
television cooking shows together.

He ran a food truck with a friend starting 
two decades ago, but when his girlfriend — now 
his wife — got pregnant, he started his own busi­
ness to cover the bills. Getting into the industry 
is not cheap; a used truck can cost around four 
or five thousand dollars, while a new one is usu­
ally around ten thousand. A yearly permit in New 
Haven costs $200.

Now he earns “enough to live comfortably,” he 
says, and he speaks with pride of his 22-year-old 
daughter, who is out of college and working for 
Next Step Energy, a company that designs and in­
stalls renewable energy systems. But when asked 
whether he would want to pass on his business, he 
chuckles: “No. This is my Social Security. I might 
lease it sooner rather than later.”

As we talk, a vendor from a truck on the other 
side of the street comes over to fish some change 
out of Roy’s white bucket, because he’s short a 
few coins.

“You’re a pain in the ass,” Roy says, rolling 
his eyes.

“But I’m a good pain in the ass, right?” replies 
his fellow vendor, grinning. 

“Everybody’s really nice,” Roy assures, after 
the vendor has left. “When I got married, half of 
these vendors were at my wedding.” 

He can never predict whether the business 
day will be good or bad, but the lunchtime crowd 
has sustained him through the years, along with 
the line of trucks on either side of him, making a 
one-man job a more social affair. 

A man in scrubs who is paying for his food 
interrupts our conversation. “This is embarrass­
ing,” the man begins uncomfortably. “But I forgot 
to pay you last time.” For an instant, Roy looks 
taken aback. A second later, he smiles, accepts the 
money for both orders, and tells his regular not to 
worry about it. 

At 2:00 p.m., he begins loading up his materi­
als and cleaning his cart. Then, he hitches it to a 
truck and drives back home.

JON ROY IS ONE OF A FEW FOOD TRUCK EMPLOYEES WHO 
RUNS HIS OWN TRUCK. PHOTO BY HENRY EHRENBERG 


**Put It to the Test**
**Author: Caroline Sydney**
**Page number(s): 9**

9
E
xams were approaching, and Lauren Canalori, 
a literacy coach at Fair Haven School, was ap­
prehensive. In a few weeks, her students would 
be taking a new round of standardized tests, 
the Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortium 
(SBAC). It was April 2014, and the tests would 
measure how well the district’s Common Core 
curriculum, implemented over the past three 
years, was working. Canalori had helped develop 
the curriculum and train teachers to execute it; 
now, her efforts would be put to the test. On the 
untimed examination, students in grades three 
through eight would have to tackle fifteen to sev­
enteen questions, which would take an estimated 
two to four hours. Canalori’s own son would be 
taking the exam as well. 
“He’s a really strong student, he’s a think­
er, and he’s going to struggle on the test,” she 
said, after discussing the sample questions she’d 
seen. Bookshelves surrounded the round table 
at which she sat, in a small chair intended for a 
middle schooler. The brightly lit library was qui­
et after students had left the weekly lunchtime 
tutoring session.  

The Common Core, one of the largest and 
most ambitious education reforms in the history 
of the United States, is an Obama-era project that 
replaces statewide standards in reading and math 
for kindergarten through twelfth grade with na­
tional standards. In 2009, experts across the na­
tion wrote the new guidelines, aiming to reduce 
the dramatic variation in standards from state 
to state. While the federal government does not 
force states to adopt the Common Core, it pro­
vides additional funding for those that do, and for­
ty-three states have decided to make the switch. 
The New Haven test results will be released 
in the next six months, and teachers, parents, and 
students are all unsure of what they will look like. 

In New York State, where Common Core testing 
was implemented in the spring of 2013, the first 
tests were so difficult that they brought many stu­
dents to tears. In some New York schools, as many 
as eighty-five percent of students failed, according 
to The New York Times.  

The standards, which expect first-grade stu­
dents to “identify who is telling the story at vari­
ous points in a text” and fifth-grade students to 
“graph points on the coordinate plane to solve 
real-world and mathematical problems,” are not a 
curriculum in themselves. However, they do pro­
vide a classroom framework for educators. 

In Connecticut, New Haven was one of the 
first districts to embrace the standards. Students 
and teachers have spent the past few years adjust­
ing to a Common Core-aligned curriculum. And 
while educators hope that the city’s head start will 
show in the test results, opinions on the new stan­
dards are mixed.

When Carlos Torre, a member and former 
president of the New Haven Board of Education, 
talks about the Common Core, his voice is calm. 

HANH NGUYEN
snapshot



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
He sounds like a lawyer explain­
ing the facts of a case he knows 
he will win. And he feels that the 
Common Core standards are 
a key step in moving American 
education forward. “It’s the first 
attempt in this country to have 
anything that resembles a na­
tional conversation about what 
our students should be able 
to know, understand, or do,” 
he explained.  

Architects of the Core, along 
with their supporters, think that 
every American child should be 
taught how to think critically 
rather than spend time memo­
rizing formulaic strategies for 
taking standardized tests. That 
means that teachers will have to 
make fundamental changes in 
the way they teach. But they do 
have the new guidelines to point 
them in the right direction. For 
example, reading and writing are 
now supposed to take a more 
central place in every class. 
“When you start to become 
departmentalized in the older 
grades, teachers start to become 
very territorial about what their 
content is and what they do,” 
Canalori said. “[But] the Com­
mon Core says very clearly that 
everyone is a literacy teacher.” 
To make that a reality, she is 
helping her colleagues under­
stand how best to teach differ­
ent kinds of writing across sub­
ject areas. Now, in science class, 
students learn argumentative 
writing based on observations of 
experiments, while social stud­
ies lessons include persuasive 
writing based on data collection.
Under the Core, students 
also need to be able to read and 
analyze a wider variety of liter­
ary genres, and the Fair Haven 
School’s library shelves show it: 
Both nonfiction survival narra­
tives and Sharon Draper young 
adult novels exploring the lives 
of urban teenagers expose stu­
dents to a variety of genres and 
satisfy Common Core require­
ments. In math, Howe said, stu­
dents develop a stronger sense 
of numbers, acquiring a more 
intuitive understanding of how, 
say, place value works. They fo­
cus on fewer concepts, but delve 
more deeply into each one. 
Before the Common Core, 
Canalori says, teachers often 
gave students “formulas” for 
answering different categories 
of questions on state assess­
ments. “We have all these pas­
sive learners now. I think that 
the Common Core is going to 
take that away, because we don’t 
know what the kids are going to 
be asked,” Canalori said. In the 
past, teachers knew what type 
of essay their students would 
be asked to write: Fourth grade 
wrote narrative, fifth expository, 
seventh and eighth persuasive. 
Now, the test is unpredictable. 
Students need to be trained in 
many different kinds of writing, 
because the old formulas will 
not work on test day. 
Canalori knows that that 
these tests are going to be a 
challenge. “The test is really 
hard. I firmly believe that teach­
ers should have high expecta­
tions and that children rise to 
the expectations you set for 
them, and I’ve lived that in my 
career as a teacher. But the test 
is really difficult and I personally 
wonder if it’s developmentally 
appropriate.”
The already-difficult tests, 
she says, are made even tougher 
by the fact that they are taken 
on the computer. When I visited 
her at school, her students were 
busy practicing their computer 
skills, clicking away on desktops 
in the school library, building 
websites based on what they’d 
read about natural disasters. “I 
worry about their personal tech 
skills, but also I worry that we 
are somewhat behind in our 
technology 
infrastructure 
in 
the building and now we’re kind 
of running to play catch up,” 
Canalori said. Some schools sim­
ply have better equipment: Her 
son’s school in the suburbs sup­
plies every student with an iPad, 
integrating technological litera­
cy into everyday activities, but 
in Fair Haven, computers are 
often older models. But that’s 
changing: The school has re­
ceived donated computers, and 
a state grant is helping schools 
across the New Haven district 
buy thousands more, largely in­
tended to help students take 
the tests.
Marlin Coon, a sandy-haired 
student at the K-8 Worthington 
Hooker School in East Rock, 
took the test last spring, at the 
end of his third-grade year. He 
found that it was a little harder 
than tests he had taken previ­
ously, mainly because of the 
technology component. “I didn’t 
know what all the keys were. 
Plus writing is much faster than 
typing,” he said, swinging his 
legs while sitting next to his fa­
ther at a local coffee shop. 
Parent Dave Coon, PTA 
president 
at 
Worthington 
Hooker, voices a different con­
cern. He and his fellow parents 
are worried that excessive test­
ing will negatively impact their 
children’s education by forc­
ing teachers to spend instruc­
tional time coaching students 
for tests. And, at Worthington 
Hooker, where Coon’s two sons 
attend school, testing occupied 
the school’s computers and shut 
down its library for two months. 


Many parents report that 
even homework doesn’t look like 
it used to.Carol Boynton, a sec­
ond-grade teacher at Edgewood 
School, said that many parents, 
unable to understand their chil­
dren’s homework, have asked her 
what’s so terrible about teaching 
math the “normal” way. She rec­
ognizes that these new standards 
cause anxiety for parents. “I see 
a lot of frustrated parents react­
ing,” she said. “And I understand 
that.” She tries to explain that 
“some of this [material] has been 
around forever. It’s not really 
new. It’s just being formatted in 
a new way.” 

Roger Howe, a Yale math 
professor who helped design 
the new standards in math, ex­
plained that the national stan­
dards are just that—standards. 
While the tests are adminis­
tered nationwide, states and 
districts are left to design their 
own curricula. Three and a half years 
ago, the New Haven Unified 
School District replaced the 
previous math curriculum with 
Singapore math, which empha­
sizes independent problem solv­
ing to guide students towards 
discovering concepts and for­
mulas instead of memorizing 
them. And two years ago, they 
introduced the reading curricu­
lum designed in part by Canalo­
ri. In this sense, Common Core 
standards aren’t so new after all, 
and New Haven’s classrooms 
are already moving in the right 
direction. “It’s new for the rest 
of the state, it’s new for most of 
the country…but it isn’t for us,” 
Torre said.
This early adaptation sets 
New Haven apart from other 
states and districts because it 
has given students, and most 
importantly, teachers, time to 
adjust to and understand the 
new methods. Howe believes 
this head start has prepared 
New Haven students “in a pret­
ty significant way,” making the 
difference between a successful 
rollout and a failed one. 

But every teacher, in every 
classroom, in every school, still 
needs to be prepared to meet 
the standards. “The essential 
thing for the Common Core, 
or really any kind of curriculum 
innovation, is that you have to 
make sure teachers are ready to 
do it,” Howe said. “And this is 
what the U.S. education system 
chronically fails to do.” A survey 
conducted by Education Week 
in October 2013 found that 
teachers spent fewer than four 
days in Common Core training 
for both subjects. New Haven is 
hardly an exception and does not 
have many programs in place to 
provide teachers with opportu­
nities for professional develop­
ment and training to teach the 
Common Core.
The most promising pro­
gram available—the Yale-New 
Haven Teachers Institute—is 
facilitated and funded by Yale, 
rather than by the city or the 
state. The seminars, which work 
with teachers to develop inno­
vative curricula that they then 
post online, target Common 
Core strategies, because that’s 
what teachers are most inter­
ested in learning about. But they 
are not certified by any oversee­
ing organization.
Founding 
Director 
of 
the Institute Jim Vivian sees 
teacher support as a weakness 
of the rollout both nationally 
and in New Haven. He knows 
that his workshops only reach 
a handful of teachers, and even 
the lesson plans that they pro­
duce and publish for free on­
line can only provide so much 
support. He worries that not 
enough similar programs exist 
to support teachers through the 
transition process. 

Boynton attended her first 
seminar at YNHTI in 2007. She 
continues to attend the program 
and use the online resources, and 
she encourages her colleagues 
to do the same. “It’s what we 
need as teachers. It’s an experi­
ence that teachers can have that 
will provide them with the tools 
they need to approach the Com­
mon Core,” she explained.
At both Fair Haven and 
Edgewood, students and teach­
ers await results from the pilot 
round of SBAC testing. Scores 
from the pilot will not be used 
to make decisions about individ­
ual students’ placement or per­
formance, but they will provide 
a general indication of how the 
district might perform once the 
final version of the test is admin­
istered next year. 

Boynton feels a little more 
hopeful about the results that 
Edgewood School will receive 
this year. It was one of a few New 
Haven schools that participated 
in an earlier round of SBAC pi­
lot testing in 2013, and her an­
swer suggests that the tests are 
not to be feared. “Because we’ve 
been ahead of it a little bit, we’ve 
done it, we know a lot about 
what has to occur— not every­
thing, but we have some ideas. I 
don’t think the anxiety is as high 
as it is in other places.”
Educators hope the Com­
mon Core standards will better 
serve their students. But, ulti­
mately, many encourage their 
students to look beyond the 
test. “I work at a school where 
the philosophy is that you are 
much more than a test score,” 
Leslie Blatteau, a high school 
history teacher at Metropolitan 
Business Academy, said. “We 
want students to demonstrate 
creativity, innovation, collabora­
tion, problem solving, analysis, 
citizenship—all 
these 
things 
that involve much more than sit­
ting down at a computer.” 



**Troubling Legacies: Anti-Judaism in Antiquity and Its Aftermath**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AUGUST 2014
13
Troubling 
Legacies:
Anti-Judaism 
in Antiquity
and Its 
Aftermath
September 8, 2014 • 11:00 am •  Whitney Humanities Center
Panel 1
erich gruen University of California, Berkeley  •  benjamin isaac Tel Aviv University, Israel 
dale b. martin Yale University  
THE YALE PROGRAM FOR THE STUDY OF ANTISEMITISM
Panel 2 
adele reinhartz University of Ottawa, Canada  •  ruth sheridan United Theological College, Australia 
harold attridge Yale University
Panel 3 
george kohler Bar-Ilan University, Israel  •  anders gerdmar Uppsala University, Sweden 
paul franks Yale University   •  joshua ezra burns Marquette University
Panel 4 
sarah hammerschlag University of Chicago  •  ward blanton University of Kent, UK 
j. kameron carter Duke University  •  ben dunning Fordham University
Co-Sponsored by the Department of Religious Studies, Program in Judaic Studies, 
and Yale Initiative for the Study of Antiquity and the Premodern World.
Made possible by a generous grant from the Goldhirsh-Yellin Foundation 
Followed by a reception.
11:00am Introductions: Maurice Samuels; 
Associate Provost; Hindy Najman
Panel 1: Non-Christian Greek and Roman 
Anti-Judaism?  
11:15am Erich Gruen, “Was there 
Judeophobia in Classical Antiquity?” 
11:40am Benjamin Isaac, “Greek and 
Roman Hostility:  Cultural
Incompatibility”
12:05pm Dale B. Martin (moderated 
session)    
55 minute lunch break: 12:35–1:30pm


Panel 2: John’s “Jews” and their Effective 
Force in Reception History 
1:30pm Adele Reinhartz, “The Devil 
Incarnate: John’s anti-Jewish
legacy”
1:55pm Ruth Sheridan, “Reproducing 
Johannine Anti-Judaism: The
Case of Commentary on John 8:32”
 2:20pm Harold Attridge (moderated 
15 minute coffee break: 2:50–3:05pm  


Panel 3: Nineteenth Century Philosophy 
and Theology
3:05pm George Kohler, “Supersessionism 
in Jewish-Christian Debates
in Germany between 1830-1870”
3:30pm Anders Gerdmar, “The 
Construction of the Jews in 19th Century 
German Protestantism: the Case of 
Tübingen
professors Beck and Baur.”
 3:55pm Paul Franks (moderated session) 
Joshua Ezra Burns (respondent)  
15 minute coffee break: 4:25–4:40  


Panel 4: Contemporary Legacies
4:40pm Sarah Hammerschlag, “The figure 
of the Jew and the New
Universalism”
5:05pm Ward Blanton, “What is an 
Apparatus?”  Machineries of Paulinism 
and the Force of the Name ‘Jew’” 5:30pm 
J. Kameron Carter, “(In-)Sovereignty in 
Palestine: Négritude     
and the Reproductions of Colonialism.”
5:55 pm Ben Dunning (moderated 
6:25pm Concluding remarks: Maurice 
Samuels
6:30pm  Reception



**Cops on the Block**
**Author: Michelle Hackman / graphics by Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 14**

THE NEW JOURNAL
14
Cops on 
the Block
New


**Untitled**
**Author: Michelle Hackman**
**Page number(s): 15**

15
O
fficer Mike Pepe is cruising around the 
Dwight-Kensington neighborhood when he 
gets the call. Two women, the dispatcher tells him, 
are sitting on a park bench at a nearby elemen­
tary school playground. They’re staring into space 
while a toddler lies screaming on the ground. 
Pepe, a four-year veteran of the New Haven 
Police Department, quickly heads to the scene. 
He finds the two women, perhaps in their thirties, 
their eyes bloodshot, ignoring the baby girl sob­
bing desperately before them.
Pepe climbs out of his cruiser. I follow about 
ten feet behind, wrapping myself tightly in a thick 
knit sweater. It is an unusually frigid afternoon for 
late April, too cold, I think, for a mother to bring 
her child to the park. The baby’s coat looks thin 
and shabby, not thick enough to shield her from 
the wind.
Another officer, Sgt. Mario Francia, arrives on 
the scene. As he and Officer Pepe approach, one 
of the women spots him and finally acknowledges 
the baby. “What happened, mama?” she slurs, not 
moving to scoop the child off the ground. Her 
companion remains too catatonic to react.
Pepe approaches the women, a kind look of 
concern on his face. It is immediately clear to 
him that both are high on something, perhaps 
PCP. “Hey, how are you doin’?” Pepe calls out, 
cautiously approaching the two women. “What’s 
your name?”
Again, neither woman responds. After a long 
pause, the one who had cooed at the baby a mo­
ment earlier utters, “Katina.” The second woman 
still does not speak; she cannot speak.
“What happened to her?” Pepe asks casually, 
gesturing at the child on the ground. “Did she fall 
or somethin’, guys?” 
“She aright,” Katina responds in a daze, the 
baby’s sobs growing louder.
Pepe picks up the baby and starts bounc­
ing her. The baby’s diaper, he later tells me, feels 
as though it is reaching the point of explosion. 
“That’s my baby!” Katina raises her voice. “Why 
you actin’ like this? I’m just chillin’.”
“You seem, uh, very out of it,” he explains 
calmly, asking her to remain seated. “What’d you 
do today?” No response. “You do drugs? You drink? 
Any alcohol or somethin’?”
Pepe is calm and nonjudgmental. He contin­
ues for several more minutes, cajoling and sooth­
ing the women to the best of his ability, until an 
ambulance and a police cruiser arrive to take the 
two women away. Katina does not want to go, yell­
ing that she has done nothing worthy of arrest. 
But she succumbs to her handcuffs and her com­
panion, still impassive, is loaded onto a stretcher 
to be taken to the emergency room. The baby’s 
godmother, who lives nearby, takes the child home. 
“I think we handled that situation the best 
we could,” Pepe tells me back in the cruiser. But, 
several years ago, Pepe adds, he might have ap­
proached the scene differently. He might have ex­
pressed his frustration at the two women; after all, 
they had both willingly taken drugs, endangering 
the baby. Had he acted on these emotions, Pepe 
might have yelled at the women out of frustration, 
perhaps handcuffing Katina more aggressively. He 
could have decided to arrest both women, rather 
than sending one to the hospital. But Pepe now 
understands that when an officer rough-handles 
someone with mental illness, his actions can exac­
erbate the situation.
These days, Pepe responds differently to calls 
like these, thanks to a program in Connecticut 
designed to teach police officers how to recog­
nize and work with individuals who are mentally 
ill. The program, run by a nonprofit organization 
called the Connecticut Alliance to Benefit Law 
Enforcement, or CABLE, has employed the Crisis 
Intervention Team (CIT) model since 2003. The 
core purpose of CIT is to intertwine the realms 
of law enforcement and mental healthcare—
two fields that, until recently, have remained 
resolutely separate. 
Decades ago, such a division made sense: A 
vast majority of Americans with a diagnosable 
mental illness lived out their lives confined inside 
state hospitals or other institutions. In 1955, at 
the peak of “institutionalization,” as the practice 
is now known, these facilities contained 339 beds 
per every 100,000 Americans. But from the late 
fifties through the early eighties, patients were 
discharged from hospitals and returned to their 
communities. The shift was partially intentional: 
Advocates of the plan believed that these individ­
uals would live more fulfilling lives integrated into 
normal society. New psychiatric drugs, which were 
PHOTO BY JENNIFER LU



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
emerging on the market at the same time, were 
thought effective enough to quiet anxiety, depres­
sion, bipolar disorder, and psychosis—many of the 
most severe syndromes that had originally forced 
states to institutionalize individuals. Civil com­
mitment laws around the nation were reformed 
so that only the most severely mentally ill—those 
who posed an immediate threat to themselves or 
to others—could be hospitalized against their will. 


At the same time, state budgets were shrink­
ing, and state hospitals were a prime target for 
cuts. By the turn of the century, the number of 
beds per 100,000 people had fallen to twenty. 
Dwindling funds, moreover, meant that states 
were not financially equipped to build the com­
prehensive, community-based mental healthcare 
systems necessary to care for people who had been 
discharged from hospitals.

Connecticut has one of the nation’s most 
well-funded and well-managed mental healthcare 
systems. Even so, says Madelon Baranoski, an as­
sociate professor of Law and Psychiatry at Yale’s 
School of Medicine who teaches a module of CA­
BLE’s CIT training course, not enough services 
have sprung up to provide the care once offered 
in hospitals. Consequently, many people with se­
vere mental illness are left to their own devices, 
encountering mental health professionals only in 
times of crisis. Public health officials liken this ne­
glect to only treating a patient with heart disease 
once he has suffered a heart attack—ignoring a se­
rious problem until it becomes a crisis.

Nearly every day, police departments across 
Connecticut receive phone calls from families 
where one member with mental illness is in crisis; 
the callers fear either for the ill family member’s 
safety or for their own. In addition, in the state’s 
urban centers—cities like Hartford, Bridgeport, 
and New Haven—many homeless residents suf­
fer from mental illness, wandering the city streets 
talking to themselves, disconnected from any 
available mental health resources. New Haven, 
in particular, has an especially large population 
of people with mental illness, largely because of 
its Yale-affiliated hospitals and its abundance of 
group-living homes.

Sgt. Chris McKee, an officer with the Windsor 
Police Department who has taught CIT courses 
for four years, says that, in general, police are not 
adequately taught to recognize signs of mental ill­
ness. “It’s our job to get a scene safe,” he says. “But 
we can’t run into a house with a bipolar person 
and put our hands on their shoulders and force 
them to sit down. They are going to pace. They 
are going to get up and fidget and feel anxious. 
When the police tell them to do something, they 
don’t always listen.” In cases like these, McKee 
says, officers may arrest—or even shoot—the in­
dividual because they do not recognize his or 
her uncooperative behavior as a manifestation of 
mental illness.

CIT training attempts to prevent these situ­
ations by teaching police officers to recognize 
symptoms of mental illness and to use techniques 
that will calm people in crisis. What you need, 
Pepe says, is sensitivity: sensitivity in what tone 
you take, sensitivity in which words you choose, 
sensitivity in your physical interactions. Such an 
approach, proponents of CIT hope, reduces the 
risk of injury to both police officers and individu­
als with mental illness, diverting those individuals 
to mental health treatment instead of jail.

“Police have learned that the command pres­
ence that they use—usually with the bad guy or 
the robber—that command presence, yelling, be­
ing really forceful, doesn’t work with people with 
mental illness,” says Louise Pyers, the founder and 
executive director of CABLE. “It makes it worse. 
So if they can identify, ‘Here is someone who 
clearly has a mental illness,’ they can come in a lot 
slower, be a lot less threatening, speak softly, ask 
questions in a non-threatening way.”

Pepe, a burly, dark-haired teddy bear of a man, 
is the perfect guy for the job. He can be gruff 
when a situation warrants it, but, for the most 
part, he is soft-spoken and jovial. As we drive in 
his cruiser, he listens to pop music and chats about 
his two kids. His speech, tinged with a mild Bos­
ton accent, is frequently punctuated with short, 
loud belly laughs. When we pass by other offi­
cers, he rolls down his window and shouts their 
nicknames. Though he wears a gun on his hip, 
and he has warned me that violence could come 
around any corner, I feel strangely safe sitting by 
his side. Perhaps it’s the unending banter. “I like 
talking to people,” he tells me over the whirs and 
beeps from the cruiser’s radio. “I have no problem 
talking to pretty much anyone.” (That’s good, be­
cause I’ve been in his passenger seat for close to 
seven hours.)

Pepe tells me that his CIT training, which he 
completed two years ago, has primarily taught 
him to slow down and use conversation as a way of 
making others feel comfortable. “You get sent to 
a call like, ‘guy standing in the middle of the street 
yellin’ and screamin’,’ you have no idea—you don’t 
want to put yourself in a situation to have that 
yelling and screaming become a fight between you 
and him.”

“That’s where I think some of the CIT stuff 
comes out,” he continues. “‘What’s going on, 
how are ya’, what’s your name, where do you live?’ 
You’re not gonna yell and scream at him, ‘Get out 
of the road! I’m gonna lock ya up!’” The latter kind 
of interaction, he says, can even act as a trigger for 
mental health crises. 

Once Pepe has won someone over, it’s easier to 
convince him or her to go to the hospital without 
putting up a fight. After talking for long enough, 
some people even choose to go voluntarily. In cas­
es where Pepe has been called to mediate, but de­
cides that hospitalization is not necessary, he can 
pass the individual’s name along to New Haven’s 
CIT clinician, based at the Connecticut Mental 
Health Center. She can then follow up to connect 
the individual with mental health services.

Proponents of the CIT model emphasize that 
it expands a police officer’s range of options. Pepe 
says that, in some situations, he doesn’t have much 
choice. When he is called to a situation involving 
domestic violence, for example, Connecticut law 
requires him to make an arrest. But CIT teaches 
officers, in the words of Amy Watson, an associ­
ate professor at the University of Illinois at Chi­
cago’s Jane Addams College of Social Work, “not 
to arrest for stupid stuff”—charges like “disor­
derly conduct,” when a person’s symptoms cause 
them to behave in disruptive, but not necessarily 
criminal, ways.

That doesn’t let people with mental illness 
off the hook for all crimes. “Certainly,” Watson 
tells me, “if you have a mental illness, it doesn’t 
mean that you shouldn’t be arrested if you steal 
something. But if your voices are telling you 
to steal something, maybe arrest isn’t the most 
productive avenue.”

In 1988, police in Memphis, Tennessee shot a 
27-year-old man named Joseph Dewayne Robin­
son. Robinson was in the midst of a mental health 
crisis at the time, cutting himself with a knife 
and threatening suicide. The officers repeatedly 
ordered him to drop the knife, but he only grew 
more agitated, moving toward the officers. They 
shot him eight times.

A public outcry surrounding Robinson’s death 
led the Memphis Police Department and research­
ers at the University of Memphis to collaborate on 
a program that would teach officers how to inter­
act more humanely with the mentally ill. Before 
CIT, patrol officers used to ask separate mental 
health experts to join them on calls requiring psy­
chiatric training. But each police department’s 
fleet of mental health professionals was small—if 
they could afford one at all.

CIT helps rank-and-file members to add these 
skills to their repertoire. (At least 2,600 local de­
partments currently have CIT-trained officers on 
the ground, according to the University of Mem­
phis’s estimate.) In New Haven, elements of the 
CIT model have been incorporated into the initial 
training that all patrol officers receive, and the de­
partment is attempting to send as many officers as 
it can afford to CABLE’s training courses. “I think 
it’s just an extra tool you use when you’re on the 
street,” Pepe says. “I think it’s for everyone.”

The numbers prove that Pepe’s success in 
the scene I witnessed wasn’t just an anomaly. In 
2002, Dr. Randy Dupont, a professor of crimi­
nology and criminal justice at the University of 
Memphis, oversaw a project that tracked 1,200 
individuals with serious mental illnesses who en­
gaged with law enforcement officials during that 
year, to gauge CIT’s effectiveness in Memphis. 
Six hundred had interacted with CIT-trained of­
ficers, while another six hundred had encountered 
untrained officers. Dupont and his colleagues only 
tracked individuals who were directly connected 
to community services and individuals who were 
sent to jail but soon diverted back into community 
services, so as Dupont puts it, “their paths con­
verged very quickly.” Not only did the research­
ers find that CIT-trained officers were much less 
likely to send mentally ill individuals to jail than 
their untrained counterparts, they also found that 
mentally ill individuals who had briefly been ex­
posed to the jail environment were less likely to 
see an improvement in their psychiatric symp­
toms three months later, less likely to remain in 
treatment, and more likely to be rearrested. Du­
pont’s research, along with scores of other studies 
coming out of Memphis, encouraged other cities 
and states to consider the CIT model.

Just as the death of Joseph Dewayne Robinson 
spurred unprecedented collaboration between the 
police department and the mental health system 
in Memphis, an unexpected run-in with law en­
forcement was the catalyst that led Pyers to bring 
the Memphis model to Connecticut. In 1997, her 
son Seth, whose name has been changed in this 
story, was a 19-year-old engineering student at a 
university in New Jersey. Soon after entering col­
lege, Seth was diagnosed with Major Depressive 
Disorder and prescribed anti-depressants. Ev­
ery month, he would drive up to his hometown 
in central Connecticut for a routine visit with his 
psychiatrist. One morning that spring, Pyers was 
awoken early by a phone call. An officer from the 
local police department informed her that Seth 
had been shot in the stomach by an officer in the 
middle of the night.

Pyers was confused: Her son had come home 
for a doctor’s appointment just several weeks 
prior, and he was not due back home for several 
more. Seth was no longer a minor, so his psychia­
trist could not have informed Pyers that her son 
had recently taken an emotional nosedive. Seth 
had attempted to take his own life by swallow­
ing an entire bottle of over-the-counter painkill­
ers. When that effort failed—“All it did was make 
him sick,” Pyers recalls—he began thinking about 
other, more fail-proof methods. 

The evening before Pyers received the phone 
call, Seth had decided his surest option would be 
to use a gun. But he did not own one, and neither, 
he knew, did his parents. Then it occurred to him: 
Police carry guns. 

So that night, he clambered into his car, sped 
to Connecticut, and led several police officers on a 
car chase. In an effort to end the encounter quick­
ly, he rear-ended one of the cop cars. The officer 
Seth had rammed got out of his car, and Seth ran 
toward him shouting, “You better shoot me, or I’ll 


**Title:  AUGUST 2014**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AUGUST 2014
19
kill you!”
Pyers still remembers her son’s remorse upon 
waking from emergency surgery hours later. “He 
remembered looking into the officer’s face and 
said, ‘I brought this man into my nightmare, and I 
shouldn’t have done that.’”
Pyers, who had already been working in the 
mental health field, soon realized that her son re­
quired a case manager to oversee his treatment, so 
she quit her job to take care of him full-time. She 
could not help but wonder: How many others had 
come before her son, using police officers as the 
instrument in their own suicides? 


She began researching the issue, and in Au­
gust of 2001, she published her findings in the FBI 
National Academy magazine. One in four officer 
shootings, she concluded, are purposefully pro­
voked by the victim—a phenomenon known as 
“suicide by cop.”
Pyers initially founded CABLE as a research 
and education non-profit to support further study 
on suicide by cop. But soon after she published 
her initial findings, she got a call from Captain 
Ken Edwards of the New London Police Depart­
ment. “I saw your information on suicide by cop,” 
she recalls him saying. “He said, ‘We’re doing a 
program here called crisis intervention training. 
Do you want to see it in action?’” Pyers had heard 
about the CIT program in Memphis, and Edwards 
told her that his department had gone to Tennes­
see to learn how the program worked. 


When she went to New London to attend 
a CIT training session, she realized for the first 
time that the scope of perilous interactions be­
tween law enforcement and people with mental 
illness extended far beyond suicide by cop. But 
she also remembers feeling surprised by the pas­
sion of the officers at the training, all of whom had 
volunteered to learn more about mental illness. 
It was the conversations with these officers, she 
says, that helped her understand the full scope of 
the problem.
After the training, she approached Edwards 
and asked him if he would help her implement 
the program statewide. In 2004, CABLE, with 
Edwards’ help, won a grant from the Connecti­

In one study, 28% 
of people with 
serious mental 
illness were 
arrested in a 10-
year period. The 
majority of these 
arrests were 
for non-violent 
charges like 
crimes against the 
public order or 
property offenses. 
Many experienced 
repeat arrests. 
(National Institute 
of Mental Illness)
28%


--- Page 20 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
20
cut Department of Mental Health and Addiction 
Services (DMHAS) that would enable Pyers to 
do just that. Now, the state pays CABLE about 
$65,000 per year to run five weeklong CIT train­
ings. It also offers each police department a $1,500 
stipend per officer it sends to be trained. DMHAS 
issues about $20,000 in training stipends per year, 
according to Loel Meckel, the assistant director of 
DMHAS’s Division of Forensic Services.
The training, which spans five eight-hour days, 
includes educational lectures on different types of 
mental illness, role-plays to practice de-escalation 
skills, and a simulation of what it might feel like 
to hallucinate. For a more personal perspective, 
Pyers also invites the officer involved in her son’s 
incident to speak to the training attendees; he 
tells his story, and her son tells his own in a pre-
recorded video. 


Baranoski, the Yale professor of psychiatry, 
teaches what she calls “Mental Health 101” on the 
first day of each training. She opens the module 
with basic science: She introduces officers to sev­
eral broad classes of mental illness and their asso­
ciated symptoms. She explains how brain chemis­
try causes disturbances in thought. But, she always 
tells the officers, it is much more important for 
them to understand how to handle an individual in 
crisis than to recognize the specific illness plagu­
ing him or her. 


“The diagnosis doesn’t matter,” she explains. 
“What matters is the state that the person is in 
when the police gets involved. They’re over­
whelmed. Their usual behavior and their usual 
coping methods are not working. So how do you 
manage that? How do you get people to the right 
level of treatment?”
During the eight-hour evening shift on which 
I accompany Pepe, he receives no “Signal 90” 
calls—NHPD code for a situation involving a psy­
chiatric crisis. (The call involving the two women 
is technically classified as a “Signal 98,” a drug-
related situation.) But Pepe tells me that this is 
rare. It is not uncommon for an officer to take one 
or two Signal 90’s per shift. And even situations 
that are not technically psychiatric crises—drug-
related crises, for example—allow him to use some 

$10,000
$22,600
One year of 
incarceration for a 
prisoner (in both 
federal and state 
prisons) 
is $22,600
Assertive com­
munity treatment, 
which provides 
comprehensive 
services to people 
with serious 
mental illnesses, 
costs around 
$10,000 per 
person, per year. 


--- Page 21 ---

21
of the skills that he learned in CIT training. 


Each situation requires its own set of strate­
gies, he says, but at the core of his approach is an 
attempt to understand what sort of help the men­
tally ill person actually needs.
“They might not know what’s goin’ on. So you 
have to slowly try to reel them in, to get them 
whatever help they need,” Pepe says. “Maybe they 
want medication. Maybe, at the end of the day, 
maybe the only reason they called you is because 
they’re just unsatisfied with where they live. They 
wanna go somewhere else, but they don’t know 
what to do.”
Pepe drives me past the Park Street Inn, one of 
the group-living homes he is sometimes called to. 
A converted brownstone walk-up that dates back 
to the early 1900s, the three-story home currently 
houses 15 residents with a range of mental health 
conditions and substance abuse issues. Most often 
when Pepe comes here, he has been summoned 
by one of the residents. Their complaints, he ex­
plains, are often things like “This person is talk­
ing to me mean” or “This person put his hands on 
me.” Though two on-duty staff members manage 
the home at all times, the residents are granted a 
large measure of independence, and often they are 
the ones making the 911 calls. Still, Pepe says, he is 
not sure why they turn to the police.


“Maybe we’re just a different avenue,” he spec­
ulates. “They know, maybe we’ll just get them to 
the hospital a little quicker. I don’t know what 
they know. I think they just know 911.”
A few days after accompanying Pepe on his 
shift, I go back to visit the Park Street Inn. The 
house is managed by a team of social workers, 
but they work mainly in offices at the front of the 
home, on the first floor. Residents mill about the 
rest of the cramped space, wandering down to 
the kitchen, or gathering to watch television on a 
large flat-screen in the home’s cozy dining room. 
Though the residents appear amicable when I vis­
it, Dan Collins, one of the Park Street Inn’s pro­
gram directors, tells me they occasionally clash or 
make “very poor decisions.” When one resident 
threatens the safety or well-being of another resi­
dent or staff member, he says, “Yeah, they’ll see an 
officer in blue.” 


But in the thirty or so years he has worked in 
such environments, Collins says, he has never seen 
officers interact with people who have emotional 
difficulties as well as Pepe and his colleagues do.
“Law enforcement’s understanding and skills 
at engaging our program members has just been 
getting better with each passing year,” he says. 
He rattles off the names of several officers, Mike 
Pepe’s among them, who have been particularly 
effective. “They are more at ease. And they’re 
more comfortable and skilled at making a connec­
tion with the person.”
For example, he says, an officer might try to 
move a conversation into a more comfortable 
space. We are standing in the foyer of the home, 
a tiny round room with doors and hallways shoot­
ing off in every direction and a large fish tank at 
its center. He gestures around us. “You don’t want 
an explosive situation happening in this confined 
area,” he tells me. We walk down one of the hall­
ways to the dining room, which has two red high-
backed wing chairs in one corner. “So the officer 
might say, ‘Hey, would you be comfortable going to 
sit in the dining room?’” With that simple change, 
a CIT officer could solve a problem another of­
ficer might not even have noticed. 


“‘You smell like shit.’ ‘You stepped in dog shit.’ 
‘You smell like poop.’ ‘You stepped in poop.’”
Pepe remembers the relentless voices well. He 
was trying to make a purchase and count out exact 
change. But his headset was playing a looping re­
cording of three or four voices, speaking at differ­
ent volumes, sometimes overlapping one another. 
It was, he said, the part of his CIT training 
that most affected him. The exercise gives officers 
a sense of what someone on the street might be 
experiencing when they say, “The voices told me 
to do this.” Each officer heard a different set of 
voices, echoing a different set of insults. By the 
end of the exercise, none of them held the correct 
amount of money. “You are literally like looking 
at your shoe, like, ‘What, are you serious?’” he re­
calls. “You literally just got so confused with all 
the different things that were goin’ on.”
The experience “doesn’t make a social worker 
out of them by any means,” Pyers says. “But it 
really gives them insight. We teach them to rec­
ognize symptoms and say, ‘Oh, okay, this person 
is obviously hearing things that I’m not hearing 



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
right now, and that’s why they’re not responding.’”
CIT training has taught Pepe to be on the 
lookout for these symptoms in people on the 
street—not just in the people he encounters dur­
ing calls. He says that as he drives, his head is al­
ways “on a swivel.” Many symptoms, he adds, are 
very easy to pick up. Patterns emerge: If someone 
is about to do something violent, he or she will of­
ten grind his or her teeth or tense his or her hands 
into fists. If someone is about to take off running, 
he or she will often first pull his or her pants higher 
on the waist. If someone is using drugs, he or she 
might be yelling in the street or sitting on a curb 
looking dazed.

But, Pepe emphasizes, he can quickly gain 
a much better understanding of what exactly is 
troubling someone just by chatting with them. “A 
majority of people are willing to talk. You just have 
to find that area that lets them open up.”

The research conducted on CIT training so far 
has proven promising but inconclusive. The 2002 
Memphis study results were an early indication of 
the program’s potential, and the most recent stud­
ies suggest that CIT-trained officers arrest fewer 
people with mental illness and connect more with 
the mental health services they need. But existing 
data have not necessarily borne out the claim that 
CIT-trained officers use less force than their non-
trained counterparts. Researchers have also not 
been able to determine whether a change in of­
ficers’ attitudes about mental illness significantly 
impacts their choices on the job. 

“We have a reasonable level of confidence that 
[CIT training] can improve safety in encounters 
and probably increase the number of people that 
officers connect to services,” Watson, the Univer­
sity of Illinois professor, tells me. But, she cau­
tions that these effects are only moderate. “A lot 
of officers who aren’t CIT-trained [already] do a 
fairly decent job—they learn what works.”

Pyers says that these findings mirror what she 
has observed in Connecticut so far. Officers are 
often required to arrest individuals with mental 
illness, especially if their crimes do not result di­
rectly from their symptoms. But, in the past de­
cade, many others have been transported to the 
hospital for evaluations or connected to existing 
services instead of being charged for a crime their 
illness led them to commit. And, whereas officers 
may have arrested a person with mental illness on 
a petty crime like breach of peace before the CIT 
model was implemented, they are now more likely 
to understand that such an individual would be 
better off in treatment than in jail. 

Meckel, the state official who oversees the 
DMHAS grants that fund CABLE’s CIT training 
courses, says that the state cannot truly measure 
the CIT model’s success because it lacks sufficient 
data to do so. “The police are not in the busi­
ness of doing these cost-benefit analyses,” Meckel 
tells me. “We can think of a lot of numbers that 
would be useful to have, but it’s not what the po­
lice usually collect.” It might be helpful to know, 
for example, the number of people diverted from 
the criminal justice system and instead connected 
with mental health services. But even if the police 
were able to track the number of people diverted 
into public programs, they would not be able to 
track those who have private insurance and seek 
help through their own providers.

“The difficulty of all of this work is that you 
can’t say you prevented something,” Baranos­
ki says. “You can collect data over time and say, 
‘O.K., maybe we’ve made fewer arrests.’” But a lot 
of factors can influence that statistic.

Still, by Meckel’s estimation, funding CA­
BLE’s CIT training program turns out to be cost-
effective for the state. Assuming that CIT-trained 
officers prevent even a handful of individuals with 
mental illness from entering the criminal justice 
system, he says, the state is likely to save money. 
Even when the state pays for community-based 
services including psychiatrists, psychologists, 
case managers, rental subsidies, and hospitaliza­
tions, these costs add up to a fraction of the yearly 
“IT’S A SAD COMMENTARY 
ON THE STATE OF MENTAL 
HEALTH SERVICES. THE POLICE 
ARE STEPPING UP TO DO IT, 
BECAUSE NO ONE ELSE WILL.”


Watson takes a much more pessimistic view. 
No one, she says, says it’s a terrible idea to train 
officers in the principles of CIT. But, she adds, 
the fact that police must take on such a burden 
speaks to just how inadequate the American men­
tal healthcare system has become.
 “It’s a sad commentary on the state of mental 
health services. The police are stepping up to do 
it, because no one else will.”

Near the end of my ride with Officer Pepe, I 
ask him if he thinks CIT is effective. He remains 
silent for an uncharacteristically long time, con­
templating his answer. Finally, he responds, “You 
know, I think about it all the time. I sent this guy 
to the hospital two weeks ago. Did it help? What’d 
it do? We don’t really know those things, you 
know? I mean, we kind of are just the first step.”

cost of sending a person with severe mental ill­
ness to prison. For example, according to a 2008 
study conducted by the Connecticut Office of 
Legislative Research, the cost per individual at the 
Garner Correctional Institution, a state prison in 
Newtown that housed mainly inmates with men­
tal illness at the time of the study, was $85,000 per 
year. By contrast, the average cost of incarceration 
across the state stood at $40,000. And when an 
individual successfully reintegrates into his or her 
community, it also becomes more possible for that 
individual to find work, require less financial sup­
port, and contribute to the economy.

Cost effectiveness aside, Meckel believes the 
CIT model offers Connecticut other, intangible 
benefits. It has, in his judgment, helped people 
with mental illness come to trust the police. “We 
want people with serious mental illnesses—who 
are much more likely to be the victim than the 
perpetrator of a crime—we want them to feel 
comfortable going to the police,” Meckel says. 
“The more positive interactions they have with 
police officers, the more likely that is to happen.” 
Michelle Hackman is a senior 
in Berkeley College.
PHOTO BY JENNIFER LU


**Title: Playing the Cards Right**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 24**

Can an ID card help 
members of a vulnerable 
population feel at home 
in the Elm City?
Playing the 
Cards Right
by Maya Averbuch  
photos by Jennifer Lu



**Title: The Elm City Resident Card: A Municipal ID's Impact**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the early morning of June 6, 2007, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials swooped into New Haven, handcuffs at the ready, searching the city for undocumented residents. By the end of the raid, they had taken thirty-two people off the streets of Fair Haven or from inside their own homes. Families gathered in a local church to record the names of the missing.


The arrests shook the community and even prompted a response from the mayor at the time. “Children have been traumatized; civil rights have been trampled; U.S. citizens and legal residents have been stopped and questioned without cause; and families have been ripped apart. America is better than this,” Mayor John DeStefano wrote in a letter on June 11, 2007, to Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff. 

The appearance of dark-jacketed ICE agents was a startling setback for grassroots groups, whose advocacy on behalf of the city’s 10,000 to 15,000 residents without valid U.S. documents had been gaining momentum after years of work. 

The arrests came just two days after New Haven’s Board of Alders voted to create the nation’s first municipal ID card. The Elm City Resident Card, as it was called, serves as photo identification for residents regardless of their immigration status. 

The card was created with a few specific goals in mind. Undocumented immigrants, unable to open bank accounts, often carried or stashed large amounts of cash, making them prime targets for robberies. The card would allow them to present identification at banks, open accounts, and store their funds safely. They would also be able to check out books from the city’s public libraries and enter public parks and beaches. And, since the government itself would issue the card, officials hoped that cardholders would feel comfortable approaching local police to report crimes. 

“The Elm City card was a shot heard around the country for many of us trying to resolve these problems for low-income and immigrant groups,” says Dr. Paule Cruz Takash, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles. New Haven, with a current population of about 130,000, was the first major city to offer a municipal ID card, and several other cities have since followed in its footsteps. San Francisco started its own program in 2009, and, as of July of this year, more than 21,000 people had obtained cards. With Takash’s help, Oakland, California, developed an ID that doubles as a debit card. Nearly 5,000 people have received the cards since February 2013. Los Angeles and New York City are also in the process of preparing their own versions of the project, and New York Mayor Bill de Blasio signed legislation for IDs this summer, with plans for the city to roll out the card by January 2015.


The idea for a municipal ID wasn’t exactly born in New Haven. Years before the Elm City ID’s arrival, similar identification systems already existed in other parts of the country, according to “A City to Model,” a 2005 proposal crafted by the community groups JUNTA for Progressive Action and Unidad Latina en Acción, with the help of Yale Law School students. Florissant, Missouri, a town of about 52,000 people, offered a resident card to anyone who could provide photo ID and a utility bill. The card provided access to community centers and local recreation facilities. Aventura, Florida, a town of about 37,000 people, issued cards for access to parks and city-sponsored programs to anyone who could provide proof of residence.


The Elm City Resident Card did not have revolutionary ambitions, according to Michael Wishnie, who runs the Workers and Immigrants Advocacy Clinic (WIRAC) at the Yale Law School. But the New Haven proposal went beyond recreation. It asked local police and businesses to accept the card as a form of identification. And it had another important goal: It would allow people to open bank accounts. This innovation made it the first municipal ID in the country with implications for residents’ economic livelihoods and legal concerns. Suddenly, New Haven was making the national news.


While New Haven still receives credit for being the city that led the way in the ID debate, its program is getting less attention these days, and the number of sign-ups has dwindled. To date, over 12,300 people have signed up for the card, but nearly half did so in its first year. Decreased press coverage and the disappearance of mobile sign-up units may have contributed to the slump in numbers. In 2013, there were only 1,234 cards issued. About 550 Yale students signed up as part of a “New Haven Solidarity Week” in the fall of 2007, demonstrating that the card was meant for all residents, not just undocumented individuals. But many current students have never heard of the card. With limited use across the city, there is a renewed concern that the card will become a sort of scarlet letter for the undocumented.


It also turns out that some just won’t buy into the city’s dream. Major banks do not accept the card, so the problem of “unbanked” residents remains unsolved. When customers try to pay for purchases with a check or credit card, businesses sometimes refuse to accept the card as a valid form of identification. The ID was never reformatted to work with the city’s current electronic parking meters, and the original proposal to make it a low-value debit card never took off.


Yet, as far as former Mayor John DeStefano is concerned, the federal government is the one making the mistakes. When I met him for coffee on an April morning, he calls its immigration policy “fundamentally broken and incoherent.” Dressed in a white shirt and a grey suit appropriate for his job as Executive Vice President of Start Community Bank—one of the few that fully accepts the Elm City Resident Card—DeStefano tells me that his aim was always to create “an open and welcoming community.” His smiling face appeared on the first sample ID, dated May 7, 2007, below the banner: “New Haven: It All Happens Here.” In his view, New Haven took a bold stand against the federal giant. Complicating the matter, the government did not act with a single voice; even when the Attorney General and other federal agencies approved plans for the card, the Department of Homeland Security remained wary. Chertoff, the Secretary of Homeland Security, told the Yale Daily News in April 2008, a year after the card’s aldermanic approval: “I don’t think that having identifications to enable people to live illegally is a good thing…It’s inconsistent with the law as we have it.” 


When I contacted DHS to ask about the current policy toward municipal IDs, the e-mailed answer dodges the question. “Secure driver’s licenses and identification documents are a vital component of our national security framework,” reads the brief I received on the REAL ID Act, which Congress passed in 2005 in response to the 9/11 Commission to set standards for state identifications. However, the Elm City Resident Card was never meant to address the act’s goals: to regulate access to federal facilities, nuclear power plants, and commercial aircrafts. The response suggests that DHS disapproves of the numerous rogue states—not including Connecticut—that fail to follow these national standards, but the department may have bigger problems than one small city’s outdated project. 


The Office of Vital Statistics, where the municipal ID cards are issued, is on the ground floor of City Hall. A plain sign above the door matches the bland interior, spruced up with a couple stock photographs of New Haven. People line up, waiting for help from clerks. Blue signs located above the counters dictate general rules—“Expired Licenses & IDs NOT Accepted.”—in large white letters. 

Applications for birth certificates, marriage licenses, and death certificates are available at the center of the room, as though one can sort through all of life’s milestones with a series of forms. For those interested in an Elm City card, a yellow paper to the left states that a card can be obtained with a valid photo ID and two pieces of mail. A tripod points outward, ready to take quick snaps of applicants. The cards, which are valid for three years, can be issued on the spot, Monday through Friday, 9:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Passports, birth certificates, drivers’ licenses, national identification cards, consular IDs, voter registration cards, and visas can be presented as proof of identity. Applicants must also provide proof of residence: insurance and utility bills, bank statements, employment pay stubs, property tax statements, school enrollment forms, voter registration cards, or forms from a New Haven health or social services organization will work. 

The office is quieter than it was in July 2007, when people lined up out the door to get the first Elm City Resident Cards; now, a few people wander in ahead of me to the wooden counters where staff wait, though none head over to the photo corner. According to office director Lisa Wilson, there is no accurate record of the number of cards issued each year since 2007, because the office’s software can’t crunch the numbers that far back. Though she provided me with a total from the past year, she insists that she is unable to track the annual changes in registration numbers. Still, the department’s website and the downloadable application form suggest a certain sleepiness in the office; they lack, for example, consistent information about the hours during which an applicant can obtain the card, as though there is nobody ensuring they are updated.


The lines are generally short, and for those who do come in, getting the card is easy. The staff does not ask for any information beyond residents’ full name, date of birth, and address, in addition to the required documents. According to Wilson, employees do not compile information about residents’ demographics, immigration status, or area of residence within New Haven. In essence, they operate with a “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy, but without any fanfare. However, the online application, which is more detailed than the single page I get at the office, hints at the threat that follows some applicants: “Would you like the City of New Haven to keep confidential your name and residential address as listed in this application to the extent permitted by law?” Applicants check a box: “Yes/Si” or “No.” Employees do not keep copies of the identifying documents, such as passports or consular IDs, or proof of residence, such as utility bills or employment pay stubs. They collect ten dollars from each adult applicant and five dollars from each child. Then they move on and assist the next person in line.


Neither the city nor the police nor community groups collect information on which ID card holders lack federal U.S. documents.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: HANH NGUYEN**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE NEW JOURNAL
28
continue to sign up are indeed 
the immigrants who stand to 
benefit most from it, the card 
may have achieved some of 
its goals. Martha Okafur, who 
started as Community Services 
Administrator in June, said her 
department is in the process of 
assessing what still needs to be 
done to help the unbanked, and 
plans to discuss with banks their 
reluctance to accept the card. 
But without the data, the only 
way to find out what’s really go­
ing on is to speak to members of 
the community. 

Ten years ago, chances are 
that I would have been mugged 
on my bike ride to Fair Haven, 
says neighborhood resident Ru­
ben Mallma, an organizer for the 
immigrant rights group Familias 
en Camino. Crime rates in the 
area were higher back then, and 
he credits the ID for contrib­
uting to a sense of safety in his 
neighborhood.
Fair Haven, the city’s im­
migrant hub and home to thou­
sands, is the place to watch when 
following New Haven’s progress 
on immigration issues. It is dif­
ficult to obtain accurate figures, 
since undocumented individu­
als may be wary of officials who 
are collecting population statis­
tics. But according to “A City to 
Model,” approximately 3,000 
to 5,000 people in Fair Haven 
are undocumented. About half 
of the neighborhood’s popula­
tion is Latino, with people from 
Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, and sur­
rounding countries.
Mallma’s stories illustrate 
the difficult realities and daily 
problems that the ID card at­
tempted to address: Residents 
without bank accounts were of­
ten robbed, and were too fear­
ful of the police to report the 
crimes. He knew of eight peo­
ple living in a three-bedroom 
apartment in Fair Haven whose 
three-bedroom apartment was 
burglarized ten years ago but 
they did not tell police. Another 
man got off a public bus with 
the money from four paychecks 
in his pocket. He was chased by 
a thief until Mallma pulled him 
into his house. Since police were 
often not alerted about these 
crimes, they could not keep ac­
curate statistics. But newspa­
pers reported that the undocu­
mented were called “walking 
ATMs,” and people kept track 
of the situation through stories 
passed from one neighbor to 
the other.
Many of the city’s undocu­
mented have little hope of ob­
taining citizenship, unless they 
are able to marry a U.S. citizen 
or find an employer to spon­
sor them. So they find ways to 
conceal their status. Two de­
cades ago, many of the people 
Mallma knew carried fake docu­
ments.  Some had papers from 
people who were deceased in 
other states. Others used their 
IRS tax identification numbers 
instead of Social Security num­
bers. Living in the shadows, 
people couldn’t help but feel 
that they didn’t quite belong in 
“When the police knock 
on your door, or when the po­
lice stop you for driving your 
car without a driver’s license, or 
when you try to buy something 
by credit and you are denied, 
you think, ‘What am I doing 
over here?’ You, as a person, you 
are nothing,” Mallma says. 
David Hartman, the me­
dia liaison for the New Haven 
Police Department, states that 
when the Elm City Resident 
ID Card was first implemented, 
the number of burglaries and 
robberies reported in Fair Ha­
ven increased—and the police 
actually found that encourag­
ing. The change suggested that 
people were more willing to re-


---

AUGUST 2014
29
port crimes. Overall crime rates 
dropped across the city in fol­
lowing years, and Hartman says 
that the ID card was part of the 
change. With more people turn­
ing to the police, “those people 
that were perpetrating these 
crimes realized that their de­
scriptions were going to be out 
there,” making it more likely 
that they would be apprehend­
ed. Indeed, crime reports for the 
county show that the robbery 
rate dropped steadily after 2007, 
while the burglary and larceny 
rates jumped by several hundred 
in 2008 and then returned to 
lower levels. However, it is all 
but impossible to determine if 
the Elm City card was the pri­
mary cause of these changes.
At a small meeting of Uni­
dad Latina members in April, 
I seat myself next to John Jairo 
Lugo, the bearded organizer 
whose name often appears in 
news articles about the latest 
immigrants’ rights protests. Uni­
dad Latina, founded in 2003, is 
the new kid on the block, as far 
as Latino rights organizations 
go; its collaborator, JUNTA, 
which also works on issues af­
fecting the Latino population, 
has been around since 1969. But 
there are still over twenty peo­
ple gathered in the long, wood-
floored room in the New Haven 
People’s Center on Howe Street. 
There is an old A.B. Chase 
piano in the corner, next to the 
whiteboard where Lugo stands 
with a dry-erase marker in hand, 
poised for discussion. The walls 
are adorned with a black-and-
white image of Rosa Parks, a 
poster commemorating “Amer­
ica’s Labor Heritage,” a paint­
ing by the Mexican artist Di­
ego Rivera, and a collection of 
children’s drawings on colored 
construction paper with mes­
sages addressed to “Dear Mayor 
Toni Harp.”  
Knowing that I came to 
hear people’s stories, Lugo turns 
to one of the other early arriv­
als and says, in Spanish, “Marco, 
you have the ID card, right?” 
When the skinny man next to 
me assents, Lugo grins: “Your 
first victim,” he says to me, be­
fore turning back to the man. 
“Only if you want to [talk], 
of course.”  
“People want the card,” 
Marco Rodriguez tells me in 
Spanish. “It’s good.” Not great, 
not life-changing. But he did use 
it to open several bank accounts. 
However, many people, he tells 
me, cannot apply for the card, 
because they do not receive 
utility bills in their name. That 
makes providing proof of resi­
dence difficult.
Lugo points to a couple 
other people as they walk in, re­
peating his question, and each 
man pulls out his card from his 
wallet and extends it toward me, 
so I can see. I know what the 
cards look like from photos, so 
I am not sure what more I am 
supposed to find printed on the 
white surfaces. It is simply a mo­
ment of proof, of providing the 
identification that was asked for.
The meeting’s agenda in­
cludes the dispute over under­
paid, undocumented workers at 
Gourmet Heaven and the cases 
of several residents who were 
arrested by ICE. As Lugo at­
tempts to rally people for a pro­
test in the following weeks, he 
tries to convince a woman in the 
back that one does not need to 
be documented to participate. 
But after her own experience 
being detained, she is afraid to 
take such a risk: “I haven’t got­
ten over the trauma,” she says.
Looking back at the 2007 
raids, New Haven’s most public 
round of deportation, it is clear 
that ICE cannot round up the 
undocumented without proper 
warrants for arrest. But it can 
entangle people in years of legal 
battles, with the threat of extra­
dition constantly hanging over 
their heads. Of the twenty im­
migrants represented by the Yale 
Law School’s Jerome N. Frank 
Legal Services Organization af­
ter the raid, all were released 
except two, and the rest decided 
to either voluntarily leave the 
U.S. or to seek outside counsel, 
according to Wishnie. When 
eleven were awarded compen­
sation of $350,000 in 2012, the 
Yale Law School reported that it 
was the “largest monetary settle­
ment ever paid by the United 
States in a suit over residential 
immigration raids, and the first 
to include both compensation 
and immigration relief.” Howev­
er, not everyone is so lucky, and 
no amount of money can take 
away the anxiety that the wom­
an at the meeting—and thou­
sands like her—live with daily.
This fear lies at the core 
of the Elm City ID’s struggles. 
Even 
when 
official 
policies 
change, people’s attitudes might 
not. The ID card arrived soon 
after another victory for immi­
grant groups; in 2006, the local 
police department ruled that 
officers cannot ask about wit­
nesses’ or victims’ immigration 



30
status. This measure was intended to encourage 
undocumented residents to report crime; previ­
ously, if they gave their name to the police, they 
ran the risk of being matched to ICE’s national 
database. New Haven police followed officials in 
several other cities in declaring that their role was 
not to enforce federal law, but to keep the city 
safe. Last year, Connecticut as a whole took an­
other step toward curtailing ICE’s powers by be­
coming the second state to sign the TRUST Act, 
promising not to detain immigrants unless they 
are convicted of serious crimes. 
Still, a 2012 report by JUNTA and the Trans­
national Development Clinic at the Yale Law 
School stated that there is still “widespread suspi­
cion” among Fair Haven residents about the resi­
dent ID card. Rumors persist, the report noted, 
that the card is solely for people who did not have 
papers or that federal officials will use it to detain 
undocumented workers. Okafor, the Community 
Services Administrator, says that until her staff 
starts meeting with focus groups and conducting 
interviews in September, they cannot know the 
community’s current attitudes toward the card. 
Anecdotes are, for now, the only evidence.
The card hopes to make residents feel safer in 
their community, but after past run-ins with the 
local police, some residents remain wary. After the 
meeting, Abel Sanchez, who has lived in New Ha­
ven for fourteen years, tells me that a policeman 
stopped him three years ago while driving—“I 
knew it was racist,” he says—and did not accept 
the card. It is useful as an identification document 
when dealing with the city’s trash collection ser­
vices, he adds. But he doesn’t have much more to 
say about it, and he knows of only a few friends 
who have one.
Domingo Lopez, who has lived in New Haven 
for twenty-two years, tells me the ID is important 
here. He uses it at businesses and hospitals, and 
he has even opened a bank account. But he has 
also had problems with the police, even during the 
time he has had the card: “They see that you’re 
Latino, and they bad-mouth you,” he says. How­
ever, when I ask him for more details, he tells me 
that his last problem with a policeman was five 
years ago. 
Latrina Kelly-James, the deputy director for 
Development & Programs at JUNTA, says the 
people she works with understand that ICE and 
local police operate independently, and that the 
municipal ID has helped give residents a sense of 
pride in New Haven. “The card makes them feel 
part of the city and makes them feel civically en­
gaged,” she says. 
However, the card is ineffective beyond city 
limits, where they may face other threats. In 2010, 
after being sued by residents, the city of East 
Haven was found guilty of repeatedly harassing 
Latinos. The city paid a $450,000 settlement in 
June 2014, but residents are still uneasy outside 
New Haven.
 “When you have a welcoming city and two 
blocks down, you have a fear of being deported, 
that sense of fear is always going to be there,” 
Kelly-James notes. 
Back in the People’s Center, Lugo asks a man 
who was released after being detained for eight 
months to come speak at the front of the room. 
As the man tells it, he was on his way to buy a sand­
wich when the police stopped him and sent him 
to immigration services. Lugo pulls out a mailing 
envelope and, with a flourish, hands the man at 
the front of the room his own United States Em­
ployment Authorization Card. “You can get Social 
Security, and a driver’s license,” Lugo tells him, 
and the man looks genuinely moved as he holds 
the card in his hand, until someone shouts from 
the back, “You can pay taxes, too!” Lugo takes a 
photo of the man holding up the card as he poses 
at the front of the room. 
Documentation is coveted in this community. 
Even though the national card is just a temporary 
work permit, it is prized. And it grants far more 
privileges than New Haven’s local ID ever will.  
The Elm City ID can help holders accomplish 
everyday tasks, but it only works if city organiza­
tions and companies accept it. Liberty Bank and 
Start Community Bank, both local banks, accept 
the card as a primary form of identification from 
people who wish to open a bank account. But, de­
spite DeStefano’s early efforts, many of the city’s 
largest banks do not. 
TD Bank, People’s United Bank, and Web­
ster Bank do not accept the card as identifica­
tion when opening an account. Webster spokes-



**Title: The Elm City ID**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
UNDER NEW HAVEN’S MUNICIPAL ID LAW, RESIDENTS CAN APPLY FOR AN ID AT THE OF­FICE OF VITAL STATISTICS AT CITY HALL WITHOUT PROOF OF IMMIGRATION STATUS.

person Sarah Barr said the bank is limited in 
the types of identification it can use, because it 
is a national bank that requires permission from 
federal regulators. 

An employee at Citizens Bank who asks to re­
main anonymous tells me that residents come in 
once or twice a month requesting to open an ac­
count with the municipal ID. “I wish I could take 
it. I get so many people who come in and that’s 
all they’ve got,” he says, but a manager explains 
that the bank’s policy is based on “government-
issued IDs”—and apparently New Haven’s does 
not make the cut.

Chase, Wells Fargo, and Sovereign Bank will 
take the card as a secondary form of ID. First Ni­
agara spokesperson Karen Crane said the bank 
would also take it “on an exception basis,” when 
New Haven residents who are applying for bank­
ing services do not have other approved forms of 
identification and if the bank manager approves 
it. She cannot guarantee the same outcome in 
every case. 

The murkiness of banks’ policies leads to 
confusion among residents and means that fewer 
of them end up opening accounts. According to 
the 2012 JUNTA report, residents in the organi­
zation’s focus groups were more likely to try to 
open accounts at big-name banks, which means 
that some may have been denied accounts simply 
for turning to the wrong bank. (Start Community 
Bank, for example, had had only 148 people open 
accounts using the Elm City Resident ID as of 
August of this year.) Only 48 percent of people 
surveyed reported having a bank account, and 27 
percent stated that they used no financial services, 
including credit cards, prepaid cards, or check-
cashing. Residents who could not open bank ac­
counts because they lacked proper identification 
or because they didn’t understand the identifica­
tion requirements were left without a safe, reliable 
way to manage their money. 

Beyond the banks, only some local businesses 
accept the card as photo documentation. In a 2012 
study titled “Documenting the Undocumented,” 
three Yale students concluded that Latinos were 
more likely than whites to be carded when paying 
with a check. However, stores were more likely to 
accept Ameracard—an unofficial ID, from a com­
pany based in Stamford that can be purchased on­
line without proof of one’s identity—than the Elm 
City Resident ID. The problem, the researchers 
reported, was largely the municipal ID’s amateur­
ish design and unofficial-sounding name. 

If New Haven wants people to renew their ID 
cards, it will have to convince them that the card 
is a useful investment of time and money. At pres­
ent, people lack information about its processing, 
and banks’ and businesses’ unwillingness to par­
ticipate makes the card ineffective. 

Luis Alberto Lopez, another New Haven resi­
dent, tells me that ten members of his extended 
family have the card, but it hasn’t helped them


much. Bank of America turned 
it down when he attempted 
to open a bank account, and 
Walmart and Comcast refused 
to accept it as photo ID when 
he tried to make credit-card 
payments several years ago. A 
policeman in North Branford 
stopped a car he was a passen­
ger in and asked about the ID, 
“Where did you get this one?” 
“As soon as I realized that no­
body takes it, I realized that I 
better use my passport,” Lopez 
says, referring to his Mexican 
documentation.

Another immigrant couple 
Mallma introduces me to says 
that neither of them has the 
card, though they have been 
living in New Haven for eight 
years. The man tells me that the 
consular ID he uses marks him 
as a foreigner, so the Elm City 
ID would probably be good to 
have. But his wife states they 
did not have much information 
about it earlier, and now she can­
not apply because her passport 
is expired. Their answers about 
the card are, in many ways, half-
hearted; they alternate between 
lukewarm positivity and verbal 
shoulder-shrugging. After a pro­
longed conversation, the man 
concludes that there is no real 
difference between the munici­
pal ID and the consular one: “I 
don’t get a better job if I have 
the card. It neither betters nor 
worsens life. It’s the same.” 

The municipal ID has cer­
tainly helped some New Haven 
residents, but with mediocre re­
views and little current publicity, 
current residents may not hear 
about the benefits in the years to 
come. And the 2014 changeover 
in the city’s administration intro­
duced a new set of officials who 
were not around for the exten­
sive community discussions that 
led to the creation of the card. 

Though Laurence Grotheer, the 
new mayor’s communications 
director, tells me that the city is 
still considering adding a debit 
function to the card, he adds 
that there is no real timetable 
for such a change. Instead, he 
points to another city project, 
the Shop•Dine•Park gift card, 
released in January 2014, which 
can be loaded with money to 
serve as a debit card at parking 
meters or to make purchases at 
more than two hundred partici­
pating local businesses—as the 
flagship ID card never could.  

At present, seemingly more 
legitimate forms of identifica­
tion also threaten the success of 
the New Haven card. Starting in 
2015, undocumented immigrants 
will be able to obtain Connecti­
cut drivers’ licenses, though 
they will be marked “for driving 
purposes only” on the back and 
will have to be renewed every 
three years. 

Emily Tucker, an attorney 
for immigrant rights and racial 
justice at the Brooklyn-based 
Center for Popular Democracy, 
says that New Haven’s work still 
serves as a model for the rest of 
the country, where municipal 
ID’s are the focus of many peo­
ple’s efforts. The center has been 
one of the groups instrumental 
in developing the legislation in 
New York, after conducting a 
comprehensive review of the 
nation’s municipal ID card pro­
grams. “New Haven was at the 
forefront, so all of the lessons 
learned from that campaign, we 
knew they were going to come 
up for us too,” she says. But they 
also took into account the card’s 
shortcomings.

Theoretically, a municipal 
ID could offer even more advan­
tages than a DMV-issued card or 
a Shop•Dine•Park card. Where 
the city has failed—in getting an 
official-looking design and offer­
ing discounts to card users—cit­
ies such as San Francisco and 
Oakland have succeeded.

In New York City, where the 
undocumented population con­
sists of about 500,000 people, 
some of the key concerns raised 
at the start of the Elm City ID 
program and those in other 
cities are being revisited on a 
larger scale. Questions remain 
about why New York City will 
keep copies of applicants’ docu­
ments—such as pay stubs or 
children’s educational records—


for at least two years. The New 
York Civil Liberties Union re­
fused to support the legisla­
tion because of concerns that 
the police department, FBI, or 
Department of Homeland Se­
curity could force the city to 
turn over the records without 
probable cause. 

There is still a vocal group of 
Americans opposed to measures 
that are so openly supportive 
of immigrant groups, and these 
voices exacerbate the worries 
of the population now gingerly 
approaching new forms of iden­
tification. William Gheen, the 
president of the Americans for 
Legal Immigration PAC, states 
that New Haven is still a sign of 
the federal government’s terrible 
willingness to turn a blind eye 
to the “illegals” in the country. 
When the card was first released, 
his group distributed bilingual 
pamphlets in forty states with 
the instructions: “Come to New 
Haven CT for sanctuary. Bring 
your friends and family mem­
bers quickly.” His opinion has 
changed little since 2007, when 
anti-immigrant groups such as 
the Yankee Patriot Association, 
Southern Connecticut Citizens 
for Immigration Reform, and 
the Community Watchdog Proj­
ect protested against the card. 
“It sends a clear message to en­
courage illegal aliens to enter 
the United States,” he says.  

DeStefano, 
the 
former 
mayor, is not blind to the city’s 
failure to build a complete sup­
port structure for the immigrant 
population. But he slips out of 
the precision of policy makers 
into the language of an idealist 
when I ask why he still believes 
that the country will come to 
embrace its immigrants: “There 
is an American identity that 
does value freedom and does 
respect hard work and does 
value choice and does respect 
decency,” he says. 

Even if New Haven’s mu­
nicipal ID card still needs some 
work to be effectively inte­
grated into the political, social, 
and economic life of the city, it 
outlined a process to help resi­
dents considered “illegal,” allow­
ing other cities to learn from 
the Elm City’s successes and 
missteps.

Okafor, of the Community 
Services Administration, says 
expects to see Toni Harp’s ten­
ure as mayor to bring greater 
collaboration with banks, as 
per the card’s original goals. 

The summer has brought the 
early stages of planning, as she 
attempts to assess the barriers 
still in place for undocumented 
residents who have not man­
aged to open accounts. In the 
meantime, many are still in 
economic limbo.

Idealists brought the card to 
New Haven, but it remains to be 
seen whether the idea can stay 
alive—and whether programs 
like it are the right answer for 
America’s undocumented. “We 
strive for perfection. We do 
not always accomplish perfec­
tion,” DeStefano adds, before he 
leaves for work. 

IF NEW HAVEN 
WANTS PEOPLE TO 
RENEW THEIR ID 
CARDS, IT WILL 
HAVE TO CONVINCE 
THEM THAT THE 
CARD IS A USEFUL 
INVESTMENT OF 
TIME AND MONEY.

Maya Averbuch is a junior 
in Berkeley College. 
She is the managing editor of 
the New Journal.



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Carleen Liu**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I know the best mornings are made of 
pancake batter, warm skin, loose stockings,
how to count tree rings, 
the precise moment to
bite into a persimmon—
how to catch them 
before they splatter onto the ground.
The red in my bottom lip is proof 
I shouldn’t have, but  
I swallowed the pomegranate seed 
anyway. 

When I came home for the holidays,
I didn’t tell my mother a tree started 
growing inside me	
 without her
my roots have sunken 
into things darker than soil
deeper than earth, and
I’ve started to hunger for
things other than harvest.
But in postcards to her
from places like empty apartments 
and the edges of the ocean, 
I write:	
“Doing fine. Miss you.” in the language of 
the dead.
I never pick the prettiest flower anymore,
pluck it right out of the ground.
That is something girls do—
girls who do not know 
how easy it is 
for the ground to break open,
how fathers will stand by
in old college sweatshirts and watch. 
The difference between 
sinking and drowning  
is the acceptance of fate.
Sometimes 
I dip myself in the river 
to forget. 
All the hours are violet here.  
From Persephone
poetry


**Title: Watching**
**Author: Ariel Katz**

This is what happened when 
a twenty-three-year-old humpback 
threw herself out of the water:
the guide told us that breaching 
is inexplicable, and that she herself
once tried to lob her body out of its context.
We hooted when our whale
hit her white tail against the sea surface.
It makes me want to cry, a woman said.
A line of red blood ran down a man’s ankle
from an old wound, recently disturbed,
maybe by the ship—it sent us all into each other. 
We stepped on feet, grasped strange shoulders—
there weren’t enough rails to hold.
Girls in identical dresses used their hands to keep
skirts from becoming inverted umbrellas:
they staggered. The guide said in her ponytailed
voice, whale tails are like fingerprints. 
We jostled each other
as the black tire back rolled into and out of our air 
and the intersection tail split the horizon.
Finally, there was the full whale, 
whose largeness was still unseen 
even when the body came before us.
We stretched our cameras and 
tried to keep out the whorls of fingers.


**Title: Unintelligent Design**
**Author: John Stillman**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

L
ast year, I embarked on a mission at the behest 
of the great American inventor Greg Steiner, 
whose legend preceded him, as legends often do 
in the era of the World Wide Web. I discovered 
him while searching for what remained of the 
workbench tinkerer. Lacking fluency in the arcane 
languages of the high-tech tools that had come to 
govern my life, and armed with a degree in history, 
of all things, I feared being cut off by the 21st cen­
tury’s blade of progress. I wanted some assurance 
that the tinkerer lived on. 
Steiner is, after all, the creator of the famous 
Squeeze Breeze, a hand-held spray bottle with an 
attached fan that allows users to cool off by mist­
ing themselves during, say, a Little League prac­
tice. The Squeeze Breeze is the epitome of what 
he calls “junk inventions,” items that can be made 
in five hours or less. Having sold 80 million units, 
Steiner is king of the junk inventors. And here he 
was, offering his Midas touch to wannabes like 
myself. On Steiner’s website, an Einstein-esque 
caricature named Professor Thinksalot declares 
his noble intentions: “Sincerely Helping the First 
Time Inventor.”
I had read that the wellspring of Yankee inge­
nuity had slowed to a trickle. After Eli Whitney ’92 
(that’s 1792) invented the cotton gin, Yalies all but 
ditched the business of simpler machines. The in­
ventors of yore—Ben Franklin and the like, whose 
Eureka moments became the stuff of American 
folktales—were consolidated in corporate R&D 
departments, which discouraged the more radi­
cal, harebrained, and heroic breakthroughs of de­
centralized innovation. Individuals in the U.S. are 
granted fewer patents today than they were in the 
seventies, both on a per capita basis and as a per­
centage of overall patents issued. 
I wondered what had become of the tinkerers 
who comprised that shrinking sliver, and how, in 
this day and age, they could ride their ideas to the 
top. So I decided to try it myself.
Like any good junk inventor, I had an eye on 
life’s smallest, peskiest, and least-addressed prob­
lems. Loofahs grow moldy, dryers turn socks in­
side out, car seats overheat when you park in 
the sun. Solving these issues is hardly a priority 
for the human race, but if everyone aimed for 
the Nobel Prize, the shoelace would never have 
been invented. 
Aspiring inventors navigate an industry that 
makes big profits from their unrealized dreams
by John Stillman
critical angle
“THE WRAPPER-COMPACTOR” JOHN STILLMAN


ability to turn inventors’ ideas 
into high-grossing products—
dream factories, I thought. I 
completed the forms provided 
and submitted my idea. Before 
long, my phone was ringing off 
the hook with calls from repre­
sentatives all over the country, 
eager to lend me their wisdom. 
Needless to say, I was flattered. 
When I walked into his of­
fice in Braintree, Massachusetts, 
Carl Cook, a New Product Re­
cruiter for Invents Company, 
LLC, asked me to sign a form 
acknowledging that the odds 
were not in my favor. 
“Ninety-one thousand peo-
ple have sat in your shoes,” 
Cook said, and that was just 
last year. Of those hopeful in­
ventors, a mere 381 made it to 
the next stage, in which the 
company’s 
researchers, 
engi­
neers, and marketers get in­
volved. From that point, just 
eleven inventions made a profit
 for their inventors.
We met in a three-room 
suite across the hall from Ameri­
can Laser Skincare (whose door 
promises 
“Beauty 
Through 
Technology”) in Braintree Ex­
ecutive Park. The reception 
area bookshelf was decorated 
with “As Seen On TV” inven­
tions: the Booty Slide, the Lint 
Lizard, Silly Slippeez, the Sift 
& Toss. Cook’s sole colleague 
at Invents Company’s so-called 
Boston office was Bruce, a 
portly, avuncular man roughly 
one decade Cook’s elder. Both 
employees 
wore 
black-gray 
paisley-patterned ties and had 
ruddy complexions. 
Professor Thinksalot 
of­
fered a list of “the most impor­
tant inventions” to help me on 
my way: Telephone, Light Bulb, 
Microwave, 
Airplane, 
Print­
ing Press, Computer, Skate­
board, Pacemaker, Can Opener. 
I clicked on “Inventors Club,” 
and entered my name and email 
address while membership was 
still free. When the site failed to 
process my request, I called the 
number for the company’s office 
in Downers Grove, Illinois, and 
was greeted by the shrill buzz of 
corporate extinction. 
But in the days that fol­
lowed, the idea came to me. ‘Eu­
reka!’ as they say. 
I encountered many nay­
sayers on my journey from idea 
to product, but rejection only 
hardened my resolve to forge 
ahead. I entered in the Yale En­
trepreneurial Society’s “Elevator 
Pitch Competition” with a shot 
at winning $300, but I never 
even got to present my idea to 
the judges. I also entered in the 
“What’s your thousand dollar 
idea?” competition sponsored 
by a student hacking group 
called Y-Hack, and I finished in 
ninth place, behind seven pro­
posals for software applications 
and one for a t-shirt brand. 
Forsaken by Steiner, Think­
salot, and my classmates, I 
sought a local support group in 
the Inventors’ Association of 
Connecticut, hoping to pick up 
some pearls of wisdom from in­
dustry veterans and meet other 
innovatively inclined Average 
Joes. At the IACT monthly 
meeting, a few dozen people a 
few dozen years older than me 
gathered to discuss their hopes, 
their fears, and—with shifty 
eyes and cautious words—their 
ideas. When their leader, Dr. 
Douglas Lyon, a short, sinewy 
man with a stringy ponytail and 
a Ph.D. in Computer and Sys­
tems Engineering, asked me to 
introduce myself to the group, I 
told them I was an aspiring first-
time inventor in my senior year 
at Yale, majoring in history. 
“Oh, so you invented his­
tory?” quipped an elderly man in 
the group. The room erupted in 
laughter.
“I’m reminded of an old 
joke,” Dr. Lyon chimed in. “You 
can tell a man’s profession by the 
way he responds to a new inven­
tion. The engineer asks, ‘How 
does it work?’ The accountant 
asks, ‘How much does it cost?’ 
The history major asks, ‘You 
want fries with that?’”
Again, the crowd went wild. 
Tail between my legs, I re­
turned to the Internet to seek 
other help. A cursory Google 
search returned a handful of 
companies 
advertising 
their 
“[THESE COM­
PANIES] DON’T 
MAKE THEIR 
MONEY FROM 
THE INVENTION. 
THEY MAKE THEIR 
THE INVENTOR.”



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AUGUST 2014
37
Cook explained the com­
pany’s services: a patent search 
and feasibility report ($800 to 
$1,100) and then, should the 
projections look promising, rep­
resentation (another $8,000 to 
$11,000). It wasn’t cheap, but 
I was beginning to believe in 
my idea. Besides, only a cow­
ard folds a royal flush. More­
over, I didn’t have to put down 
any money just yet. I charged 
ahead 
with 
my 
pitch 
and 
slid the preliminary sketches 
across the table. 

I call it the Wrapper-Com­
pactor: a little tube for dispos­
ing wrappers and other small 
pieces of trash, complete with a 
little plunger to cram them into 
the bottom. Never again would 
Cook have to worry about the 
detritus generated by the dish 
of Jolly Ranchers on his desk. 
I could tell he was impressed. 
He submitted my idea to Tom 
D’Francesco, at the New York 
office, for review.

“If anybody,” D’Francesco 
told me over the phone, “—my­
self, Carl, anybody—tells you, 
‘Yeah you have a great idea,’ 
they’re blowing smoke up your 
butt.” I tried not to let his gruff 
manner discourage me. “If we 
went on every inventor’s gut 
feelings, I don’t even wanna tell 
you where we’d be.”

I asked for more informa­
tion on Invents Company’s top 
products, but he dodged the 
question. His advice was simple: 
“Don’t compare yourself. Don’t 
get caught up on the products 
that made it. Focus on all the 
products that didn’t make it. 
Find out why they didn’t make 
it.” Defiantly eager to behold 
success, I called up one of the 
inventors touted on the Invents 
Company website. 

Anthony Capozzo lives on 
a quiet street in Milford, Con­
necticut, with his wife and two 
children, in a house with central 
heating, bathrooms, and a back­
yard deck fashioned with his 
own two hands. He makes a liv­
ing repairing washing machines, 
dryers, microwaves, and refrig­
erators, and has mounds of spare 
parts stockpiled in his own per­
sonal man cave. He also sawed a 
hole in the ceiling so that he has 
space to practice his golf swing. 

The ultimate do-it-yourself­
er, Capozzo invented the Sure 
Tarp, a tarp with weighted edges, 
so that when a storm blows in, 
you can cover your gear quickly 
(no need for bungee cords) and 
head indoors. He took his idea 
on the train into Manhattan, 
entered a 7th Avenue skyscraper 
and rode the elevator up to the 
11th floor, where a representa­
tive named Phil laid out the 
total cost of his venture with 
Invents 
Company: 
$12,000. 
This was out of Capozzo’s price 
range, but when he pitched 
the investment to his siblings, 
they got on board. The Capoz­
zos love to gamble, he says, and 
the Sure Tarp was an once-in-a
-lifetime opportunity. 

After completing the initial 
research, Invents Company de­
veloped a thirty-second televi­
sion commercial to gauge con­
sumer interest in the Sure Tarp. 
Despite D’Francesco’s claim that 
the company runs ads in careful­
ly calculated locations to get an 
accurate understanding of the 
product’s potential, the ad ran 
a total of four times exclusively 
in San Diego, where the average 
annual precipitation is less than 
twelve inches. By comparison, 
Capozzo’s hometown of Milford 
gets 50 inches per year. Though 
consumer response was posi­
tive, Capozzo was told, none of 
the 30,000 manufacturers in 
the Invents Company network 
were interested in producing 
the invention.

When I visited Capozzo at 
home, I saw that the firewood 
in his backyard is covered by 
an old-fashioned tarp. It had 
been there ever since his pro­
totype broke. He has vented 
about the debacle to his next-
door neighbor, Bob. We mean­
dered over to Bob’s stoop, and 
Bob launched into a rant about 
those insufferably out-of-touch 
New Yorkers who let the Sure 
Tarp die. It’s a conversation the 
two friends have rehashed time 
and time again.  

“We all hope Tony gets rich!” 
Bob said. 

“No, I don’t wanna get rich, 
Bob,” Capozzo replied. “I just 
wanna pay my mortgage off.”

When Cook informed me 
that Invents Company had de­
cided to pass on the Wrapper-
Compactor, I chalked it up to 
bureaucratic myopia and turned 
my attention to the other suit­
ors who had been flooding my 
voicemail with eager entreaties.

There was Bob White, of 
Patently Brilliant, who told me, 
“Yours is a long term product—
it’ll be around for a long, long 
time,” and informed me of the 
$800 pay-to-play fee.

There was Didier from Mi­


--- Page 38 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
38
ami who, before even mention­
ing the price tag for his com­
pany’s services, asked, “Are you 
doing this alone or do you have 
support from your family?”

But there was one man who 
seemed different than the rest. 
His name is Stephen P. Gnass, 
and inventors of all stripes sing 
his praises on the testimonials 
page of his website. 

“I have come to depend 
on him to protect me from my 
own excitement to keep me 
from making a poor decision,” 
confess the inventors of the 
Swivel Car Seat.

“Stephen has a seemingly 
bottomless wellspring of knowl­
edge,” writes the creator of Bliss 
Trips: Guided Journey CDs.

“You zeroed in on what we 
needed to do and showed us 
exactly how to move towards 
bringing our dreams to fruition,” 
attest the inventors of the Metra 
Stress Reducer. 

Gnass’ website describes 
him as a TV-famous “inventors’ 
advocate.” Though he holds no 
patents himself, he has made a 
career of advising inventors. He 
offers prospective clients a thir­
ty-minute “free complimentary 
brainstorm,” just the sort of no-
strings wisdom I’d been looking 
for. Before our call, I consulted 
his 
“Successtimonials” 
page, 
where I read of Gaile Spalione, 
inventor of Mop Flops. I decid­
ed to track her down.

When I reached Spalione at 
her home in Reseda, California, 
she was babysitting her grand­
children. She conceived of dual-
purpose footwear around sev­
enteen years ago, as she bustled 
about the house caring for her 
children and dreamed of a way 
to collapse two domestic duties 
into one. She took her idea to a 
variety of companies, and ended 
up losing $25,000 to crooked 
people who promised much and 
delivered nothing. She attempt­
ed to file suit against one such 
racketeer, Davison & Associ­
ates, but was ultimately unable 
to recoup any losses.

In 2000, Spalione filed for 
and received a patent, paid to 
manufacture a first round of 
booties, and produced a com­
mercial for a local television 
station. The cost was exorbi­
tant, but her mother generously 
mortgaged her house to help 
fund the venture. 

Still looking for ways to pro­
mote her product, she found a 
convention geared for inventors 
looking to market their wares. 
She paid the entrance fee and set 
up a booth to promote her prod­
uct. At the convention she met 
the organizer, Stephen P. Gnass. 
He offered her a free consulta­
tion, and the two quickly devel­
oped a rapport. 

“Dear Stephen,” Spalione’s


--- Page 39 ---

39
AFTER ELI WHIT­
NEY ’92 (THAT’S 
1792) INVENTED 
THE COTTON GIN, 
YALIES ALL BUT 
DITCHED THE 
BUSINESS OF SIM­
PLER MACHINES.
Successtimonial reads, “I must 
take this opportunity to express 
my sincerest gratitude for hav­
ing your sound advice and wis­
dom guiding me through this 
tangled invention process. You 
are my rock!”

The piles of unsold Mop 
Flops in Ms. Spalione’s garage—
roughly 2,000 pairs—offer a 
markedly less reassuring testa­
ment to the difficulty of making 
it as an inventor. She had con­
tacted a Chinese manufacturer 
in hopes of lowering produc­
tion costs, but when the ship­
ment arrived, she discovered the 
measurements had been lost in 
translation, leaving her with a 
lifetime supply of Mop Flops 
too miniature to wear.

Though Spalione doesn’t 
regret the venture and remains 
a devotee of Gnass, she admits 
disappointment at the outcome.

“I was hoping my idea 
would take off and I would 
become 
a 
millionaire 
over­
night,” she recalled wistfully. 
“I’m still waiting.” 

For Spalione and count­
less other would-be inventors 
facing similar marketing and 
supply-chain complications, the 
prospect of a one-stop-shop 
that shepherds you from idea to 
product is a tempting one. But 
as I learned from Gnass during 
our complimentary conversa­
tion, it’s never that easy.

“You would think that there 
would be a company that does 
it all for you,” Gnass told me. 
“Just hire them and they’ll do 
the drawing, make the proto­
type, give you the book, do the 
research, and take the invention 
to trade shows.” That was exactly the 
impression I’d been under.

My associates at Invents and else­
where had led me to believe they could 
magically bring my idea into reality. But 
having gone toe-to-toe with these com­
panies for decades, Gnass wanted to set 
the record straight: “They don’t make 
their money from the invention, they 
make their money from the inventor. 
They’re not stealing inventions or any­
thing like that because that’s not where 
they make their money.”

In other words, they operate by 
selling inventors’ ideas back to the in­
ventors themselves. The multi-phase, 
official-sounding process does little to 
advance the product to market. Instead, 
it exists to enamor inventors of their 
own ideas. These companies charge a 
small fortune and deliver their clients an 
overestimate of market demand and an 
exaggerated feasibility report.  

The world of analog innovation 
these days requires more than ingenu­
ity and elbow grease; at some point, 
you have to call in the professionals. 
The creation of an inventing industry 
within corporate R&D departments 
leaves outside inventors to navigate an 
obstacle course that almost always costs 
them thousands of dollars before they 
give up and leave their idea by the way­
side. Whereas software developers or 
app inventors—the tinkerers of my gen­
eration—can go from concept to mar­
ket without lifting a finger from Home 
Row, junk inventors depend on entities 
much larger than themselves. Even a ge­
nius can no longer act alone—and that 
leaves him vulnerable. That’s why com­
panies like Invents Company exist, and 
why they will continue to exist as long 
as average Americans like myself dream, 
even of junk, beyond our means.

John Stillman is a 2014 
graduate of Yale College.


**Title: Impact**
**Author: Eric Baudry**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

T-minus three hours. Your alarm goes off at 6:30 
AM. You wake up having no idea that today 
you will watch a woman die. 

T-minus two hours. Your residential college’s 
student council, on which you’re a sophomore 
representative, is the first to arrive at the tailgate. 
This is a victory, the chance to pick the best patch 
of grass. When the party starts, your grills will be 
prime real estate. You think there might be some 
advantage to being away from the crowds, but 
you’re too cold to make this point. The tempera­
ture is forty-five degrees, it’s the start of Thanks­
giving Break, and you could be in bed under your 
IKEA comforter, Warmth Rate Four. 

T-minus one hour. At 8:30, the first revelers trick­
le in, drinking or drunk or both. You’ve landed the 
position of Kebab Czar, so as soon as the grills 
are fired up, they assault your face with smoke 
and flood your nostrils with the smell of cooking 
meat. You don’t mind, because the grills are warm, 
and the closer you stay to them the less you fanta­
size about being back in your dorm. By 9:00, your 
world has become an endless wall of people, a hu­
man landscape broken only by the occasional grill 
or U-Haul. As promised, your tailgate seems to be 
the epicenter of activity. Drunk and hungry bodies 
descend on your shrimp and lamb kebobs like it’s 
their first meal in weeks.

T-minus one minute. At 9:38, someone yells for 
more hamburger buns. You’re standing near the 
supplies, so you reach under the plastic table to 
grab another bag. When you stand up you see a U-
Haul truck driving through the crowd. It doesn’t 
strike you as alarming or even abnormal because 
this is a tailgate and there are hundreds of people 
personal essay



**Title: Impact**
**Author: Eric Baudry**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and dozens of U-Hauls. 
Impact.
The U-Haul hits another U-Haul. 
Time is no longer linear.
You see a body on the ground at the same time 
you see a woman get hit, and you don’t know which 
happened first, if you’re remembering or just pro­
jecting backwards from the scene in front of you. 
Your insides twist violently, like a cloth 
being wrung out.
The sequence plays again in your mind, rear­
ranged but still scrambled.
The U-Haul blares its horn.
It hits another U-Haul. You see the sec­
ond U-Haul smash into a third. The sound of 
two U-Hauls colliding isn’t as loud as you would 
have predicted.
People run out of the way.
A woman gets knocked aside. 
A woman gets run over.
She disappears under the truck and is spit 
out the back end, flying ten feet and landing on 
her stomach.  
There is a body on the ground.
You see the driver get out of the truck. His 
face looks like he’s just run someone over. Which 
is exactly what he’s done. 
Other images arrive. There are ambulances 
and police tape and the crowd has cleared a space. 
Just moments before there had been countless 
bodies. Now there’s just one body, and the ground 
is coated in a layer of discarded paper plates and 
red solo cups. 
You think it can’t be real. People on the other 
side of the field are still dancing. But there are 
paramedics and a stretcher. Someone is check­
ing a pulse and a DJ is yelling through a mega­
phone to keep dancing. He doesn’t know about 
the body. You wish somebody would tell him. You 
would tell him, but you feel like you’re underwa­
ter. You’re holding your breath. You try to breathe 
but the air is too heavy. You feel like you’ve taken 
too much NyQuil. Your mind runs through the 
same moments on repeat: the truck, the horn, 
the crash, the body.
A minute passes, or an hour. Other people 
arrive at the tailgate, wanting to party. Looking 
for a drink and a good time. There’s been an ac­
cident, you try to tell them. “What happened?” 
they ask. It’s then you realize there are other ques­
tions you could ask, questions like what if you had 
set up your tailgate just fifty feet away, or what 
if the driver had turned the truck towards you, 
instead of away?
Your best friend wants to watch the foot­
ball game. You tag along, but you don’t do much 
watching. It’s like you’re drunk, only you’re sober. 
It’s everyone else who’s drunk. A man two rows in 
front of you moons the crowd.
You can’t stop the reel from playing. The quar­
terback throws a pass and the U-Haul slams into 
the parked vehicle. The crowd cheers and her 
body spits out the back end. It’s all superimposed. 
Two films at once, one over the other.
The truck hits the woman hits the ground. 
At halftime, the commentator announces 
she’s dead. There’s a moment of silence. A minute, 
ten seconds, you can’t remember. It’s too short. 
People shouldn’t be playing football, you think. 
Some friends leave the game early to find 
something to eat. You follow, but food does noth­
ing to relax the knotted sensation in your gut; no 
amount of mozzarella sticks or cheap pizza stops 
the procession of images in your head. You don’t 
say anything because you want to be polite — you 
don’t want to ruin everyone else’s day, but you 
wonder why they haven’t thought of ruining yours. 
“It’s OK,” you would tell them, “I can’t stop think­
ing about it either.”
This is not the first time you’ve encountered 
death at school. During your freshman year, a girl’s 
hair got caught in a lathe. Twelve months later, a 
boy filled a lab with gas. You read about these in­
cidents in the school newspaper over cereal and 
orange juice, but their deaths felt distant, diluted. 
There were already too many degrees of separa­
tion for raw emotion. There’s no filter for death 
that happens right in front of you. No arranging 
of facts or well-placed quotes from people who 
knew the victim. Just the immediate flash of sen­
sations. Then the endless repetition of memory. 
The truck, the horn, the crash, the body.
Eric Baudry is a 2014 
graduate of Yale College.



**Title: Bonescape**
**Author: Hayley Kolding**
**Page number(s): 41**

I took my sister to the boneyard 
when she refused to accept that any skull but her own
might have its strange, flat patches.
She was naive and expected crania,
on principle, to be round as the spinning
Earth. No use explaining
how calcification exceeds such simple calculus.
And so we wandered the white forest
with its shadows appearing not as black
but as other shades of white.
More amazing, the trees,
when they are jointed, their branches ossified.
Also the ferns, each leaflet like the parts
of a toe. Bright fleshless squirrels 
and wandering, naked moose.
Molly was vulgar and asked a passing man
if we might find a river of marrow.
Must she have ignored the un-yellow rattling
of wind across his hollow ribs?
Shame on her for forcing a confession
of how dry it is ‘round these parts.
Or was it my own fault, not having heeded the request
to leave our wet garments at the vestibule?
I may have been to blame. I,
the eldest sister. Still, it was my younger
who pointed at passersby
and howled in appreciation.
“Stop, stop!” cried one skeleton.
“You’re looking at me like I have meltaway bones!”
And indeed, Molly was salivating
over the limbs of sugar and food dye.
Damn that sister of mine, 
with her flat skull and infamous appetite.
—Hayley Kolding




**Title: Yale University Judaic Studies Courses - Fall 2014 Semester**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AUGUST 2014
43
YALE UNIVERSITY 


JUDAIC STUDIES COURSES - FALL 2014 SEMESTER 
CORE COURSE 
JDST 200 Jewish History and Thought to Early Modern Times, Ivan Marcus  TTh 11.35–12.50 

ANCIENT PERIOD 
JDST 016 Authorship, Originality & Forgery, Hindy Najman  MW 9am-10:15am 
JDST 110 The Bible, Christine Hayes  MW 11.35-12.50 
JDST 256 Dead Sea Scrolls: Damascus Document, Steven Fraade  W 9:25am-11:15am  
JDST 392 Mishnah Seminar Tractate Rosh HaShanah, Steven Fraade  Th 9:25am-11:15am 

MEDIEVAL & EARLY MODERN PERIOD 
JDST 270 Medieval Jews, Christians, and Muslims In Conversation, Ivan Marcus, T 1:30pm-3:20pm 

MODERN PERIOD 
JDST 025, Intellectual and Cultural History of European Jewry, 1648–1933, David Sorkin  MW 9.00-10.15am 
JDST 289 Representing the Holocaust, Maurice Samuels & Millicent Marcus TTh 2.30-3.45pm(& film screenings) 
JDST 332 Zionism, Elli Stern, MW 2:30pm-3:45pm 
(JDST 336) PHIL214 The Philosophies of Hegel and Schelling Paul Franks  MW 1.00-2.15 
JDST 337 Same-Sex Love in Jewish History, Shaun Halper W 3.30-5.30 
JDST 338 Beyond the God Hypothesis, Gabriel Citron M 3.30-5.20 
JDST 340, Political History of European Jewry, 1589–1897, David Sorkin MW 1.30-2.20pm 

HEBREW LITERATURE & LANGUAGE 
HEBR 110 Elementary Modern Hebrew I  Ayala Dvoretzky (M-F 10.30-11.20 or M-F 11.35-12.25) 
HEBR 117 Elementary Biblical Hebrew I  Jonathan Pomeranz  TTh 11.35-12.50 
HEBR 130 Intermediate Modern Hebrew I  Shiri Goren  (TTh 11.35-12.50  or TTh 4.00-5.15) 
JDST 321 Hebrew Modernist Poetry, Hannan Hever  Th 3.30-5.20 
JDST 323 State and Society in Israel, Dina Roginsky TTh 1.00-2.15 
JDST 360 Hebrew in a Changing World, Dina Roginsky  MW 1.00-2:15pm 
JDST 401 Academic Texts in Modern Hebrew, Dina Roginsky  MW 2:30pm-3:45pm 
JDST 409 Conversational Hebrew: Israeli Media, Shiri Goren  TTh 2:30pm-3:45pm 

GRADUATE COURSE 
JDST 651 Theories of Authorship & Canon, Hindy Najman & Irene Peirano T 1.30-3.20 
JDST 652 Mutual Influences in Jewish, Pagan, Christian, Samaritan, and Muslim Art in the Southern Levant in 
Late Antiquity, Rina Talgam  W 1.30-3.20 
JDST 670 Intro to Pahlavi (MiddlePersian), Oktor Skjaervo T 1.30-3.20 
JDST 677 Marxism and Literature, Hannan Hever 
JDST 799 Religion& Performance of Space, Sally Promey &Margaret Olin M 3.30-5.20 

Judaic Studies enables students to develop a substantial knowledge of the history, religion, literature, languages, and culture of the Jews. Jewish 
society, texts, ideologies, and institutions are examined in comparative perspective in the context of the history and culture of nations in which 
Jews have lived and created throughout the ages. 
Please note that information on courses, including meeting days and times, is subject to revision. Students should check the on-line course information 
for the fullest and most accurate information 


**Title: Windham Campbell Prizes Festival 2014**
**Page number(s): 44**

Prize Ceremony with  
keynote by Zadie Smith
Monday, September 15, 5 pm
Sprague Hall
98 Wall Street
Literary Speed Dating
Tuesday, September 16, 6 pm
Beinecke Library
121 Wall Street
Prizewinners Reading
Thursday, September 18, 7 pm
Whitney Humanities Center
53 Wall Street
Book signing to follow
For a full list of  
festival events visit 
windhamcampbell.org
FE S TIVA L  2014
W I N D H A M  C A M P B E L L  P R I Z E S
D R A M A
Kia  
Corthron 
Sam  
Holcroft 
Noëlle  
Janaczewska
FI C TI O N
Nadeem  
Aslam
Jim Crace
Aminatta  
Forna
N O N FI C TI O N
Pankaj  
Mishra
John  
Vaillant

