Publication date: Spring 2012
Volume: 44
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Whitney Schumacher
- Editors-in-Chief: Juliana Hanle, Aliyya Swaby
- Managing Editors: Benjamin Mueller, Cindy Ok
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Nicholas Geiser, Helen Knight, Nikita Lalwani, Sanjena Sathian
- Associate Editor: Eric Boodman, Sophia Nguyen
- Copy Editors: Cassie DaCosta, Justine Yan
- Staff Writer: Caroline Durlacher
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin
- Cover: Susannah Shattuck, Brianne Bowen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Points of Departure - 4
Snapshot - 12
Snapshot - 18
Endnote - 45
The Pardoners - Nikita Lalwani
Rebuilt & Recultured - Catherine Osborn
Flying the Stars - Jacque Feldman


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Snapshot**
**Author: Vlad Chituc**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Author: Benjamin Mueller**
**Page number(s): 18**


**Title: Endnote**
**Page number(s): 45**


**Title: The Pardoners**
**Author: Nikita Lalwani**
**Page number(s): 22**

America’s prisoners attempt to reenter a 
society that doesn’t want them back.


**Title: Rebuilt & Recultured**
**Author: Catherine Osborn**
**Page number(s): 30**

A mixed-income housing development 
now stands on the site of New Haven’s 
oldest project. How can the spirit of the old 
community help us evaluate the change?


**Title: Flying the Stars**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 39**

A feng shui consultant converts one skeptic 
along with her apartment.



**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Susannah Shattuck**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal
The Yale Type
         POINTS OF DEPARTURE
Susannah Shattuck
Pietro Bembo’s De Ætna, an esoteric 
Venetian manuscript printed in 1495. 
The text’s inventive typography makes 
it one of the most important works in 
the history of the printed word.
The story of the De Ætna type 
begins with Venetian publisher Aldus 
Manutius, who wanted to spread 
knowledge 
by 
printing 
portable 
and affordable versions of classical 
texts. To do this, he hired a master 
typographer named Francesco Griffo.
Griffo 
made 
a 
tremendous 
mark on the history of printing and 
punctuation. It was the De Ætna 
typeface that popularized the use 
of crisp and unornamented Roman 
characters in printing, replacing the 
archaic blackletter script introduced 
by Gutenberg. While Griffo was 
carving the De Ætna type, Manutius 
asked him to devise a way to separate 
interdependent clauses. Griffo solved 
the problem by inventing the first 
semicolon. A few years later, Griffo 
developed another innovation: a 
typeface 
fashioned 
after 
cursive 
handwriting. He called it Italic type, 
after the name of his homeland. 
Despite Griffo’s ingenuity, it 
was Manutius whose star continued 
to rise. Dissatisfied with his relative 
anonymity, Griffo left Manutius in 
1503 and crafted a set of Italic type for 
another Venetian publisher. Outraged, 
Manutius somehow convinced the 
Pope to decree that only the Manutius 
publishing house was permitted to 
use Italic type. Yet the Papal decree 
proved difficult to enforce, and the 
Italic style quickly spread throughout 
Europe. 
Meanwhile, Griffo was ruined. 
He only appears in the historical 
records once more, in 1516, when 
he was executed for murdering his 
son-in-law with an iron bar (which he 
probably used for carving type).
The Yale Typeface is not the first 
to take inspiration from De Ætna. 
Typographer Stanley Morrison’s 1929 
facsimile, named Bembo, quickly 
became one of the most admired 
typefaces of the twentieth century. 
However, when attempts were made 
to digitize Bembo decades later, 
something went terribly wrong. As 
the Yale Typeface website describes, 
“Unfortunately, the more recent 
photocomposition 
and 
digital 
versions of Bembo lack the vigor, 
weight, and formal integrity of either 
the De Ætna face or the original 
Monotype 
version 
of 
Bembo.” 
Designers around the world posted on 
bulletin boards lamenting the loss of 
a classic typeface. Rather than using a 
font lacking in formal integrity, Yale 
hired the world-famous typographer 
Matthew Carter, responsible for 
classics such as Georgia and Verdana, 
to design a private copy of the famed 
1495 original.
To understand De Ætna’s charm, I 
went to view Yale’s copy of the text in 
the Beinecke.  The book was tiny and 
beautiful. While the librarians weren’t 
looking, I brushed my finger against 
the world’s first semicolon; it was 
strangely satisfying. I compared the 
actual book to the printed specimens 
of the Yale Typface and Bembo that I 
had spread out on the desk. With both


Last November, Yale University 
Printer John Gambell stood before 
a group of twenty-five employees, 
spreading the gospel of the Yale 
Typeface. He politely explained why 
the academic departments whose 
communications they designed were 
no longer allowed to have unique 
logos set in their favorite font. Instead, 
their publications had to use the eight-
year-old typeface and the classic Yale 
Blue.  Over the course of several 
years, Gambell oversaw the creation 
of the Yale Typeface and designed 
a new, consistent campus signage 
system in order to standardize the 
University’s brand. But it wasn’t the 
experience of years or even decades, 
but rather centuries, that produced the 
Yale Typeface.
In many ways, the Typeface 
fits right in amongst Yale’s icons. 
It aspires to resemble a centuries-
old European artifact but is in fact 
relatively new—much like Yale’s 
neogothic architecture. The Typeface 
is based heavily on the font used in 



**A Yale Font of Their Own**
**Author: Brandon Jackson**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Spring 2012
the legibility of Bembo and the gravity 
and crisp lines of the De Aetna face, 
the Yale Typeface was the cleanest and 
most attractive of the three.
Most students don’t know that 
they can use the Yale Typeface, but 
awareness of its charm is growing 
on campus. Gambell has his own 
theory about why administrators have 
received it so well: it is something 
private that the members of the 
Yale community can all share among 
themselves. “It’s not as silly as a secret 
handshake, but it has a little bit of that 
cachet.” 
Gambell cheerfully reports that 
so far it doesn’t seem like anyone 
outside the university is attempting to 
use the font. 
“Wait—they’re not allowed to?” 
I asked.
“No, they’re not allowed to. 
They’d probably just get a letter from 
General Counsel saying ‘puh-lease.’”
Like Manutius centuries ago, the 
University is willing to prosecute in 
order to protect its license, although 
a letter from Yale’s lawyers is probably 
less potent than a Papal mandate. I’m 
already preparing myself for the day 
when I’m no longer allowed to use the 
Typeface, only several months ahead.
– Brandon Jackson


**Eagle Eyes**
**Author:  (Not specified)**

“I like to know the names of 
things,” David Heiser tells me, and 
his office proves it. The table where 
we sit is covered with piles of framed 
and labeled insects with a jewel-
like turquoise beetle at the very top. 
Behind him is an enormous, pastel-
colored model of a flower’s insides, 
which looks vaguely pornographic. 
And near my hand, the tip of a hairy 
leg is just visible through the crack 
in a pouch marked “Tarantula.” As 
Head of Education and Outreach at 
The hardest part, of course, is 
knowing what we’re seeing. Most 
students hardly know a hawk from a 
handsaw, let alone an ovenbird from a 
thrush. Just as van Arkel had to brush 
up on her galaxy types before joining 
the Galaxy Zoo project, we will need 
to review our bird identification. 
To start the learning process, the 
Peabody organizes bird walks to 
help beginners learn how to identify 
their sightings.  Heiser adds that we 
are currently sitting only a few steps 
away from the Peabody’s hall of 
Connecticut birds, which is a sort of 
“3-D field guide.”
The very next day, I tour that 
hall with Jim Sirch, Public Education 
Coordinator at the Peabody and one 
of the leaders of the museum’s bird 
walks. He appears out of place in 
the faint blue light of the exhibit, as 
though he would be more at home 
up to his waist in brush, or crouching 
on a riverbank. Walking from glass 
case to glass case, he points out the 
different plumages of warblers and 
the difference in size between the 
Cooper’s hawk and the sharp-shinned 
hawk. When I ask him about the red-
tailed hawk I had seen several times 
perched on the gargoyles of Harkness 
Tower, he uses the stuffed birds to 
show me that the juveniles have a 
stripy tail instead of the russet that 
gives the bird its English name. 
I am an avid birdwatcher, so I 
am interested in the details that Sirch 
points out: the number of wing-bars, 
the color of eye-rings. I have spent 
hours staring at far-off shorebirds, 
hoping to catch a glimpse of rarities. I 
have gotten up at the crack of dawn to 
watch geese take off from a flooded 
field. I love swamps. But I struggled 
to see the urgency of birdwatching 
around the quiet, paved Yale campus.
The Yale Office of Sustainability 
thinks differently. The citizen science 
program was the office’s idea, and the 
program is part of its 2010 strategic 
plan to make Yale greener. 
the Peabody Museum, Heiser, along 
with other Peabody employees and 
the Yale Office of Sustainability, leads 
an initiative to create a body of citizen 
scientists, laypeople who collect data 
and report it to professionals. The 
team behind this project hopes to 
harness the simple observational skills 
of Yale’s students, faculty, and staff 
to contribute to the evaluation of the 
University’s urban ecology. 
To many people, the term 
“citizen scientist” seems like an 
oxymoron. It’s easy to imagine citizen 
historians—historical societies are full 
of them. And self-proclaimed citizen 
philosophers are a dime a dozen. But 
citizen scientists? To take part in the 
scientific endeavor, you must need 
a degree, not to mention funding, a 
working knowledge of statistics, a 
command of jargon, and a lab—right?
Not necessarily. In 2007, Dutch 
schoolteacher and citizen scientist 
Hanny van Arkel discovered a green 
blot in the Leo Minor constellation. 
She had been spending her free 
time poring over images from the 
Sloan Digital Sky Survey as part of 
the Galaxy Zoo project which uses 
laypeople to help classify galaxies. 
This green spot didn’t match any of 
the categories van Arkel had learned 
to recognize—and it wasn’t only 
laypeople like her who were perplexed. 
Now known as Hanny’s Voorwerp 
(“object” in Dutch), the blot is as big 
as the Milky Way and contains a hole 
stretching over ten thousand light 
years. Astrophysicists are still trying to 
figure out what it is. 
      “You too can make this kind 
of discovery,” Heiser tells me and 
about thirty-five other volunteers 
gathered in the Peabody auditorium 
on March 26. Our task is simple. We 
are instructed to regularly walk a route 
around campus and make note of the 
birds we see. We will then enter our 
names, the species of birds we’ve 
seen, and the times and locations of 
our sightings into a database.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
6
The New Journal
“Where do the birds fit in? 
They’re an indicator for understanding 
land use,” said Julie Newman, the 
office’s director. The fluctuation in 
bird populations on campus can help 
us understand what Yale is doing right 
and what it’s doing wrong when it 
comes to New Haven’s urban ecology. 
Heiser refers to the information we 
will be collecting as “baseline data,” a 
large body of statistics that will allow 
the Peabody to look for anomalies. 
After all, you can’t know if something 
is wrong in the environment unless 
you know what’s normal.


Using 
citizen 
scientists 
to 
produce baseline data is nothing 
new. Thoreau meticulously observed 
the asters in his garden in Concord, 
Massachusetts, between 1851 and 
1858, and wrote down when each 
flower bloomed, noting changes 
each year. When a team of scientists 
discovered Thoreau’s unpublished 
records, they realized they were full 
of valuable baseline climate data—the 
timing of plant flowering is closely 
tied to temperature. In a February 
2012 article in the journal BioScience, 
this team showed that plants are now 
flowering ten days earlier in Concord 
than they were in Thoreau’s time. 
They used his data to suggest that the 
temperature in Concord increased by 
4.32 degrees Fahrenheit.


Aside 
from 
leading 
bird 
walks, 
Sirch 
is 
also 
organizing 
and participating in the Peabody’s 
FrogWatch program, which has citizen 
scientists collect baseline data on 
frog populations. You arrive at your 
designated wetland a half hour after 
sunset, wait for two minutes so that 
the frogs aren’t frightened by any noise 
you might have made, and then spend 
three minutes listening. You can hear 
the spring peeper’s chirp, “the three-
minute-long high trill of the American 
toad, the snore of the pickerel frog,” 
Sirch told me. The idea is that the frog 
watcher has some fun while helping 
scientists establish normal figures for 
local frog populations and habitat 
health. 


But “normal” can’t accurately 
describe a lot of ecological systems 
today. When Heiser asked if anyone 
had seen any spring warblers last 
year, a lady in the front row raised 
her hand. “Dead,” she said. “That 
itself is important information to 
know,” Heiser said. While there are 
many similarities between the hordes 
of self-trained naturalists of the 
nineteenth-century and the boom in 
citizen science today, the pressures of 
the environment have intensified. 


The university is “exploding 
campus with all these new buildings,” 
Julie Newman says. So, she poses, how 
can we make an argument for green 
space and prove that we need it? One 
argument could draw strong evidence 
from the large number of warblers 
that stop here on their migratory 
routes. Although Heiser insists that 
theirs is not an advocacy mission, he 
acknowledges that the research could 
have a great ecological impact. Many 
of these species can act as a campus 
bellwether, helping the university 
understand what it is doing to the 
ecosystems within which it is located. 


Besides 
informing 
the 
administration’s 
expansion 
effort, 
the citizen science research program 
has other benefits. It opens a door to 
experiencing wonder in the natural 
world. As E. O. Wilson wrote in his 
1984 book Biophilia:
To the extent that each person can 
feel like a naturalist, the old excitement of  
the untrammeled world will be regained. I 
offer this as a formula of  reenchantment to 
invigorate poetry and myth: mysterious and 
little known organisms live within walking 
distance of  where you sit. Splendor awaits in 
minute proportions.

Citizen science may work as a 
data-collecting tool, but it also builds 
connections between man and other 
species. And isn’t learning the name 
of the blackburnian warbler or a 
yellow-bellied sapsucker the first step 
to caring whether it lives or dies?



**Title: Apocalypse Now?**
**Author: Clare Randt**

Apocalypse Now?
A painting of a dark apocalyptic 
landscape, 
John 
Martin’s 
1835 
Destruction of  the Cities of  the Plain, hangs 
in Michael Coe’s East Rock living 
room. The Yale professor emeritus 
of anthropology, still sprightly in his 
eighties, blinked up at it. 
The 
bright-eyed, 
gray-haired 
professor pulled from one bookshelf 
an 1827 print of Paradise Lost illustrated 
with 
mezzotints. 
“You 
could buy these for a song back in 
the sixties,” he said. Images of the 
apocalypse recur in Coe’s life. “I 
went to a church school and I’ve read 
through the Bible twice, including 
the Book of Revelations,” he said. “I 
don’t believe any of it now, but that 
certainly influenced me.” He laughed, 
but then added, “The Maya probably 
thought in very similar ways.”
Coe was the first to suggest that 
the ancient Mesoamerican civilization 
had predicted that the world would 
end in 2012. His analysis ignited a 





--- Page 7 ---

7
Spring 2012
before the cycle begins again. This 
December 23 will mark the end of a 
single b’ak’tun, but not a piktun, she 
said. 
And, 
Maxwell 
added, 
some 
Mayan descendants who have revived 
their ancestors’ calendar will actually 
spend December 23 celebrating the 
end of the b’ak’tun. All of which raises 
the question: is fear of the Mayan 
Apocalypse even Mayan at all—or is 
it American?
Books, movies, and late-night 
television have all capitalized on the 
Mayan Apocalypse. “First, the Mayan 
calendar predicted it. Now, science has 
confirmed it. But we never imagined 
it could really happen,” ran the tagline 
for the Sony/Columbia movie 2012 
(released in 2009), which grossed 
almost $800 million worldwide. The 
film was inspired by British writer 
Graham Hancock’s 1995 book The 
Fingerprints of  the Gods, which draws on 
ancient Mayan myth and astronomy to 
predict a coming global environmental 
catastrophe. The Fingerprints of  the Gods 
has been translated into twenty-seven 
languages and has sold about three 
continuing debate in academic circles 
and provided popular culture with a 
new fixation. In his seminal book The 
Maya, published in 1966, he directed 
attention to Monument 6, a stone in 
Tortuguero, Mexico, whose face is 
marked with a Mayan noun, a verb, 
a subject, and a date. Monument 
6 describes the prophecy and its 
appointed date of fulfillment—Dec. 
23, 2012.
The noun on Monument 6 is the 
name of a god. The deity also appears 
on a vase that depicts all the Mayan 
gods meeting in darkness at the 
creation of the current world, which 
makes Coe think it is has something to 
do with the end of the world. “I think 
this god is associated with cataclysm,” 
he says. Though the verb isn’t entirely 
legible, Coe maintains that it translates 
to “will descend.” 
 “The Mayans would have been 
worried!” Coe said, smiling earnestly. 
The Mayans believed that the world 
had been created and destroyed 
multiple times. Violent Mayan myths 
of creation and destruction tell how 
past worlds have been destroyed by 
giant jaguars, wind, fire, and flood. 
Their calendar starts on Aug. 13, 3114 
B.C.E., when, according to Mayan 
tradition, this world was first created. 
Since then, twelve cycles of roughly 
four hundred years, or b’ak’tuns, have 
passed. December 23 is the final day 
of the thirteenth and current b’ak’tun.
But 
Coe’s 
reading 
of 
the 
monument 
is 
not 
universally 
accepted by his fellow academic 
Mayanists. 
Gerardo 
Aldana, 
an 
associate professor at University of 
California, Santa Barbara, who studies 
Mayan 
hieroglyphic 
history 
and 
Mesoamerican art, said that he doesn’t 
believe the Mayans thought the end 
of every thirteenth b’ak’tun would be 
a cataclysmic event. He agreed with 
Judith Maxwell, an anthropologist 
at Tulane University, who said that 
twenty b’ak’tuns—which constitute 
a piktun, a larger cycle—must pass 
Clare Randt
million copies worldwide. The idea 
that 2012 might spell doom has found 
a home in the popular American 
consciousness.  
Coe points out that Americans 
have long been preoccupied with the 
apocalypse. Themes of mass death 
and earthly destruction can be found 
in the theology of religious sects 
like the Millerites, who eventually 
became the Seventh Day Adventists, 
and events like 2011’s “rapture 
hour,” when an American Christian 
radio host’s end-of-world prediction 
went viral. Apocalypse anxieties also 
underlined Cold War nuclear threats 
and fears of global environmental 
collapse. “I think it’s in the American 
mind,” Coe said. 
If he is right, then the debate 
over this December 23 does not say as 
much about Mayan culture as it does 
about our own.
– Caroline Durlacher


**Title: Crossing Streams**
**Author: Clare Randt**
**Page number(s): 8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As I walked through Dwight, a 
largely residential neighborhood west 
of downtown New Haven, I saw trash 
and recycling bins crammed into alleys 
between buildings and, occasionally, 
waiting out at the curb. Pickup for 
most residents was still two days away, 
but many of the bins were already 
brimming. 


The recycling waiting inside 
those bins, or toters, has recently 
become a major focus for the city in 
recent years. In late 2009, the Board 
of Aldermen authorized a new single 
stream recycling policy that the Office 
of Sustainability, partly established 
to create this policy, implemented 
citywide by the end of last year. Single 
stream recycling means that residents 
no longer need to sort their items into 
glass, paper, and plastic. Instead, the 
city’s Department of Public Works 
picks up the mixed recyclables and 
exports them to Willimantic Waste 
in Norwich, Connecticut, where they 
are processed by a machine and their 
remains bundled into large bales to be 
resold. 


The city distributed blue ninety-
six-gallon toters for recyclables and 
brown forty-eight-gallon ones for 
trash to every home in New Haven, 
free of charge. Most of the toters that 
I saw along the streets and alleyways 
of Dwight seemed to have items 
sorted properly -- recyclables in the 
blue and trash in the brown.
Although 
data 
shows 
that 
recycling rates have tripled overall, 
and in every neighborhood, not all 
districts recycle equally. Currently, 
most neighborhoods report rates 
between 21 and 28 percent, and 
there is significant room for growth. 
Areas such as Dwight which haven’t 
consistently recycled in the past 
have shown limited increases since 
the policy has been implemented, 
especially compared to areas like East 
Rock with historically higher recycling 
rates. Despite the city’s efforts, which 
include 
new 
toters, 
educational 
campaigns, 
and 
mobilization 
of 
community 
management 
teams, 
certain neighborhoods still lag behind. 


Why are some residents so 
resistant? It seems that the city could 
hardly make it easier to recycle: its bins 
are bigger, its instructions clearer, and, 
more importantly, the process has been 
drastically simplified. But there’s only 
so much that the city can accomplish 
through policy. An important factor 
seems to be the example of other 
residents; if residents recycle, it’s likely 
their neighbors will too.


To Christine Tang, director of 
New Haven’s Office of Sustainability, 
the increase in recycling rates isn’t 
enough. “Recycling isn’t optional,” 
said Tang. “It’s a state law and it’s 
a requirement in the city of New 
Haven.” Tang said that neighborhoods 
with higher rates of rental occupancy 
and greater population density usually 
have lower recycling rates, though 
she was quick to note that correlation 
does not imply causation. 
Neighborhoods with higher rates 
of turnover also have lower recycling 
rates, said Justin Elicker, Ward 10 
alderman and chair of the City 
Services and Environmental Policy 
committee. Immediately following 
the distribution of new bins, recycling 
rates increased significantly, he said. 
But as educational campaigns were 
completed, the message didn’t get 
out to people who had moved, which 
was a particular problem in the 
neighborhoods with more turnover. 
To meet the city’s ambitious recycling 
goals—30 percent of household waste 
recycled by the end of 2012 and 58 
percent by 2020—all neighborhoods 
need to participate.
Tang 
has 
considered 
implementing certain “enforcement 
mechanisms,” although no decisions 
have been made. Though the Office of 
Sustainability would rather maintain a 
friendly relationship with city residents 
than apply the proverbial big stick in 
dealing with “serial noncompliers,” 
said 
fines, 
though 
unpopular, could be an option. 



**Pulling Back the Curtain**
**Author: Julia Calagiovanni**
**Page number(s): 9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Spring 2012
Pulling Back the 
Curtain
Department of Public Works, which 
directly handles recycling and trash 
pickup, sometimes refuses to pick up 
trash “contaminated” with recyclables. 
But Tang is also looking ahead. 
Eventually, the office hopes to create a 
bulk citywide composting program, a 
goal even more ambitious than raising 
recycling rates. Currently, no facility 
exists in Connecticut to handle bulk 
composting, but the more daunting 
task is getting residents on board. 


Progress still needs to be made 
in the recycling program. While 
the service’s rates have risen, many 
residents didn’t seem aware of the 
single stream policy, much less that 
compliance was a law. Come garbage 
pick-up day, some will put out both 
of their toters, recyclables and trash 
waiting separately. But most won’t. In 
neighborhoods like Dwight, the city’s 
encouragement alone may not be 
enough to effect the change it wants 
to see.
– Julia Calagiovanni


**The Undergraduate Organizing Committee: A Legacy of Activism**
**Author: Not specified**

It’s the dead of night. Most of 
Yale is fast asleep. A handful of stu­
dents sneak around, using chalk and 
fliers to “rename” a few residential 
colleges. They put up signs on Jona­
than Edwards College that read “Titus 
X College,” renaming the seventy-six 
year old college after one of Edwards’ 
slaves. On Cross Campus, they chalk 
the phrase “Emancipate Yale.” Stu­
dents wake up to these messages the 
next morning, more confused than 
angry. Who took the time and energy 
to do this? And why?


Founded in 2002, the Undergrad­
uate Organizing Committee was one 
of the most influential student activ­
ist groups on campus for most of the 
past decade. With a stated mission to 
fight for racial, social, and economic 
justice in Yale and New Haven, the 
group frequently made campus head­
lines, whether for its 2009 protest of 
the names of some of the residential 
colleges or for its less recent 2005 sit-
ins in the Office of Undergraduate 
Admissions to protest financial aid 
policies, which led to financial aid re­
form. Perhaps the group’s most note­
worthy activity was its 2008 sit-in in 
Yale’s Investments Office to protest 
the University’s investment in HEI 
Hotels & Resorts, a company that 
allegedly supported poor working 
conditions. Ben Crosby ’13, a former 
UOC member who currently serves 
as co-chair of Ward 1 in New Haven, 
said that UOC drove the campaign 
that led Yale to divest from HEI. “It 
played a significant role. Or certainly 
the UOC pressure as part of a broader 
student movement in colleges across 
the country.”


Despite its success, the UOC 
deliberately remained small and con­
cealed over the years. “The UOC 
often made a strategic choice during 
campaigns to put the issue out front 
rather than the organization,” said 
Mac Herring ’12, an active member 
for three years starting in the fall of 
2008. “The focus was to make change, 
not to recruit students.” Herring ex­
plained that a group challenging Yale 
on such important issues couldn’t af­
ford to be self-aggrandizing. But the 
UOC’s limited membership and lack 
of visibility also contributed to its 
reputation as a radical, self-righteous 
group. After nearly a decade of activ­
ism, the UOC gradually dissolved in 
the fall of 2011. Why did a group so 
confident in its goals and methods 
come to such a sudden end? Yale’s his­
tory with student activism may help il­
luminate the answer.


History professor Jay Gitlin ’71 
witnessed the heyday of New Ha­
ven political protests during his junior 
year, when a variety of New Haven 
trials involving members of the Black 
Panthers brought radicals and liberals 
from across the country to campus. 
Gitlin called the atmosphere “chaot­
ic,” “bizarre,” and “tumultuous,” and 
he was struck by the visible nature of 
the protest. “You would see people 
hang banners with some sort of po­
litical content,” he said. “Political un­
rest was more public.” This meant that 
students were generally more knowl­
edgeable about the important issues, 
even if they weren’t necessarily par­
ticipating in the protests.


Both Gitlin and another history 
professor, Gaddis Smith ’54, have 
watched open political protest disap­
pear from the undergraduate commu­
nity. Smith recalls a sit-in during the 
first couple of years of the Iraq War, 
in which a panel of teachers and about 
forty students occupied the second 
floor of the Hall of Graduate Stud­
ies to protest the war. When Smith 
asked how many of the protestors 
were undergraduates, only two raised 
their hands. “My general impression 
was that Yale undergraduates were not 
as politically attuned or ready to take 
action as they had been in the sixties, 
seventies, eighties, even in the nine­
ties,” he said.


The UOC dissolved because stu­
dents wanted to reverse this trend and 
make student activism visible once 
again. During the aldermanic elections 
last fall, more than fifty students—
some who were longtime members of 
UOC and others who were involved in 
political activism for the first time—
began canvassing and doing campaign 
work for Sarah Eidelson ’12, a UOC 
member who shared the group’s inter­
est in labor reform. The canvassing ef­
forts contributed to bringing a record 
number of students to the polls in the 
Ward 1 aldermanic race and propelled 
Eidelson to victory. Students were 
more excited and informed than Ei­
delson’s team expected, Herring said.


After members of the UOC saw 
the power of broader participation, 
it no longer made sense for them to 


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Zachary Schloss**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
The New Journal
members, canvassers from the fall 
elections, and students without a con­
nection to either. 
“Having an insular group is the 
absolute last thing that we want,” 
SUN member Yoni Greenwood ’15 
said.
SUN has similar goals to UOC 
but aims to achieve them by making 
political activism a more visible com­
ponent of Yale life. SUN’s efforts 
thus far have focused on recruiting 
new students, publicizing various local 
marches and protests, and surveying 
students to learn their stances on vari­
ous issues relevant to Yale and New 
Haven life.  
“It is a new day all across the 
city,” SUN member Sarah Cox ’14 
said. “And I think it’s a new day for 
students in the way we’re involved on 
campus and in the city.”
Or, if you believe Gitlin and 
Smith, perhaps it’s a nod to an older 
time.
– Zachary Schloss
Clare Randt
fight for change as a small, insular 
group—especially with evidence of 
so many others interested in joining 
the cause. “The election brought a lot 
of people together from all parts of 
campus,” Eidelson said. “It left many 
of them wanting to build something 
bigger than either the campaign or the 
UOC.”
Students Unite Now formed af­
ter the dissolution of the UOC in 
early 2012, and includes former UOC 


**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 12**

12
Brianne Bowen
WE STARTED  



**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Vlad Chituc**
**Page number(s): 13**

A small band of eccentric academics 
tries to use the methods of cognitive 
science to address questions of classical 
philosophy—are they crazy, or just 
cutting edge?


**Title: THE FIRE**
**Author: Not specified**

(No further content provided on page 13 for this title)



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
14
The New Journal
psychological relevance, but Knobe 
first published it in a philosophical 
journal. Knobe is an associate 
professor of both philosophy and 
cognitive science at Yale University, 
and he helped found a movement 
that is blurring the lines between 
philosophy and psychology. This 
new approach, called experimental 
philosophy, aims to apply the practical 
tools and findings of the cognitive 
sciences to philosophical problems. 
At first, the term doesn’t make 
sense: a philosopher is supposed to 
ponder deep truths in an armchair, 
not administer studies in a lab coat, 
clipboard in hand. But experimental 
philosophers claim to follow a deeper 
philosophical tradition that predates 
twentieth century philosophy. Plato 
hypothesized on the structure of 
the mind, Hume and Adam Smith 
considered moral judgments and 
empathy, and Descartes tried to find 
the seat of the soul (he settled on 
the pineal gland, a small endocrine-
secreting organ in the center of the 
brain). But the questions philosophers 
ask now tend to be more abstract: 
What does it mean for something 
to mean something? Is a liquid that 
looks and tastes just like water but 
has a different chemical structure still 
water? Are actions good because of 
their consequences or the kind 
of action they are? 

Experimental philosophers 
want to return to the questions 
that 
attracted 
philosophers 
centuries ago, but with new 
tools informed by the cognitive 
sciences. They investigate topics 
such as the way the mind works 
and how morality, rationality, 
and emotion interact, using 
techniques ranging from fMRI 
scans to paper and pencil 
surveys.

I first heard of experimental 
philosophy roughly two years 
ago as a sophomore psychology 
major. I had just grown out of 
thinking of philosophy as its 
worst stereotype: speculative 
nonsense that engages little, if 
at all, with reality. 

My advisor suggested that 
I take a class called “Philosophy 
and Science of Human Nature,” 
taught by Knobe at the time. In each 
lecture, we addressed readings in 
classical philosophy by authors like 
Plato, Schopenhauer, and Marx, then 
turned to modern scientific research, 
often from the last decade, that 
addressed the same questions.

The class left me conflicted. 
Though it kindled my personal interest 


J
oshua Knobe isn’t forty yet, 
but he already has a discovery 
named after him. Imagine that 
a chairman of a large company is 
deciding whether or not to implement 
a new—and very lucrative—green 
initiative. The chairman thinks about it 
for a minute and says, “I actually don’t 
care about the environment at all. I 
just want to make as much money as 
I can.” He implements the policy, the 
air gets cleaner, and the chairman gets 
a new house in the Hamptons. 
Would you say he intentionally 
helped the environment? If 
you’re like most of Joshua 
Knobe’s subjects, you answered 
no, any environmentally friendly 
by-product was coincidental, not 
intentional. In his 2003 survey, 
only 23 percent  of Knobe’s 
subjects answered yes.

Now consider a slightly 
different scenario. This time, 
the program would harm the 
environment. All other factors 
are constant. The chairman 
still doesn’t care about the 
environment, only wants money, 
and goes ahead with the policy. 
The environment was harmed, 
but did he harm it intentionally? 
This time, you probably said, 
along with 82 percent of 
Knobe’s 
subjects, 
the 
chairman did intentionally harm 
the environment. 
The only difference is here is 
morality. But should a decision’s ethical 
status have nothing to do with whether 
its side-effects were intentionally 
produced? The difference between 
the 82 and 23 percent is sometimes 
called the side-effect-effect, or the 
Knobe effect. 
Clearly this finding has some 
“I want to 
know the way 
the fucking 
mind works,” 
Mandelbaum 
told me.



**Title: Experimental Philosophy at Yale**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Spring 2012
in philosophy, I still doubted whether 
experimental 
philosophy 
could 
meaningfully be called philosophy 
at all. Experimental philosophers 
like Knobe argue that keeping big 
questions out of labs and away from 
data confines the discipline to a narrow 
space. The debate about experimental 
philosophy deals with these questions: 
what is philosophy, what should it be, 
and who are these people who think 
they can change it?


I 
made my way into a dimly lit 
seminar room, choosing a seat out 
of the way and in the corner. I had 
come to visit Knobe’s lab meeting, and 
I was late. A graduate student with a 
faint southern drawl was presenting at 
the front of the room. Someone from 
the back called out a suggestion about 
research methods, another disagreed, 
and the discussion grew somewhat 
heated before Knobe calmed them 
down, laughing. 
“Friends, I’m afraid we must 
move on,” he said soothingly. His 
voice was high-pitched and fluid, and 
seemed to invite me along to discover 
deep truths along with him. Knobe’s 
hair is dark and shaggy, and he wore a 
striped gray t-shirt with faded brown 
corduroy pants.


As the lab meeting came to a 
close, I approached Knobe, hoping 
to hear more about experimental 
philosophy and its place at Yale. 
“Sure.” he said. “Do you want to grab 
a burrito?” I did. I was starving, and I 
love burritos. 


If experimental philosophy is 
a revolution, then it’s a “very mild-
mannered” one, Knobe assured me 
as we ate at Moe’s Southwest Grill 
on Whitney Avenue (his choice). 
I find it hard to imagine Knobe 
as a revolutionary but, then again, 
the symbol of his movement is a 
flaming armchair. It serves as an 
omen, suggesting that neuroscience 
and psychology could replace the 
introspection in answering questions 
about human nature. 


In 
2006, 
Slate 
magazine 
profiled recent work in experimental 
philosophy. The article went largely 
unnoticed by the average reader, but 
it caused some controversy in the 
world of academic philosophy. David 
Velleman, a philosopher at New York 
University, responded in a blog post, 
arguing that experimental philosophy 
has no bearing on any philosophical 
problems. Other philosophers rushed 
to defend Knobe and his colleagues, 
and the sudden attention led Oxford 
University Press to approach the Yale 
professor in a matter of days, asking 
him to co-edit a volume of research 
in the field. “A bunch of people at the 
same time were doing the same kind 
of thing,” he explained. “There was 
this convergence.” 


Knobe came to Yale when 
a faculty position opened in the 
cognitive science program, which 
proved particularly well-suited to 
Knobe’s interdisciplinary work. Knobe 
has written papers on varied topics, 
including free will and cosmology, and 
a recent paper he co-authored with 
Yale psychologist Paul Bloom explored 
how people’s clothes influence what 
we think about their capability to feel 
pain or plan ahead. If it weren’t for 
Knobe’s hiring, Yale’s small band of 
experimental philosophers might not 
exist today, and certainly wouldn’t 
exist in its current capacity. 


After a brief stint travelling 
through Europe to translate “really 
terrible” Russian poetry, Jonathan 
Phillips, a graduate student pursuing 
a joint PhD in psychology and 
philosophy followed Knobe to Yale, 
working first as the professor’s lab 
manager, then as his graduate student.  
Phillips studied philosophy at 
the University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill when Knobe was still a 
professor there. He had begun to feel 
disillusioned with modern philosophy 
(“I thought, ‘This is just all bullshit’”), 
and so was relieved to discover that 
Knobe shared some of his concerns. 
“I had already actually started the 
process to switch to take extra time 
in college to go to medical school—
basically to do something useful with 
my life,” he said, laughing. Knobe 
convinced him to pursue experimental 
philosophy instead. 


Eric Mandelbaum, a postdoctoral 
fellow and lecturer in Yale’s philosophy 
department, also moved with Knobe 
from Chapel Hill to Yale. Though 
Mandelbaum 
considers 
himself 
more of a theoretical psychologist 
than an experimental philosopher, he 
shares an interest in the fundamental 
questions of human nature. 
“I want to know the way the 
fucking mind works,” Mandelbaum 
told me in the basement of Anna 
Liffey’s, in between sips of Guinness. 
He had invited me to have drinks after 
one of Knobe’s lab meetings.


Mandelbaum wore a collared 
shirt under a tight black hoodie, and 
he glowed with what I think of as 
the endearing and somehow earnest 
cynicism of an artist. He was, indeed, 
a writer and used to play music. His 
face lit red every so often as the LED 
at the end of his electronic cigarette 
flared up, and he mentioned that he’d 
recently quit smoking after seventeen 
years. I laughed, and mentioned 



**The New Journal**
**Author: Vlad Chituc**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
16
The New Journal
that he was either way older than he 
looked, or he started smoking when 
he was a baby. “A little bit of both,” 
he replied, grinning. I imagined him as 
a skinny-jeaned fifteen year-old with 
shaggy hair, taking a smoke break 
from band practice behind his friend’s 
garage. It seemed plausible.

For a brief period, Mandelbaum 
had also pursued a PhD in psychology, 
but he found that philosophy provided 
him more time and freedom to pursue 
his interests, as he no longer needed 
to spend his time collecting data. 
“Anyone can collect the data,” he told 
me, grinning some more.

As a waitress took Mandelbaum’s 
order, he mentioned that as a graduate 
student in the department where 
Knobe had his first job, he was in 
a privileged position to observe 
Knobe’s career. Mandelbaum and 
another graduate student had rallied 
to get him hired at Chapel Hill. The 
academics have since become friends.

“When his book came out, he 
suckered me into opening for his wife 
in a split indie rock/academic talk 
setting,” Mandelbaum said. Knobe’s 
wife, 
an 
indie 
singer-songwriter, 
played a set, and Mandelbaum, he 
admitted, “got a little bit tipsy and 
gave a talk called ‘Why is everyone 
such an asshole?’” 

Yale’s community of experimental 
philosophers is somewhat unique. 
Outside 
of 
Harvard, 
where 
Mandelbaum will work next year, 
and a handful of smaller philosophy 
programs such as City University 
of New York and the University of 
Arizona, 
philosophy 
departments 
with an interest in cognitive sciences 
are few and far between. “In my 
depressed moods, it makes me just 
wanna go open a record store,” 


17
Spring 2012
TNJ
Vlad Chituc is a senior in 
Timothy Dwight College.
Mandelbaum said, laughing. But he 
noted that cognitive science centers 
were beginning to be more common 
in Europe. “Sad to think that that 
might be where the future is, because 
the structures here are just not set 
up to move easily.” It seems that not 
many universities may be open to 
philosophical revolutions.

N
ot everyone at Yale is convinced 
that experimental philosophy 
can provide answers to the eternal 
questions 
philosophy. 
Clark 
Professor 
Philosophy 
Shelly 
Kagan expressed skepticism that 
experimental philosophy would be 
any more successful than previous, 
ultimately 
failed 
philosophical 
revolutions. Yet Kagan embraced the 
project nonetheless. It’s difficult to 
tell in advance which philosophical 
projects will pay off. 

“Let a thousand flowers bloom,” 
Kagan told me. 

Whether or not experimental 
makes 
significant 
contributions to the philosophical 
canon, Kagan sees it at as relevant for 
the cognitive sciences. “I’m personally 
inclined to think that this stuff is 
primarily a subfield of psychology,” he 
added. And I realized that, consciously 
or not, I had also been treating the 
research coming from experimental 
philosophy as part of psychology. 

I found myself still in a strange 
place—I was interested in philosophy 
the way Kagan and other modern 
philosophers understood it, but also 
as Knobe and other experimental 
philosophers understood it. I had 
trouble clearly locating my interests in 
philosophy or psychology, and I still 
couldn’t precisely define philosophy. 
But perhaps it didn’t and doesn’t really 
matter. Knobe told me, “I think it 
would be great if we could just go after 
questions with everything we can, and 
not worry about distinctions.” I think 
he’s right.

A few weeks later I sat in a leather 
sofa across from Professor Bloom, 
whose psychological research touches 
on philosophical issues. Floor-to-
ceiling bookshelves peppered with a 
few bits of cognitive esoterica stood 
behind us. His arm swung casually 
over the edge of his chair while a 
colorful and rectangular clay mug 
stood on the floor at the other side of 
the room. 

Bloom 
represents 
the 
psychologist who deals in deep 
questions of human nature without 
being too concerned about calling it 
philosophy. He was a great admirer of 
thinkers like David Hume and Adam 
Smith and sees philosophers like 
Knobe as following in their footsteps. 
Sitting up in his chair and smiling, 
Bloom added, “If Ada­m Smith was 
around today he’d have a lab.” He 
seemed clearly delighted by the idea, 
and I think I was, too.


**Making Cents of Space**
**Author: Benjamin Mueller**
**Page number(s): 18**

18
T
he Peru that Yale librarian 
Daniel Mugaburu left with 
his family at age thirteen was 
a broken country. On August 8, 1990, 
the night before his departure, the 
price of gasoline had risen by 3,000 
percent. The highway into Lima, 
once bustling with street vendors 
and microbuses from the seventies, 
was lined with mounds of rotting 
garbage. Terrorist bombings had 
forced Mugaburu to do his homework 
by candlelight for weeks at a time. But 
through the chaos, Mugaburu had 
always understood his city. Sitting on 
the back of his father’s motorcycle 
rushing over dirt roads as a child, 
Mugaburu pointed out the way to his 
father, every street corner familiar to 
him.

That familiarity changed when 
Mugaburu landed in the US. “I was 
stunned by the immensity of lights!” 
he later wrote in a letter to a friend. 
“Automatic 
doors? 
Ridiculous. 
Electric 
escalators? 
Holy 
shit!!!” 
Mugaburu’s new home in Hartford, 
Connecticut, was a strange land where 
classmates dumped heaps of food in 
the trash and storefronts kept their 
doors closed even when they were 
open.

Mugaburu started drawing maps 
by hand in order to understand his 
new home. He sketched outlines of 
the United States, searching for the 
home state he could barely pronounce. 
“Mapping was a way to familiarize 
myself 
with 
my 
whereabouts,” 
Mugaburu recalled. “It was about 
finding whether I belong here or not.” 
Mugaburu drew the streets that others 
only walked. When he could afford it, 
he went to a local convenience store 
and bought a professional map to 
Making Cents of Space
              SNAPSHOT
Google Map Maker provides mappers with the tools to chart their own 
communities, but the corporation’s restrictive policies may limit the scope 
of these efforts.



**Title: Mapping the World**
**Author: Benjamin Mueller**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19
Spring 2012
check his work.
Mugaburu’s 
mapping 
project 
gained a global platform when 
Google released a program called 
Map Maker in 2008. Google Map 
Maker is an editing tool that allows 
ordinary people to shape, revise, 
and detail public maps of their 
communities online. Citizen mappers 
have put countries like Kazakhstan 
and Romania on the map and have 
kept maps of US cities current using 
satellite imagery, local knowledge, and 
GPS devices. With their help, Google 
Maps has become the most popular 
internet map, garnering 71 percent of 
online US map traffic in February and 
over two hundred million installations 
on mobile phones worldwide.


But as surely as Google has torn 
down the old hierarchy in mapping, 
it has built up a new one, restricting 
access to its data, allowing politics to 
influence its choices, and using free 
labor to turn a profit. Google has left 
behind a movement of citizen mappers 
eager to chart their communities but 
fearful that the spirit of independent 
cartography will be corrupted.


When Mugaburu first took stock 
of Peru’s status on Google Maps in 
2008, he was dismayed by what he 
saw. “There were only a couple of 
cities and they were only half done.” 
Armed with his local knowledge of 
Lima, satellite images, and college 
credits in Geographic Information 
Systems, Mugaburu intended to equip 
Peruvians with the geographic data 
he’d thirsted for himself in Hartford. 
He wanted to put Peru on the map.


Mugaburu 
was 
drawn 
in 
particular to a blank spot that he 
knew to be Pachacutec, a slum of 
200,000 residents north of Lima 
that the government refused to 
recognize. Peru didn’t have the money 
or political will to expend resources 
on Pachacutec’s displaced people, 
so it left the slum off of maps. The 
map’s blankness, in turn, justified the 
government’s assertion that there was 
no official settlement in Pachacutec. 
The result was a wasteland of a city 
with no running water, no electricity, 
no roads, and no health services.


Using Map Maker, Mugaburu 
drew the shoreline bordering the slum 
and all the roads that ran through it. 
When his edits were added to Google 
Maps, people in Pachacutec noticed 
and added street names, schools, 
hospitals, and a technical college. 
Now, Mugaburu said, “in the event 
of a disaster emergency personnel can 
get to places.” But maps have more 
than practical power, he explained. 
“We’re giving people who live in 
shantytowns some sense of place.” 
In his excitement, Mugaburu’s accent 
became more pronounced. He spoke 
for Pachacutec’s citizens: “Yes, this is 
where we are. We are on the map. This 
is where my business is. Come visit, 
just follow the driving directions.” 
When he’s not working at Yale’s 
Sterling Memorial Library, Mugaburu 
now travels to Google conferences 
to speak about mapping as a Google 
Map Maker Advocate.


Mappers like Mugaburu from 
around the world have been charting 
their 
hometowns, 
working 
to 
empower communities often lacking 
a common geographic currency. 
Kyril Negoda, who has made over 
twenty thousand edits on Map Maker, 
grew up in Karaganda, Kazakhstan, 
before moving to Minnesota at age 
fifteen. Karaganda, a mining town 
that once generated energy for much 
of the Soviet Union, withered during 
Negoda’s youth as energy technology 
changed and jobs vanished. As a 
boy, Negoda was a winner of the 
Kazakhstani 
State 
Olympics 
geography, and he watched with a 
cartographer’s eye as population 
loss reshaped the town’s physical 
landscape. But no records were made. 
“Kazakhstan was going through all the 
political and economic changes after 
the Soviet Union. The importance of 
mapping fell by the wayside,” Negoda 
said. A town struggling to adapt to 
changing economic and demographic 
realities still relied on maps from the 
Soviet era to get around.


“I wanted to capture that 
changing landscape in my town,” 
Negoda explained. Giving people 
public access to their geographic 
data changed the way they related to 
their community. They took out their 
smart phones and traced Karaganda 
on Google Maps. When Negoda 
made a mistake, they logged into 
Map Maker themselves and fixed it. 
Karaganda was now known to the 
world—or at least could become 
known—and the investment that 
Negoda first made in his hometown 
“trickled down from top to bottom.” 
Karaganda’s cartographic presence 
also helped its business community 
recruit customers and bring back 
some of the jobs lost during Negoda’s 
youth. Mapped businesses are each 
assigned short Google Maps pages, 
where users can rate and comment 
on them, encouraging more hits and 
more customers, Negoda explained. 
Negoda and Map Maker have helped 
give Karagandans a voice in remaking 
their community.


Anas 
Qtiesh 
ushered 
his 
hometown of As Suwayda, Syria, 
through a similar transition. Before 
Qtiesh took to Map Maker, locals 
relied on their own memory for 
direction, streets were unnamed, and 
the official map was oriented with 
North to the left. State censorship 
kept citizens from acquiring the 
tools they needed to formalize their 
geography; Syria banned GPS devices, 
satellite images, and smart phones. 
“It’s a policy of keeping people in the 
dark,” said Qtiesh, who now blogs 
and maps from San Francisco. For 
Qtiesh, mapping is a tool of resistance 
against an apathy that impairs people’s 
personal sense of place and their 
commitment to political change. 
“Providing maps is a way of fighting 
back against that,” Qtiesh said. “It’s 
about people finding their place in a 
country.”


But the Google Map Maker 
revolution goes further. Mapping in all 
times and all places has given people 
tools to understand their space. But for 
the first time ordinary people, rather 
than governments or corporations, 
are drawing the lines. They’ll draw 
the lines not to snatch territory from 
neighboring states or to make a profit 
but simply because people deserve to 
know their way around. As Mugaburu 
puts it: “It can shift the power 
balance. It’s done by us, not by big 
governments. We know our countries 
best, our neighborhoods, and we have 
the power to change that.”


Google Map Maker claims to 
be part of a democratic revolution 
in how information gets produced. 
When communities generate the 
knowledge, communities can ensure 
that corporate or political interests 
don’t shape the way they get mapped. 
As Google said in a 2011 press release, 
“You know your neighborhood or 
hometown best, and with Google 
Map Maker you can ensure the places 
you care about are richly represented 
on the map.” Map Maker positions 
itself as a project by citizens, for 
citizens, which has garnered positive 
responses. In January 2012, the World 
Bank announced it would begin a 
partnership with Map Maker in its 
grassroots endeavor. Google may 
be a profit-seeking corporation, but 
volunteer mappers put in hundreds 
of hours of unpaid labor because 
they want to be part of a movement 
overturning the traditional hierarchy 
in mapping. 


However, 
the 
may 
be less democratic than it seems. 
Rhetorically, Map Maker latches on 
to the Wikipedia model of bottom-
up knowledge production. In practice, 
Bill Rankin, professor of history of 
cartography at Yale, says Map Maker 
falls short of that vision. “It’s more 
like last.fm and Amazon where people 
provide information to a company 
and they don’t have a voice in how 
it gets used,” he said. “It’s less about 
people coming together to determine 
how their knowledge will be used and 
more about people providing free 
labor to Google.” 


Negoda, who spent five hundred 
unpaid hours over two years mapping 
Kazakhstan, feels betrayed by the 
restrictions Google places around 
its mapping data. “Google needs to 
recognize its place as a partner to 
the community and become a good 
steward of the geographic treasure 
it is entrusted with. Until then, Map 
Maker represents little more than an 
elaborate front in a grand extortion 
scheme.” Earlier this year, Negoda 
dropped his affiliation with Google in 
protest over its policies.


Even 
Mugaburu, 
at 
first 
unerringly positive, acknowledged 
that cracks were beginning to form 
in his loyalty. “I started mapping in 
the good faith that Google will do 
the right thing. I don’t know other 
people’s threshold for good and 
ethical conduct, but they’re getting 
close to my threshold.”


When first joining Map Maker, 
mappers must hand over all legal 
claims to the data they will produce. 
Mappers can’t participate in decisions 
about how the data is used, receive no 
guarantees that it will live on should 
something happen to Google Maps, 
and surrender the right to share the 
data outside of Map Maker. Negoda 
and Mugaburu give over their data, 
trusting that Google will handle it 
in the best interests of the mapping 
community. 


Rather than make freely available 
Above are three maps of Gaza: one by Google (far left), one by the wiki alternative, 
Open Street Maps (middle), and a Google satellite image of the region (far right).


20
The New Journal


21
the data it freely acquired, Google 
places strict limits around the use of 
its mapping data. OpenStreetMap, an 
alternative to Map Maker that has a 
weaker global presence but is growing 
in popularity, allows people to use its 
data for whatever purpose and on 
whatever platform they see fit. Google, 
on the other hand, restricts access to 
its data in order to maximize profits. 
Under the Google Map Maker License 
Agreement, mappers are prohibited 
from using non-profit open source 
tools, like OpenStreetMap, to work 
with data introduced on Map Maker, 
killing the possibility of collaboration 
in what is billed as a collective, citizen-
centered project. Another stipulation 
in the License Agreement prevents 
for-profit groups from displaying 
Map Maker data, jeopardizing Google 
Maps’ capacity to build small business 
in developing nations.


Mappers like Mugaburu are 
willing to accept these limitations so 
long as Google doesn’t ask customers 
to pay high prices for the product 
they’ve helped produce for free. But 
prices for Google Maps services are 
rising. In October of 2011, Google 
announced that independent web 
developers whose sites feature Google 
Maps must pay four dollars for every 
thousand Maps views over twenty 
five thousand. Though larger Web 
sites have always been subject to fees, 
the price hikes prompted Apple and 
FourSquare, a social media service, 
to switch from Google Maps to 
OpenStreetMap for parts of their 
applications. Negoda may sound 
like a man with a grudge when he 
calls Map Maker a “grand extortion 
scheme.” But as long as Google 
continues to recruit free labor under 
the banner of bottom-up citizen 
mapping, it can’t guard its data for 
ever-steeper profits without mappers 
and viewers questioning its motives. 
Representatives from Google did 
not respond to multiple requests for 
comment on its pricing and other 
policies.


With final decision-making power 
concentrated in a group of executives, 
dubbed the “Google gods” by 
Mugaburu, data for politically sensitive 
locations is often ignored. Active edits 
to the map of Cyprus were suppressed 
and the country was left blank because 
Google feared offending the Turks 
or Greeks with their use of one 
language over the other. Map Maker 
has closed editing in Gaza, where 
people lack access to basic geographic 
data, even as they face threats of 
violence. In contrast, during the 
Gaza War of 2009, OpenStreetMap 
issued a call for contacts familiar 
with Gaza’s geography to fill its 
online map. “Information is our most 
powerful tool towards peace and 
understanding,” Mikel Maron, a Board 
Member of the OpenStreetMap 
Foundation, wrote on his blog at the 
time. “Let’s work towards openness 
and freedom.” OpenStreetMap now 
features a detailed map of roads 
and public services in Gaza. Asked 
by e-mail why he thought Google 
refused to open Map Maker to Gaza, 
Maron responded in a few terse 
sentences. “There is nothing political 
or financial to gain from opening up 
in Gaza,” he wrote. He speculated that 
“Google also has a substantial Israel 
presence.” Google is likely concerned 
about political spam, but to Maron 
there’s no defense for prioritizing 
corporate anxieties over equal access 
to information.


The combination of Google’s 
price hikes and restrictive policies have 
sucked the spirit from Mugaburu’s 
mapping efforts in the United States, 
though he plans to continue mapping 
in Peru. With mappers discouraged 
from voicing their concerns, Negoda 
and Mugaburu hope that consumer 
pressure will lead to reform. Pressure 
from activists recently compelled the 
World Bank to revise its relationship 
with Map Maker—“if the public 
helps to collect or create map data, the 
public should be able to access, use, 
and re-use that data freely,” a March 
2012 press release from the World 
Bank said—but a more widespread 
boycott remains unlikely. 


A geography teacher at St. 
Thomas Elementary School in New 
Haven recently asked Mugaburu to 
speak to his class about mapmaking. 
Mugaburu began developing ideas 
for demonstrations and activities 
and asked his supervisor at Google, 
Jessica, if she could provide stickers 
and other props. “I don’t think it’s a 
good idea for you to do this,” she told 
him. Mugaburu was discouraged; he’d 
been excited to share his mapmaking 
efforts with a new generation of 
cartographers. Jessica explained that 
an internet protection law prohibits 
anybody under the age of thirteen 
from having an e-mail account. She 
didn’t see why Mugaburu would want 
to promote mapmaking among kids 
too young to sign up for Google. As 
Mugaburu understood her, “if they 
can’t map, what are they good for?” 
wants 
give 
others a glimpse of the power of 
mapmaking, of the personal and 
political transformation that becomes 
possible when people get together to 
chart their world. He wants Google 
to recognize its obligation to the 
mappers who have offered their 
service under this ideal. And above all 
he wants to grant the next generation 
the gift of knowing that there’s a tool 
as powerful as words or songs or 
dances to understand its place and tell 
its stories. Google, on the other hand, 
just wants more mappers.


TNJ
Benjamin Mueller is a 
sophomore in Berkeley 
College and a Managing 
Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: The Pardoners**
**Author: Nikita Lalwani**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal
THE 
PARDONERS
By Nikita Lalwani
America’s prisoners 
attempt to reenter a 
society that doesn’t want 
them back.
Photo by Joy Shan


**Page number(s): 24**

pardon she received saved her life. “It 
means a wonder to have a pardon, it 
means I can start my life over with a 
clean slate,” she tells me over pizza. 
“My son, my daughter, my four 
grandkids, they’re all so proud of me” 
It’s been easier to get jobs, too, since 
employers no longer reject her after 
completing a background check.
It’s been thirteen years since 
Downing stopped selling crack. She 
now works as a crossing guard in New 
Haven, and sells homemade pies on 
the side. In some ways, she says her 
pie-baking business fills the void left 
when she stopped selling drugs. She 
often sells pies to her friends when 
they stop by her house. 
Downing seems to be proof that 
people really can change, and that 
makes me feel good. But then I ask 
her if having a pardon means she’ll 
never return to her criminal ways. 
“I’m trying to stay away from 
that for sure. These days I do my 
baking, I belong to a church, I’m 
trying to straighten my life out,” she 
says. Then, she adds a surprising 
concession: “You know, sometimes 
I am tempted to go back into selling 
drugs. Hopefully I won’t, but hey, we 
all have our personal hang-ups.” 
“What’s the sense in getting a 
pardon if you’ll go back on your 
word?” she adds, and I’m quick to 
agree. But perhaps the ease with 
which a pardon permits a felon to 
deceive explains why, despite how nice 
Downing seems, much of society may 
be uneasy with the notion of legal 
pardons. Criminal records serve a 
purpose: they provide warning signs to 
society to watch for recidivists. Some 
convicts who apply for pardons have 
physically assaulted people, and some 
have killed. Last year, the state of 
Connecticut pardoned four hundred 
three formerly convicted felons; that’s 
four hundred three people who can 
legally say they never committed the 
crime for which they once were found 
guilty. 
T
irzah Kemp, who helps people 
like Downing apply for pardons, 
has three appointments scheduled 
before her lunch break. One is with 
a man who holds a double homicide 
conviction, and two are with men 
who were arrested for possession of a 
firearm. It’s the beginning of a typical 
Thursday morning.
Tirzah, known to her friends as 
“Tee,” works in a small office tucked 
away on the second floor of New 
Haven’s City Hall. There, she works 
for the city’s Prison Reentry Initiative, 
a program launched in 2008 to offer 
resources and advice to formerly 
incarcerated residents — “everything 
from where to buy bus passes to how 
to draft a resume,” Kemp likes to 
say. Kemp’s work puts her in a good 
position to help ease societal concerns 
about pardons. 
Kemp is the typical social worker: 
friendly, motherly, efficient. She takes 
care to ask clients if they’ve spoken 
to their parents, if they have enough 
food stamps, whether or not they’re 
happy. 
Her office is covered with posters 
that encourage felons to vote or apply 
for housing or claim their civil rights. 
She grins when she tells me — as she 
often does — about clients of hers 
who have gone on to find gainful 
employment and turn their lives 
around.
In short, she seems born for this 
job. But until roughly a decade ago, 
she had never heard of it.
“I started working here after I got 
my felony,” she tells me the first time 
we meet. The public record will tell 
you that on September 6, 1999, she 
was convicted for assault in the second 
degree after stabbing her ex-boyfriend 
with a knife. She will add that it was 
the result of a short, tumultuous 
relationship that often turned violent.
Before her arrest, she’d never 
thought about felons or the lives 
they lead. But then came her charge 
and soon after, the three years on 
V
irginia Downing, 61, can 
legally 
say 
she’s 
never 
committed a crime.
Search 
“Virginia 
Downing” 
on any database of court records, 
and you’ll get nothing. Her record is 
spotless, indistinguishable from that 
of the most average, law-abiding 
citizen.
Yet ask her, and she’ll tell you 
that she’s been arrested “three or 
four times” in Fair Haven. She began 
cooking and selling crack in the early 
1990s, when she was bored and 
unemployed. Her friends would come 
to her apartment after work, begging 
her to supply them. “Idle hands are 
the devil’s workshop,” she intones. 
She sighs, accentuating the wrinkles 
on her weathered face. 
The last time Downing was 
arrested, in 1998, the police officer 
said to her, “Mrs. Downing, could 
you please find something else to 
do?” That’s when she realized she’d 
had enough. “They never found any 
guns on me or anything. I didn’t open 
my house for that,” she says. “I just 
wanted company. But it just wasn’t 
worth it anymore.”
The secret to her clean public 
record? She was pardoned.
In 2008, Connecticut removed 
Downing’s 
criminal 
conviction 
records from public view. A previously 
convicted felon may apply for a 
Connecticut state-issued pardon five 
years after committing a felony or 
three years after a misdemeanor. 
Downing spent the five years 
after her conviction getting clean, 
working at Krispy Kreme and Olive 
Garden, and volunteering at Mothers 
for Justice, an advocacy group for low-
income women. From her sobriety, 
employment, and community service 
work, she built a pardon application 
that stressed how the woman she 
had become was different from the 
one who once illegally sold drugs and 
alcohol. 
To hear Downing tell it, the 



**Title: The Pardon**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
25
Spring 2012
probation, the inevitable questions 
from her kids, the public stigma, the 
drawn-out job search. “But I always 
had a passion for helping people,” 
she’ll tell you. “I always tell people I 
didn’t choose to work with former 
offenders as a career path, it kind of 
chose me.”
A former felon herself, Kemp 
empathizes with her clients. But if 
Kemp stands at the pearly gates, 
helping some to get pardons and 
start anew, she also wants the chance 
to enter. For this reason, she decided 
in 2009 to begin her own pardon 
application. 

when I first contacted Amy 
Meek, Kemp’s colleague and 
the Reentry Initiative director, she did 
not want to talk to me about pardons.
“Advocates in the area of 
prisoner reentry really struggle with 
the press,” she told me over a phone 
call. “The fundamental issue is there is 
a lot of stigma associated with having 
a criminal conviction, sometimes with 
good reason, sometimes not.” Some 
reporters write about “ex-cons” or 
“felons,” unaware that these terms 
pigeonhole those trying to move 
on with their lives. Many don’t do 
background research. Most were 
probably brought up to believe that 
once someone becomes a criminal, 
they will always be one.

It 
is 
this 
perception 
that 
Amy fears. “The media too often 
stereotypes what someone looks like 
who has a criminal conviction. There’s 
an idea that they are a bunch of big, 
bad guys. But it’s estimated that nearly 
one in every four adults has a criminal 
conviction. So it’s not just about bad 
guys.” 

She’s right: according to a 
March 2011 study by the National 
Employment Law Project, nearly 
sixty-five million Americans have 
some sort of criminal record. That’s 
about a fifth of the population of the 
United States.

we’re 
on 
Kemp’s 
second 
appointment of the day, a 
twenty-eight-year-old 
black 
man 
named Smith Smith. He was convicted 
in 2009 for carrying a firearm and was 
released from jail this past January, on 
parole until this July. He’s here to work 
on his resume. 

Kemp sees a lot of people 
like Smith, who ask about resumes 
and job searches. Getting a job is 
difficult for anyone in this recessed 
economy, but for a convicted felon, 
it is nearly impossible. On top of 
this, the advocacy non-governmental 
organization Human Rights Watch 
estimated that nearly 3.5 million 
Americans are ineligible for federal 
housing based on their criminal 
records. 

Unsurprisingly, 
many 
are forced into homelessness and 
debilitating poverty — conditions 
that inspire some to return to a life of 
crime.

I 
ask 
Smith 
what 
he’ll 
do 
if 
his 
criminal 
conviction 
bars him from getting a job.
“I mean right now, I need money,” he 
says. “In the future I want to further 
my education and stuff. I don’t have 
much family support. I’ve never been 
a person who got into trouble, but 
I was caught at the wrong time. It’s 
always been hard to get jobs, but by 
having this big felony on me it’s going 
to be really hard. I know that.”

At this point Kemp interjects and 
asks me if I’ve read The New Jim Crow, 
a book by American Civil Liberties 
Union attorney Michelle Alexander. I 
haven’t.
“Read it. This is a perfect example 
of what she’s talking about,” she says 
gesturing towards Smith. “You have a 
black gentleman who made a very, very 
poor decision, no doubt. Rather than 
him getting an education or changing 
his behavior, he was incarcerated. 
The warehouse of his mind was not 
cultivated. And he’s coming home 
with the same mental behavior, if not 
more angry, and now the system will 


--- Page 26 ---

26
The New Journal
not allow him to right his wrong.”

Smith, who seems not to have 
thought about his conviction in those 
terms before, seems a bit taken aback. 
He is straight out of jail, quick to 
laugh, still optimistic that he can get 
his life back. He keeps telling me that 
he’s sure he’ll get a job.

Kemp joins in. “I didn’t realize 
how difficult it would be when I got 
my felony either,” she says. She had 
a job at that point and maintained 
her employment. But then she had 
her second son and took some time 
off. When she began searching for a 
new job, things were different. 

These days, employers can look 
up everything online, and even 
a cursory background check 
reveals her second-degree assault. 
They saw her felony, she said, 
and assumed she was prone to 
violence. Kemp thinks that few 
looked past her criminal record.

She stops typing up his 
resume for a moment to do a 
quick Google search for job 
openings. She has a point to 
make. “Look, here’s one.” It’s 
for kitchen maintenance work, 
a dishwasher. “You must have some 
experience in the kitchen,” she reads. 
“You must be able to pass a criminal 
background check.” She laughs at the 
requirement as if it were obviously 
absurd. For a moment, I wonder 
what’s so ludicrous: if I were working 
in a kitchen, I’d want some confidence 
that the dishwasher wasn’t a murderer. 
But then I realize the sort of criminal 
record Kemp means is probably 
something like possessing marijuana 
fifteen years ago — not the kind of 
crime that would put me or anybody 
else in our kitchen at risk. New Haven’s 
Board of Alderman have recently been 
thinking along similar lines as Kemp, 
voting on April 2 to make it easier for 
former felons to obtain street vendor 
licenses from the city. The Collateral 
Consequences Ordinance should help 
the one in seven applicants for street 
vendors licenses in New Haven who 
have been turned away because of 
their criminal records.

Kemp continues, it’s not that 
people with criminal records can’t 
get jobs. They can. They just have to 
know how to market themselves.

That’s where she can be of most 
help. There are certain tricks of the 
trade. She tells her clients that when 
an employer asks about their records, 
they should first explain that they 
regret their past actions and have 
learned from their mistakes. Then 
they should list all of the positive 
efforts they’ve made since then to 
reintegrate into the community. It’s a 
science: after they’ve established that 
they take full responsibility for their 
actions, they draw the employers’ 
attention away from their crimes and 
onto their progress.

Smith asks if she can write that 
down for him, and they both laugh. 
Start studying tonight, she jokes. Then 
she’s serious again: “Right now your 
record outweighs your skills. But with 
the correct marketing, it can be the 
opposite. I feel frustrated when guys 
come to me and say no one’s going 
to hire me because of my record. I’ve 
been doing this ten years now, and I 
don’t believe that’s true.”

She prints out his completed 
resume and continues searching for 
jobs online. Voila! A Connecticut 
company is looking for a truck tire 
changer. A valid driver’s license is the 
only requirement. She prints this out 
for him as well. We’re at the end of his 
appointment.
“Good luck,” I say to Smith as he 
puts his resume in his bag and gets up 
to leave.
“I need it,” he replies.

We’ve 
gone 
the 
whole 
conversation without bringing up one 
crucial fact: everything comes back to 
the pardon.

With a pardon, people like Smith 
don’t have to worry about employers 
conducting background checks. They 
don’t have to worry about being 
stopped at international borders. 
They don’t have to hedge when 
someone asks their criminal 
history.

Pardons 
can 
sometimes 
seem like an elusive holy grail. 
But where do they actually come 
from? While pardons can feel like 
the touch of Grace, gratuitous 
and redeeming, they are in fact 
doled out by the human hands of 
Connecticut state employees. 

only a short distance from 
the Waterbury train station 
lies a large, gray circular building, 
home to the Connecticut Board of 
Pardons and Paroles. Here, a board 
of eight reads and evaluates each 
pardon application. Here, the fate of 
people like Kemp and Smith hangs in 
the balance. Last year, nine hundred 
twenty-five 
people 
applied 
for 
pardons. Slightly more than one-third 
of these were granted.


--- Page 27 ---

27
On the fifth floor near the 
cubicles, Andrew Moseley, the official 
board manager, sits down at his desk. 
He is a black man of average height, 
soft-spoken and serious. He speaks 
slowly, with deliberation. When I ask 
him what the board looks for in a 
successful pardon application, he says 
it varies based on factors like how 
many convictions a person has or 
what type of life they led before their 
arrest.
“Suitability 
trumps 
eligibility 
every time,” he says. “The board likes 
to see people doing community service, 
we look for things like education, 
good references. They also look for 
a person’s sincerity in the application 
process. We look for honestly. We’re 
not interested in people who deny the 
veracity of their conviction because 
we’re not rehashing a case, simply 
going over what has been done since 
then.”

The board also looks at things 
like whether or not applicants have 
kept up with child support payments, 
what their family history is like, and 
if they have a clean motor vehicle 
record. If the board decides not to 
grant a pardon, it might still grant a 
provisional pardon — a certificate ex-
felons can show employers that says 
the state deems them fit to work.

But Moseley acknowledges what 
I’ve often heard Kemp complain 
about: provisional pardons are not 
as effective as they could be because 
the certificate lists all the crimes for 
which a person was convicted. When 
employers see that list, the provisional 
pardon becomes a reason to reject 
an application rather than accept it. 
Moseley said the board is working to 
create a provisional pardon that does 
not list criminal activity, but this may 
not happen for another year or two. 

Moseley sees his office as working 
with the Kemps and Smiths of the 
world rather than against them. He 
speaks with pride about Connecticut’s 
generous 
pardon 
system 
and 
believes strongly that pardons afford 
previously convicted felons a much-
needed chance to reintegrate back into 
society.
“Pardons allow people to get a new 
start, a real new start,” he says. “You’re 
back. Despite the years that have gone 
by, you’re back to never having been 
convicted.”

going back is easier said than 
done. The pardon application 
is fourteen pages long, with three 
additional pages for references. Like 
a college application, it asks for 
personal background information, a 
list of community service activities, 
and a few essays on why you should 
be granted a pardon.

Kemp tells me it took her roughly 
seven months to compile her own 
pardon application, which required 
hunting down old job supervisors 
recommendations, 
getting 
fingerprinted at the police station, 
and tracking down her written arrest 
record. “Putting the pardon package 
together and realizing how much I’d 
accomplished made me extremely 
proud of where I’ve come since the 
incident,” Kemp says.

She even asked her fourteen-year-
old son to write a letter on her behalf 
(“Why should Mommy get a pardon?” 
she remembers asking him), adding 
that she left his letter unedited so that 
his voice “really comes through.” She 
chokes up as she remembers what he 
wrote: “My mother is a very good 
mom... she teaches me the way to 
grow up so my life can be better than 
hers.”

At this point, Kemp pulls out her 
own pardon application to show me. 
It’s a huge packet, probably at least 
thirty pages long. As I read through, I 
am struck by the sincerity one passage 
in particular:
“A pardon will allow me the 
opportunity to live life on a clean 
slate, claim my freedom, and peace 
of mind,” she writes in Section 13: 
Purpose of Application. “My mother 
has been by my side through my 
transformation and I would love to 
show her how I have moved on with 
my life for the good.”

For Kemp, the stakes are high. 
If she loses her job, she might once 
again face hostile employers. When 
she decides it’s time for her family to 
move homes, she will once again have 
to apply for subsidized housing. More 
than these practicalities, a pardon 
would finally divorce her crime from 
her character.
“I made a bad choice and I had to 



**Title: The Unforgivable?**
**Author: Nikita Lalwani**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When does a crime become forgivable? And from whom is forgiveness sought?

From what I gathered from Downing, Kemp, and Smith, a pardon is more than a legal construct designed to give convicted felons back their full civil rights. It is also a vehicle for social absolution, an indication that the state — and perhaps society as well — has forgiven their crime.

Kemp, Smith, and the other pardon-seekers with whom I spoke all seemed eager to win me over to their side. In some sense, I was their surrogate for the state, someone on whom they could test-drive their new identities. And in some ways I was an easier critic. I could forgive their offenses because, well, they seemed to be genuinely trying to be better law-abiding citizens. It probably helped that their crimes seemed to be isolated, true mistakes.  

But then I was called up by a man who, thirty years ago, killed two people. He introduced himself as Michael Constantopoulos, one of Kemp’s clients. He’d heard I was writing an article about “people like me” and wanted to get involved.

We arrange to meet at dusk, the intersection of night and day, at a church on the corner of Wall and Orange. I decide to bring a friend. On the way over, I am conflicted. On the one hand, Constantopoulos had been polite and friendly on the phone, and I want to believe that the thirty years since his crime had made him someone other than a man who could kill two people. On the other, I can’t quite forget what his public record indicates: that he destroyed the lives of two people, two families, and probably countless friends. It seems appropriate that here is a slight chill in the evening breeze.

“Thank you so much for coming,” he says, holding the door to the church open for me. “I really appreciate what you’re doing.”

Constantopoulos has an open, honest face and is quick to bring up what I hesitate to ask. He was involved in a double homicide at the age of sixteen, then spent twenty-three years in prison. When I ask him for details, he says he doesn’t want to disrespect the victims by giving his side of the story. The public record reveals that Constantopoulos killed Reginald Hillyard and Chantel Grey after a car chase and altercation. He shot Hillyard five times.

“I came from a good family, but I chose the wrong friends and made the wrong decisions, trying to lead a life that wasn’t mine,” he says with a sad smile. “Some people call prison hell, but whatever you want to call it, it was a purification by fire. I went in as a boy and came out a man.”

In prison, he took a class in business education, trained as a tutor, and volunteered at a local hospital. 

Constantopoulos is quick to attribute his progress to the prison officers, counselors and nurses who worked with him in prison, all of whom believed he could change.

As he speaks, I am drawn to Constantopoulos in a way I didn’t expect. He is eloquent, clearly educated, and generous with his time and his responses.

Though only released from prison two weeks ago, Constantopoulos has already secured a job working as a peer mentor at South Central Behavioral Health Network — a group that works to stabilize people who abuse substances. He hopes eventually to train to be a nurse but knows this will be nearly impossible with his record. A pardon might be too much to hope for, he adds. 

When I ask Kemp about Constantopoulos, she agrees. But he should live as though he might one day get a pardon, she adds.

“I take full responsibility for my crime. I understand that there is nothing, nothing that will make amends for that, so I don’t expect to be pardoned outright,” Constantopoulos says. He looks straight at me. “I would hope that I receive some sort of recognition for amends I’ve tried to make since then. No matter what, I’ll always be deeply remorseful about my crime.”

Again, I am struck by how much he seems to want my acceptance, my forgiveness. Perhaps what he seeks is not so much a state pardon as a human pardon, one that will allow him to live one step at a time, one civil right at a time, as a normal citizen. 

As we stand up to leave, I ask him what changed. When did he stop being the Michael who killed two people and start being the one who volunteers at hospitals?

He says it happened one day in 1993 as he walked down a prison hallway, four years into his sentence. He was done being angry, done blaming others for his time. Reality had set in: he was going to be here a while. He found God, befriended his fellow inmates, and decided to get his life “back on track.”


Five months later, Smith has secured a job at ShopRite, a local supermarket, while Constantopoulos now works at the New Life Corporation, a New Haven non-profit that helps lower income families become financially secure. Soon, Tee will move on from her job at City Hall to become the coordinator of community partnerships at BOOST!, which aims to reduce the achievement gap in New Haven’s public schools. All the while, Kemp has begun the process of reapplying for a pardon. She should be done within the next two months, she says, after she compiles fingerprints and her state police background information. Then she’ll wait, hoping, praying that the state will finally recognize her as more than her crime.

Once, I asked Kemp if she felt that a pardon would diminish the seriousness of her assault. She looked down at her pardon application before answering.

“I think the seriousness of my offense has been diminished by the work I’ve done in the community,” she said. “So yes, my offense was extremely serious, but now I’ve given back as well. There comes a time when everyone deserves a chance to show that they have paid their debt back to society. It takes a person to diminish the seriousness of an offense, it took me to do that.”

Perhaps unknowingly, Kemp has hit upon what’s really at stake. The pardon is not so much about the state, or really even about the restoration of legal rights. The process is about us ­— about whether or not we as a society can accept that a person can change — and whether or not we can truly forgive those who err. Pardons restore economic power, they help convicts free themselves from the shackles of their guilt, and they give people social absolution. Can we, as members of society, face up to that final challenge to forgive, to allow someone who has paid her dues to reenter society, and to treat her as we would any law-abiding citizen?

We are all the pardoners.


**Title: Rebuilt & Recultured**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 30**

Photos by Brianne Bowen
An empty storefront on Dixwell Avenue reflects the manicured homes of Monterey Place across the street.



**Title: Spring 2012**
**Author: Catherine Osborn**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he offer of a tour of several 
New Haven neighborhoods 
by 
a 
self-described 
“ex-
hustler” was hard to turn down for 
two reasons. 
The first is that I study cities, 
specifically housing policy, and have 
written many a story and paper about 
what happens to communities when 
the government changes the type of 
buildings in a neighborhood and the 
rules about who is allowed to stay. 
The second is that I know this 
game. For three years now, every week 
I have walked visitors through Yale 
and explained the place to them as a 
Yale tour guide. I talk about what goes 
on inside the buildings and what kind 
of community we have here. 
In short, we have a complicated 
community. It’s hard to sum it all up in 
an hour and a half, so the version that 
goes out to visitors ends up being each 
guide’s imagined version of the school 
rather than the Complete Truth, which 
expands and collapses in different 
places at different moments and is 
knit daily of a thousand interactions, 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
32
The New Journal
wooden fence and residents walking 
with their heads down.
“So this is called ‘the G,’ which is 
short for the Ghetto,” Allick begins. 
“I couldn’t tell you why they call it 
that. But these are the worst projects 
in New Haven. Even though they 
remodeled them about four, five years 
ago, they are still projects. A lot of 
illegal activity still takes place around 
here.” 

Allick would know. He says he 
is allowed over here because of his 
history of hustling. “I know everybody 
from everywhere. If we was talking on 
the phone, I could figure out where 
you at according to what projects you 
was in. ‘Oh, you was in the Hill? The 
Island? The Ville? The Tribe?’ ” 

The Tribe’s physical frame has 
been remodeled into Monterey Place 
for thirteen years now, time enough to 
check back in about the culture of the 
area. By spending time with Allick and 
Gallman, I hoped to find out what the 
culture had changed from, and what it 
was changing into.   

“So our buildings were like this, 
“Now, with the 
new project, it’s 
responsibility time. 
You gotta go out 
there, get a job. You 
gotta step outside 
the box, and a lot 
of people can’t step 
outside the box.”
transactions, and relationships. We 
tend to veer toward what we value in 
the place, in the hope that others will 
see that as well. 

I met Hugh “HG” Gallman 
and Darrell Allick through a fellow 
student who got to know them while 
researching the New Haven rap scene. 
Through their tour, Allick wanted 
to show me what they valued in the 
Dixwell area of New Haven, known 
to them as The Tribe, and how 
it had changed since they grew 
up there. Eager to hear their 
perspective, I got in the back of 
their sedan. 

“T
he Tribe” refers to the 
community that grew up 
in the Elm Haven housing project 
on Dixwell Avenue between 
Webster and Bristol Streets. 
At the time of its demolition, 
the Elm Haven was the oldest 
public housing in New Haven. 
It made way for a development 
called Monterey Place, a mixed-
income housing community that 
abuts Yale’s campus just past 
the police station and health 
center. Like all mixed-income 
housing, Monterey Place is a 
social experiment; theoretically, 
interspersing market-rate homes 
with 
government-subsidized 
homes would dilute the culture itself 
of poverty and promote more positive 
values in the community.  

After he picks me up on the 
northeast corner of Yale’s campus, 
Gallman doesn’t drive straight to the 
Tribe. To help me understand what 
his area used to be like, he is driving 
us to another part of town, heading 
east down Grand Avenue toward the 
neighborhood of Fair Haven. We turn 
left down Franklin Street and begin to 
encircle a group of red brick, three-
story buildings called Farnam Courts. 
At the front of the development, there 
is a busy playground of parents and 
children. At the back, there is a long 
but worse,” Allick continues, pointing 
in the G. “Dirty, nasty, filthy. That’s 
how it was back in ’88, ’90. And our 
high-rises were twelve stories instead 
of three, like you see here. Remember 
this.”

When we are done in Fair Haven, 
we reverse course back toward 
downtown New Haven, pass it, and 
turn up Dixwell. The sign announcing 
“Monterey Place,” with a perky “y” 
styled to look like a musical 
note, appears freshly painted. 
So do the wood-paneled homes 
behind grassy lawns. They are 
all 
professionally 
landscaped. 
If Farnam Courts is The Wire, 
Monterey Place is The Stepford 
Wives. 
This car ride is a trip in a 
New Haven public housing time 
machine.

M
onterey Place was designed 
in the mid-nineties by the 
Housing Authority of the City of 
New Haven (HANH), the local 
arm of the U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urban Development 
(HUD). The Elm Haven high-
rises had been demolished in 
1991. It took seven years for the 
construction of low-rise, garden-
style apartments and townhomes 
in their place. The majority of 
these homes are designed for one 
family. Only some are subsidized. 
Management of the property was 
transferred to a private real estate firm, 
and Monterey Place was inaugurated.  

The Housing Authority, which 
remains responsible for overseeing 
around three thousand housing units 
and over three thousand Section 
8 Housing vouchers, offers rent-
assistance for low-income families. 
HANH is the largest landlord in the 
city. It also has the tricky mandate 
of strategically adding or relocating 
government-subsidized housing units 
where it sees fit.
“Affordable 
housing 
is 
one 



**Title: The New Haven Housing Authority and the Transformation of Dixwell**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
33
Spring 2012
of the last government benefits to 
remain geographically defined,” says 
Cynthia Horan, a professor of urban 
politics at Yale. “Most things the 
government provides you today are 
based on qualities that move with 
you when you move. Your family 
income, for example, is going to 
determine whether you get a welfare 
check or whether your children get 
free lunch at school.” Horan says 
subsidized housing is unique in that 
the government is pointing to a 
specific area on a map that it wants to 
improve. The Housing Authority has 
to consider how that area fits into and 
affects the city as a whole.


In making these choices, HANH 
is limited by what it can afford to 
build and refurbish. This makes for 
slow work. Because public housing 
developments have gone so famously 
wrong in the past, this work is also 
highly scrutinized by the neighbors. 
Monterey Place was built fourteen 
years ago. Is it working today? 
“It’s tricky to say whether public 
housing works or not, because there 
are no across-the-board metrics,” 
says Paul Bass, editor of the New 
Haven Independent. Having covered 
Connecticut for over thirty years, Bass 
has seen many New Haven projects 
come and go. As a first measure, 
he suggests comparing crime rates 
before and after a development 
is redone. Secondly, how has the 
appearance of the place changed? 
And most difficult to measure, but 
of towering importance, is whether 
those 
theoretically 
transformative 
relationships between low- and high-
income tenants is occurring: “Are 
neighbors friends if their backyards 
are connected?” 


A 2003 Yale Law Review article 
pointed 
out 
that 
the 
Dixwell 
neighborhood had indeed become 
safer since the development of 
Monterey Place, and that there was a 
waiting list to live in both the market-
rate and the subsidized units.  Past 
HANH head Robert Solomon is 
generally satisfied with the project, 
but he says there is has an important 
drawback to keep in mind. Because 
the project spread out the affordable 
units, they became fewer in number 
overall: “You’re always looking for 
ways to create more units. Always, 
when the need is so high.”


Putting 
aside 
generally 
positive numerical indicators about 
the quality of life in Monterey Place, 
there has certainly been a change in 
the way residents relate to each other. 
But it’s a little more complicated than 
whether neighbors become friends. 
A
s Allick remembers it, Elm 
Haven began with the premise 
that “if you can’t get a job, you can 
always hustle in the projects, and 
everybody had your back.”  Mentally, 
he says it was very hard to justify 
stepping out of this culture, and “the 
body follow the mind.” Now both 
Allick and Gallman have stepped out: 
they mentor juvenile offenders at the 
state-funded Juvenile Review Board, 
and Allick gives talks at Dixwell-area 
Hillhouse High School encouraging 
kids to choose alternative paths from 
joining the traffic. 


Allick says the culture in his 
old neighborhood has changed in 
that “now, with the new project, it’s 
responsibility time. You gotta go out 
there, get a job. You gotta step outside 
the box, and a lot of people can’t step 
outside the box.” Because of their old 
habits, many of the residents of the 
Elm Haven were not allowed to move 
into new homes in Monterey Place. 
There were several police inspections 
of Elm Haven homes right before 
its demolition, and “if your house 
got raided and they found drugs, 
you couldn’t come back and live over 
here,” Allick says. “It happened to a 
lot of people.”


This is when Allick and Gallman 
first point out a downside to the 
changes in the neighborhood: “It 
broke everyone up,” says Allick. 
“We’re not able to see each other like 
we used to see each other, like every 
day. Now they all claim to be from 
another project, and they act funny 
when they see each other.”


We drive by two closed buildings 
that the navigators point to as losses 
for the community. The first is their 
“hood club,” for which Allick gives 
me a different name depending on 
which year I ask him about: it was 
either Cardinals, the Dirty Bird, 
Butta J’s, or Red Café. It resembles a 
cement block. The second place is a 
community center called the Dixwell 
Q House, which Gallman says “was 
like a father figure to many.”


“They had sports there—football, 
basketball,” says Allick. “We could go 
there for recreation. There were arts 
and crafts and a ping-pong table, and 
dances at night for the community. 
Now people are fighting for it to open 
back up. There is a petition, and even 
the alderman is on board.” 


Most of all, Allick seems to miss 
knowing everyone. We drive into the 
neighborhood to the south and he 
explains that the Tribe was friends with 
the group in this community, called 
the Tre. These are neighborhood 
groups, not gangs, Allick maintains, 
but still “if you was from the Tre, and 
you shot someone from the Tribe, we 
would retaliate. If they shot one of 
our boys, we would go back and shoot 
one of their boys.”  


Labels carry heavy weight in 
these situations. The New Haven 
Police Department has used the term 
“gang” in association with violence 
in the Tribe, but Allick maintains that 
these were simply personal beefs, and 
that current neighborhood groups 
are different from older New Haven 
gangs and national gangs like the 
Latin Kings that have been edging in 
recently. “Bloods and Grape Street—
that’s not from here; that’s California 
stuff.” 


We’re headed for the Tre now, 


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 34 ---

34
The New Journal
and Allick has a suggestion for a 
better route. “Turn up here, H., onto 
Edgewood.” He swivels backward to 
explain, “I memorized New Haven 
so much that I travel by the light. I 
memorized all of the quickest traffic 
lights. I’m impatient, so I will go the 
easiest route according to which light 
is going to change and which takes the 
longest.”

It’s not long before Allick 
recognizes someone at a home we pass 
and comments to Gallman, “Blizz be 
over here all the time—he always on 
the porch.”

“Well, I think he married one of 
them,” Gallman replies.

“It gotta be Ron G baby mother. 
It gotta be the younger sister.”

“Yeah, it is.”

“Alright—it can’t be the other 
one, because she live on the other side 
of the fence. I used to think ‘Why 
Blizz always on the porch?’ but you 
just confirmed it! He married one of 
them.” 

Allick turns to me in the peanut 
gallery. “There are three sisters we 
know over here, and one of my boys 
married one of them.” 

Back to Gallman: “I didn’t 
know…so he left Tash. Right?”

“Mm-hm.”

W
hen I give Yale tours, I 
explain our own comically 
overprivileged mixed-income housing 
system, the residential colleges, which 
I would argue does create diverse 
friendships. And just as Allick took 
close care to describe the community 
aspect of the Tribe, there is much 
talk on Yale tours about the general 
happiness and lack of competition 
among the student body here. 

Does that generalization describe 
all Yalies, all of the time? Certainly not. 
I don’t think 18 to 22-year-olds would 
really have formative experiences if 
they were happy and comfortable all 
of the time.  The anxiety of navigating 
Yale is hardly comparable to the 
anxieties of living in the old Elm 
Haven, but it is a tangible part of the 
tapestry of life here.

Darrel’s tour certainly paints the 
Tribe in a positive light. But must he 
acknowledge the darker moments 
between community members in 
the Tribe to be telling “the truth” 
about the place? He and I both deal 
in allusions—we will mention those 
moments if asked about them. But 
I see in Allick my own tendency 
to favor qualities I value in my 
community when recruiting new 
members, or explaining ourselves to 
visitors—I think it helps turn those 
values into realities. Allick and I aren’t 
going to bring up competition among 
students or the lure of a career in the 
drug traffic, because we believe in the 
power of narrative to shape a culture. 

T
o hear a different voice from the 
inside of the Dixwell community, 
I walk into Monterey Place on a 
Sunday afternoon during holiday 
season. In the community resource 
center, a white-painted building next 
door to Wexler-Grant School on 
the north end of the development, 
the New Haven Police Department 
has funded a holiday party. Children 
emerge across the empty lawn, trailing 
parents with take-home baggies of 
fried chicken and Cheetos. Inside, two 
women are directing the takedown of 
decorations, which will be bundled in 
a lace tablecloth that tears off a little 
at the corner when you try to tie it. It’s 
kind of stiff and has a couple of hot 
sauce stains. 

“Don’t worry about it, honey—I 
think that may be on its last leg.”

The lady in charge is Barbara 
Whitaker, president of the Residents’ 
Council of Monterey Place. She is “a 
senior citizen and proud of it,” with a 
buoyant Congresswoman hairdo and 
a floor-sweeping peacock wool coat. 
She and fellow event coordinator 
Gloria Gray are gathering up the 
extra food and distributing it to those 
making their way out. “If we leave it in 
the kitchen here, kids will just steal it.” 
Finally, the only things left in the main 
front room are an empty table and a 
Christmas tree blinking a glow across 
the cement floor.

Whitaker has lived here since 
1964, save a five-year period when her 
husband was in the military.  She got a 
degree in social services and has been 
active in community leadership since 
the early eighties. “And she is related 
to everyone in New Haven,” says Gray, 
who at fifty has several grandchildren 
of her own. Whitaker’s job is to 
mediate between the residents of the 
subsidized Monterey Place units, the 
Housing Authority, HUD, and the 
private landlord Beacon Corcoran 
Jennison (BCJ). She can tell you all 
about the negotiations surrounding 
the planning of Monterey Place, when 
“they told us we were gonna have 
chandeliers, and then that went under 
the rug. Oh, and basements, which I 
wish we did have with all these storms 
and stuff.” 

Today Whitaker’s biggest day-
to-day work is navigating the “gray 
area” between the stipultions of the 
different agencies that supervise the 
low-income residents. HUD only 
comes to inspect their homes once 
a year, but BCJ requires four to five 
inspections a year, about which they 
give varying degrees of notice. 

“It’s an aggravation. It got to the 
point where we got two lawyers from 
Legal Aid,” said Whitaker, “because 
the real estate company has some big 
time 
lawyers—money, 
honey—all 
the way in Washington D. C., so we 
got our lawyers to say to them, ‘The 
laws of Connecticut state if it’s not 
an emergency, they have no right to 
come into your home when you are 
not there.’ As a matter of fact, one girl 
moved out because of it. Oh god, what 
was her mother’s name? She comes 
home, and this maintenance guy is 
standing in the middle of her floor. 
And she didn’t call for maintenance!”


--- Page 35 ---

35
Spring 2012
“Oh, wow,” murmurs Gray. 

“Oh, it’ll come to me. I think it 
was Renée’s niece—”

“Renée?”

“Renée that passed.”

“Oh, okay. Okay. Shawna.”

“Yeah. It was her house. And 
really it was an invasion of privacy.”

Like Whitaker, Gray has lived 
here since the beginning. She says the 
biggest change in the community since 
it was redone is that people are “more 
to themselves. We have a lot of new 
people here, which is good, but they 
don’t socialize or interact as much.” 

“When we first moved here,” 
Gray continues, “all of the parents 
got together, and we gave them 
respect. Everybody was our mom. 
And you had better give them respect 
because if you did something wrong, 
everybody’s on the phone, and by the 
time you got home, Momma’s in the 
door. Today you don’t have that.”

Whitaker agrees. “At old Elm 
Haven, no matter what all our 
problems were, I’ll tell you point 
blank: we had a unity there. Maybe 
it’s because of the way the homes are 
situated now. It’s supposed to be less 
dense. Today you put up a poster for 
an event, and not that many people 
will come.” 

Gray chimes in: “Used to be with 
events, you would know somebody 
who knows so-and-so, and everyone’s 
asking ‘are you going to the meeting 
tonight?’ Not anymore. Then again, a 
lot of people don’t like the way it is 
here no more.”

“That’s because they have to 
follow rules and regulations, which is a 
good thing,” says Whitaker. They both 
agree the changes in the community 
are good on the whole. But they say 
young people’s involvement in crime 
is rising since its original drop in the 
early 2000s. “Back then, the guys 
who go to the Q House could leave 
at eleven or twelve o’clock and end 
up safe.  My fear now is that another 
neighborhood may come driving 
by and shooting and things of that 
nature.”

“That’s my concern,” says Gray. 
“You can have programs for the 
kids, but these kids are what they 
Monterey Place homes opposite Wexler-Grant School on Foote Street 
frame Yale’s Payne Whitney Gymnasium.


--- Page 36 ---

36
Above: The headquarters of the Monterey Place 
Residents’ Council. Inside is the office of Barbara 
Whitaker, President of the Council. Right: Signs 
throughout the development like this one bear the 
logo of Monterey Place, directing residents ot the 
office.

Left: This map outlines different 
neighborhoods, or “turfs,” in New 
Haven. The red area outlines the 
Dixwell Neighborhood, known to the 
young people who live there as the 
home of “The Tribe.” Map data from 
Google.

Map courtesy of Alan Sage from Middleman.



**Title:  [Untitled]**
**Author: [Catherine Osborn]**
**Page number(s): [37-38]**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
37
Spring 2012
call ‘beefing’ with other groups for 
reasons I don’t know. As soon as you 
get the kids in, you’ve got innocent 
kids that’s being killed as well. You’ve 
already seen the newspaper. There’s 
like, what, thirty-something homicides 
already this year?”

The end of 2011 marked a 
twenty-year 
high 
of 
thirty-four 
homicides in New Haven. Both 
city-led and grassroots initiatives 
have sprung up in response to this; 
the week I spoke to Whitaker there 
was a panel at Cooperative Arts 
and Humanities High School called 
“Fighting Back” attended by two 
hundred people. Panelists included 
our own Allick, as well as Mayor 
John DeStefano, and Dixwell beat 
cop Shafiq Abdussabur. Abdussabur 
is a well-known youth advocate who 
runs a program educating young men 
about gun violence. 

“I know Shafiq,” says Whitaker. 
“I wish more people came to his 
programs, but they’re teenagers, and 
you know how they get. It’s like, 
‘POLICE!’” She raises her eyebrows 
and shakes her hands on either side of 
her head. “I would like to see the kids 
who really need a role model come to 
the program—you really need to reach 
these fifteen-, sixteen-, fourteen-year-
old guys out here. Their trust is not 
going to come easily, even with Shafiq. 
Trust is earned. It’s not given.”

Whitaker says she doesn’t keep 
in close touch with old Elm Haven 
residents who moved away. She 
wishes more of those who stayed on 
at Monterey Place would be involved 
with the Residents’ Council. “People 
were very vocal during the transition 
process. But now they just sit back and 
say ‘OK, it’s done.’ But it’s not a done 
deal. People should still be concerned 
with the problems in the community, 
instead of only speaking up when 
there is a regulation that they have to 
fuss about.”

Although Whitaker would like 
residents to be more proactive about 
setting a positive tone for young 
people, she thinks the changes to the 
current management of Monterey 
Place have made progress as far as 
setting a behavioral standard. She 
would agree with Allick that change 
starts in the mind, and praises the 
landlord for its policies. “Some 
people, you can take them out of the 
ghetto, but they still have that ghetto 
mentality. I’m glad BCJ is strict,” she 
says. “I got tired of living in the Wild, 
Wild West.” 

R
obert Solomon, who served 
HANH for a total of fourteen 
years as director, board member, and 
chairman of the board, was also a 
ten-year director of clinical studies at 
Yale Law School. Since 1994, Yale has 
operated an Employee Homebuyer 
Program that will pay employees thirty 
thousand dollars toward buying a home 
in certain areas of the city that include 
all of New Haven’s “Empowerment 
Zones”—neighborhoods designated 
by the U.S. Department of Housing 
and Urban Development to receive 
special funding because of the 
“high 
unemployment, 
crumbling 
infrastructure, minimal access to 
business capital, and poverty.” Before 
the end of 2011, employees received 
$35,000 if they bought a house in the 
Dixwell zone. Yale has directly funded 
a mixed-income housing project 
downtown called the Residences at 
Ninth Square. 

In other words, when you’re 
talking about making over New Haven 
by determining who settles down 
where, you have to talk about Yale. 
The changes in the city over the last 
few decades would not have occurred 
without the influence of some minds 
from the university, whether they were 
crafting public policy or providing 
private support. On tours, I say that 
New Haven benefits from having 
Yale just as Yale benefits from being 
in New Haven—again, the kind of 
PR you say because you want it to be 
true, not because it is unconditionally 
so. Yale has had problematic effects 
on the city as well, and the truth is 
that the two are so intertwined, it is 
worthless to speculate about what one 
would be like without the other.


This narrative of the university 
benefiting the city has become 
stronger—at least in the press—
over the past few decades. In a sort 
of town-gown university dream, a 
March 2011 Wall Street Journal article 
said that downtown New Haven was 
undergoing a “renaissance—reversing 
a flight to the suburbs and bringing 
people back to the city” due in part to 
Yale real estate investments in the city. 

Allick is not so quick to heap 
praise on the University. He says 
Yale wants to take all of the current 
residents of Monterey Place and move 
them out to a just-remodeled, mixed-
income development in West Rock. 
“Yale don’t want no violence next to 
their school, period. So if they could 
buy the property and move everybody 
out, they willing to do that,” he says 
with raised eyebrows. “Have you 
heard anything about that?” 

I am appalled, but also skeptical. I 
haven’t heard. Where did he hear? 
“There is a guy who lives out 
there in the Brookside”—one of the 
developments to get redone—“who 
used to come and tell us things. He 
would let us know what’s about to 
happen, but he don’t come no more. 
You should check if it’s true.”  

Robert Solomon says there is no 
legal way Yale could do that. “There are 
protections on the subsidies for many 
of those homes, which means there is 
a period of time in which they can only 
go to low-income renters. In Monterey 
Place, some of the protections last 
thirty years, some longer. Somehow 
there is always a rumor that Yale 
would want something like that, but 
they have no way of mandating it.” 

I passed the information back to 
Allick, wondering whether the rumor 
reflected more widely-held stereotypes 


--- Page 38 ---

38
The New Journal
TNJ
Catherine Osborn is a 
senior in Pierson College.

in the neighborhood about Yale’s 
intentions with public housing in 
the city. Gallman and Allick’s offer 
to be tour guides to me was part of 
the community outreach projects 
they have been doing since they’ve 
“stepped outside of the box.” The 
first time I met them, they had come 
to eat lunch with some Yale students 
to explain pressures in youth growing 
up in New Haven. Allick wishes there 
could be more informal hanging out 
between Yale students and kids at high 
risk from “the street—from the real 
New Haven.” 

Since our tour, Allick has 
continued this kind of work. He hopes 
to have his criminal record cleared 
soon. Depending on how you frame 
things, Gallman has poorer timing 
or graver past sins—on a phone call, 
Allick told me he had been “locked 
up” for three years. Gallamn had been 
fighting a sales of narcotics charge 
since January, 2010. 

At the end of the day, regardless 
of Yale’s institutional aspirations, 
many New Haven residents measure 
its relationship with the city through 
the Yalies they know. Whitaker could 
care less whether Yale wants graduate 
students to live in Monterey eventually. 
She remembers with fondness a 
program during the seventies through 
the nineties in which Yale students 
would come work with the kids and 
“show them the world outside of 
just this…It’s good to set them down 
and say, ‘you’re a man,’ you know, or 
‘you’re a young lady.’ Fine. But teach 
me how to live in the world.”

O
n Saturday, March 31, two events 
had been carefully planned that 
aimed to bring Yale and New Haven 
communities together. The first was 
a march to protest racial profiling in 
the wake of the February shooting 
of unarmed black Florida teenager 
Trayvon Martin by a neighborhood 
watch volunteer. The second was a 
rap showcase featuring Yale and New 
Haven rappers cohosted by WYBC 
Yale Radio, the African-American 
Cultural Center at Yale, and a new Yale 
student organization called Middleman 
that aims to “improve conduits 
between the university and New 
Haven’s inner-city neighborhoods.” 
Middleman’s founder, Alan Sage, was 
the one who had first introduced me 
to Gallman and Allick. 

At noon on the 31st, an email 
went out to the WYBC Yale Radio 
DJs announcing the cancellation of 
the evening event due to security 
concerns from the Yale Police. An 
email from YPD Assistant Chief 
Michael Patten to the Yale Daily News 
cited “tensions we’ve seen between 
various groups in the city and recent 
incidents occurring outside events.” 
The phrase “fear of gang activity” 
was used by the organizers as an 
explanation for its cancellation. 

The march for Trayvon Martin 
took place at 4 p.m. with gusto. Over 
four hundred participants, roughly 
a quarter of them Yale students, 
gathered at the Q House and marched 
down Dixwell Street and through 
Yale’s campus on Elm Street, circling 
the New Haven Green and ending up 
on the steps of City Hall, where various 
community organizers gave speeches. 
I saw several faces at the march that 
I might have expected to see at the 
rap showcase that evening, but more 
importantly, there were so many faces 
at the march. It was conceived by 
the political action chair of the Black 
Students Alliance at Yale, who worked 
with various other activist groups 
from Yale and New Haven such as 
NAACP chapters and community 
organizers from the Dixwell area. Also 
present was Dixwell-area alderwoman 
Jeannette Morrison, who is working 
with a group of Yale students and 
New Haven residents to advocate 
and fundraise for the re-opening of 
the Q House. There was the rogue 
speaker during comments who made 
sure to remind Yale students present 
that their university was built on the 
back of slave labor, but several others 
commended so may Yale students for 
attending the event.  

G
allman, Allick, and I finished 
up the fall tour of New Haven 
driving by the colony of tents on the 
New Haven Green. “What are they 
doing?” Gallman had asked. I spoke to 
him briefly about Occupy Wall Street 
and dissatisfaction with the wealth 
distribution in the country.  “Ohhhh,” 
Gallman intoned. “Were they the ones 
that got sprayed by the police?”

“I think so, in New York.” 

He and Allick most certainly fall 
in the 99 percent, but they seemed 
a little bemused by the campers’ 
manifesto. The Occupiers didn’t have 
much hustle.

The Tribe, too, has lost some of 
its hustle since it became Monterey 
Place. The Q House and “hood club” 
are vacant, and it’s now “responsibility 
time” instead of everyone having your 
back. Neither City Hall nor the Tribe 
wants to return to the dense projects 
of the past, but I got the sense that 
the old soul of Elm Haven could 
perhaps be harnessed to strengthen 
Monterey Place. The fight to reopen 
the Q house is an example of this 
possibility. Gallman and Allick’s tour 
might be just one version of the story, 
but by holding up the qualities they 
value in their community, they showed 
me the importance of considering the 
souls of New Haven neighborhoods 
instead of just their statistics.



**Title: FLYING THE STARS**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): [39]**

39
By Jacque Feldman
FLYING
THE
STARS
A feng shui consultant converts one skeptic along with her apartment.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
My Four Pillars chart is 
weighted heavily toward 
Fire. 

Anyone 
schooled 
in feng shui would be alarmed at its 
extreme skew after performing the 
requisite set of calculations with my 
gender and date and time of birth. Fire 
is associated with red, green, triangles, 
and rectangles. These colors and 
shapes in my environment will bring 
out Fire. Being “born of Fire,” as it’s 
called, I am susceptible to ailments of 
the heart and tongue and might seek 
to improve my health by consuming 
mushrooms and apricots. I’m likely to 
become a great musician, artist, actor, 
or writer. I may also have a passion 
for antiques or electronics. However, 
experts consider a chart so consumed 
by one element to be undesirable and 
dangerous, and I should surround 
myself with representations of Water, 
Earth, Wood, and Metal for balance.


I learned some of this from 
special guidebooks and some of it 
from Gregg Nodelman, a feng shui 
consultant who says he has a karmic 
responsibility not to use his privileged 
knowledge to tell fortunes. He worries 
that people may unconsciously work 
to fulfill negative as well as positive 
prophecies and he would prefer not to 
mess around with that. He calculates 
Four Pillars charts, which are also 
called Pillars of Destiny, but applies 
them only to his clients’ physical 
surroundings. He used to do this by 
hand but now uses special software.
“The way I work is, I’m really 
literal,” Nodelman says.


Nodelman is a Metal, so his lungs, 
nose, and large intestine are prone to 
sickness. He is slim and tallish, with 
neat, close-cropped salt-and-pepper 
hair. When I first met Nodelman, he 
was wearing a forest-green shirt and 
striped button-down with skillfully 
matched dark green slacks. Nodelman 
strives for balance by surrounding 
himself with Earth tones like these. He 
does not smoke. He wears hexagonal 
spectacles with transitional lenses that 
are clear inside and shaded outdoors 
so his eyes are at home anywhere. 
Officially, Dancing Dragon Feng 
Shui is based in Nodelman’s home 
office in Branford, Connecticut. 
There, he calculates Four Pillars charts, 
which determine clients’ mingua, or 
favorable directions independent of 
their domiciles. Feng shui is an ancient 
Chinese system for determining 
auspicious arrangements of manmade 
space. It deals not only with rooms, 
but also with their inhabitants, whose 
individual needs—as revealed by 
their Four Pillars charts—require 
differently arranged environments. 
Nodelman also can pin down lucky 
spots in a particular building using its 
location and age, a process he calls 
“flying the stars.” 


Most 
of 
Nodelman’s 
work 
happens on-site, at homes and 
businesses to which people have 
summoned him. He shuffles around 
seats at businesses—a town hall, a hair 
salon—to manipulate the firms’ power 
dynamics. He has found that people 
who ask him to rearrange their homes 
often have bigger problems they wish 
he would solve. Clients break down. 
They tell him about infidelities and 
impending foreclosures. Nodelman 
was once asked to rearrange a family’s 
home and wound up intuiting that 
one son had a drug problem. He later 
found the son’s stash in the ceiling of 
his bedroom.


Nodelman always asks clients 
for their specific goals in seeking his 
services. When I asked him to view 
my apartment, I wasn’t entirely sure 
what to tell him. I was curious to hear 
his recommendations but couldn’t 
rationally conceive of a problem that 
flown stars could solve. I don’t believe 
in feng shui—or even, really, in interior 
decorating. I have a high clutter 
threshold. I never unpack suitcases 
and tend to leave papers and jackets 
and plates strewn about my space. 
After my parents divorced, I grew up 
stuffing clothes into a navy blue duffel 
bag in one temporary bedroom on 
Friday evenings and emptying them 
onto the floor of another, even more 
temporary bedroom, only to restuff 
them two days later. Nodelman 
wonders of his clients, “Does their 
room look like this as a manifestation 
of their life, or is their life like this 
because of the way their room is 
arranged?” I think, “I just live here.”


But this was no reason not to 
see what Nodelman would do to my 
apartment. I gave him my time, date, 
and place of birth, as he requested. 
I managed to come up with a worry 
about my future career. He said that 
was enough to go on. “The feng shui 
leaves people with their own to-do 
lists,” he added. “Whatever changes 
I suggest would have to be done by 
you. I’m not going to move your 
desk.” It’s sometimes necessary to 
move desks because poorly placed 
objects can affect the energy, or chi, of 
a space. A few days before he visited 
my apartment, as Nodelman and I 
were taking a walk around the New 
Haven Green, he stopped and told me 
to point my pen at my eye. 


I maneuvered my pen and looked 
at him.


Nodelman corrected me, pulling 
out his own pen to demonstrate. I 
had to really point it. I placed the pen’s 
business end a few inches from my 
right eye and stared it down.


He asked me how I felt.
“Bad,” I said.
“That’s a poison arrow,” he said 
triumphantly. “That’s what’s coming 
off your pen. You know you’re not 
going to stab yourself in the eye. It’s 
energetic.” He gestured expansively at 
a building overhanging Chapel Street. 
“You know that building’s not going 
to collapse,” he said, “but standing 
under all that concrete and glass, 
you’re going to feel a little bit off-
balance.”


I pocketed my pen and looked 
slightly askance at Nodelman. He was 
standing with his back to a blinding 



Under the Shang dynasty, which 
ruled China from 1600 to 1050 
BCE, diviners burned luminous, 
prophetic oracle bones; under the 
Sung dynasty, which reigned from 
960 to 1126 AD, they practiced the 
first professional feng shui; over the 
intervening two thousand years, 
a series of sages yoked the 
common wisdom for choosing 
sanitary burial grounds to the 
aggregated beliefs of Buddhism, 
Confucianism, Taoism, ancestor 
worship, and elemental and yin 
and yang energies—and came 
out with feng shui, which means 
“wind water.” Many Chinese 
homeowners and businessmen 
still seriously consult its rules. 


When feng shui attained 
fad status in the West during 
the 1990s and 2000s, its focus 
shifted from exterior space 
to interior design and from 
placating ancestor spirits to 
solving 
personal 
problems. 
Practitioners in the West have 
generally 
exaggerated 
the 
astrological component of feng shui 
because of their clients’ seemingly 
bottomless need to control what lies 
ahead. Western feng shui guidebooks 
promise that expertly arranged homes 
guarantee 
love, 
fulfillment, 
and 
financial success. Initiates write letters 
like this to the agony-aunt column on 
World of Feng Shui, a British online 
magazine founded in 1998:


I have placed a raw amethyst crystal 
geode under the marital bed and I am 
sleeping on the right side of  the bed and 
my husband should sleep on the left. I have 
also placed mandarin ducks and a couple 
of  married toys on the table next to my bed 
too with red table lamp on each side. But 
my husband is still committing infidelity. 
He asked for divorce and is ill-treating our 
children. He is a Rabbit and I am a Dragon. 
He is planning to see the lady in July, Aunt 
Agga, please help, I need your advice on 
how I can bring his heart back. I have also 
placed a Rooster with Fan and Amethyst in 
the North of  the living room. Please reply 
soonest possible, as my husband is planning 
to see the lady very soon. Please help, I am 
very sad and desperate for help and advice to 
mend the situation. Thank you.


Aunt Agga replied with horror, 
sympathy, and the suggestion that the 
writer double-check that the crystal 
geode under the bed was clean and 
tied to the bed with red thread.


In some ways, Nodelman and 
Dancing Dragon Feng Shui are 
products of this craze. Nodelman 
studied feng shui at the Metropolitan 
Institute of Design in Syosset, New 
York, whose Universal Feng Shui 
Practitioner Certification Program 
was the first in the country to be 
accredited. However, Nodelman found 
the program too “watered-down” and 
“Westernized.” He notes that feng 
shui was not yet wildly popular when 
he founded Dancing Dragon in 1992. 
While many Western practitioners 
orient a house using its front door, 
Nodelman insists on using the lo pan, 
the traditional Chinese compass with 
dozens of numerals, characters, and 
I Ching symbols ringing its magnetic 
needle. He considers many Western 
feng shui consultants to be quacks. 
He says that some carry suitcases 
filled with wind chimes, crystals, 
and mirrors to sell to gullible clients. 
“There’s a certain practitioner where 
everyone, whether they need it or not, 
gets a bamboo flute over the 
doorway,” he said. 
“We Westerners, we like a 
quick fix. We like that sort of 
magic pill. ‘I need a job; tell me 
where to hang the crystal,’ ” he 
said. “Some people say crystals 
and mirrors are the aspirin of 
feng shui… I mean, look, I’ll use 
crystals or mirrors as cures, but 
I just won’t use them every time, 
and I’ll be cautious about it.” 


As a boy, Nodelman tried to 
hypnotize his friends on the 
playground at recess. He would 
spin in circles to make himself 
dizzy, developing an interest in 
“altered perceptions and how 
your environment affects that.” 
He found kits for strobe lights 
at RadioShack and assembled them in 
complex patterns of light and sound. 
“I’d fairly regularly blow fuses in 
my parents’ house as a kid,” he said. 
When he got a little older, Nodelman 
began to experiment seriously with 
meditation. Decades later, he still can’t 
help scrutinizing the world around 
him and imagining it differently 
composed. He never sees anything 
whole without also grasping how its 
parts could combine more elegantly.


Nodelman grew up in New 
Haven, like his father, Stewart, and 
grandfather, Otto, who founded 
the New Haven Chair Company in 
the 1950s. Nodelman worked there 
summers in high school. After Otto 
died in 1967, Stewart bought the 
business. Nodelman says he inherited 
his father’s eye for design and aptitude 
for construction, though Stewart is 
skeptical of feng shui. Nodelman 
doesn’t blame him. “Some people are 
seekers, and they’re always looking for a 
new awareness,” he said. “Some people 
are just happy with the awareness they 
have.” Nodelman considers himself 
a seeker. After studying industrial 
design for a couple years at Syracuse 
University, he transferred to Southern 
Connecticut State University to be 
nearer the factory. He dropped 
out of college halfway through 
his junior year in order to work 
there full-time, secretly relishing 
the act of rebellion.


By 
then, 
business 
had moved to a new factory. 
Nodelman told me the original 
factory near Fair Haven was 
demolished by Richard Lee, an 
ambitious New Haven mayor 
who sought to renew the city 
by 
manipulating 
its 
spatial 
arrangements in the sixties. 
As Nodelman remembers, his 
family was told that the land 
was needed for a new school, 
which was never built. Dick 
Lee’s infamous failed experiment 
in spatial planning was the 
Richard C. Lee Highway, also called 
the Oak Street Connector. The low-
income Oak Street neighborhood was 
razed to make way for this highway. 
The displacement of an estimated 
two thousand five hundred eighty-
seven people and two hundred fifty 
businesses haunted their former 
community, 
which 
sank 
further 
into decay. The highway was never 
completed.


As his hometown absorbed these 
structural 
dissonances, 
Nodelman 
developed an interest in harmonious 
design. He eventually started his 
own business repairing furniture. His 
wife, Sandra, an engineer with an 
open mind, introduced Nodelman to 
various alternative practices—t’ai chi, 
acupuncture, herbology—and these 
experiences led him to feng shui. 
He felt an immediate affinity for the 
trends his wife had tested; he has used 
a naturopathic healer whom Sandra 
once visited as his general practitioner 
for more than twenty years. “I had 
this hot moment,” he explained, 
“when I realized that the chi that 
you’re working with in your body is 
the same as the chi that you’re working 
with in a space.” When the interior 
designers Nodelman knew through 
his business learned about his interest 
in feng shui, they began to solicit his 
opinion. He decided to seek more 
training and charge for his services. 
Nodelman is now certified to perform 
space clearing and clutter clearing 
ceremonies in which he uses candles, 
incense, and special rites to exorcise 
lingering, negative “predecessor chi.” 
“The earth has energy,” he told 
me. “The earth has memories.”


has 
always 
lived 
around New Haven. He says he has 
hometown pride for this city, which 
has always been peculiar in its physical 
space. While other colonial cities 
like Boston grew organically around 
geographic features—streets twisting 
crazily to follow the course of rivers—
its original nine square blocks made 
New Haven the first planned city in 
the colonies. The ancient Chinese 
used feng shui to plan cities that would 
fit into the existing natural landscape, 
but nothing in nature takes the shape 
of a three-by-three grid. Chi tends 
naturally to spiral—as in seashells, or 
tornadoes.


Westerners usually expect feng 
shui consultants simply to shuffle 
sofas and mutter mysticisms, but in 
fact practitioners have always applied 
their art to larger canvasses than 
interior design. Beijing, Nanjing, 
Luoyang, and Xian, four major 
ancient Chinese cities, were 
chosen for their lucky locations 
and laid out carefully along axes 
that run north to south. Rules 
for auspiciously arranging cities 
were so well codified that a 
Chinese emperor ignored them 
at his own risk. Planned cities 
are often the places where the 
human desire to control the 
environment reaches its fullest 
potential for success and for 
failure.


The Air Rights Garage on 
York and North Frontage Streets 
is a gargantuan parking garage 
built to straddle the Oak Street 
Connector. Instead, the highway 
dead-ends right before it. A section of 
York Street lined by a bodega and a 
couple of fast-food places bisects the 
garage. It is always dark there because 
of the cement mountain overhead. 
Nodelman and I recently walked to the 
Air Rights Garage and looked down 
into the cavernous pit underneath, 
where the highway was supposed to 
run. I wanted to know how Nodelman 
could account for his hometown’s 
predicament. “They weren’t thinking 
about people and nature when they 
were doing this,” he said. “They 
were thinking of engineering and 
construction and traffic flow.”


Dick Lee began to raze the Oak 
Street neighborhood in 1957, three 
years before Nodelman was born. 



**Title: A Parking Lot in New Haven**
**Author: Jacqueline Feldman**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
43
Spring 2012
Nodelman recalled that this area—
past the parking garage, beyond 
the unfinished highway’s premature 
end—remained an unused no-man’s 
land for decades, wracked by sha chi, 
or negative energy. Now, the area 
between North Frontage and Legion 
Streets is a parking lot that seems to 
stretch from Dwight Street to the 
horizon. I had the sense that the 
massive lot is never completely filled. 
Residents of the former Oak 
Street neighborhood reunited years 
after its dismemberment at Anthony’s 
Oceanview Restaurant on Lighthouse 
Road. City lore considers the area a 
battlefield where a residential culture 
was mowed down by a mayor’s 
unthinking hubris. As Nodelman 
and I stood at the brink of the great 
paved-over expanse, I asked him 
whether the parking lot between 
Dwight and Orchard Streets could use 
a space clearing ceremony. “I would 
say it does,” he said, “but that’s called 
earth clearing, and I don’t do that. I 
have a friend in Seattle who does earth 
clearing, and I usually refer people to 
him. He can do it on-site or remotely.”


I 
knew before he rang my doorbell 
that I was not Nodelman’s ideal 
client. He likes to help people who 
are desperate for his help. “I actually 
appreciate that they’re as open as they 
are,” he said of these clients. “I tell 
people, the more you tell me, the more 
I can help you. If you tell me your 
most innermost desires, then that’s 
what we can work on.” Nodelman 
recently graduated from a program 
in marriage and family therapy at 
Southern Connecticut State University 
and is licensed as a drug and alcohol 
counselor by the state of Connecticut. 
He works as a counselor a few hours 
a week at West Haven and Milford 
Youth and Family Services.	


Unlike some of Nodelman’s 
clients, I dislike talking to strangers 
about my problems. He told me 
not to clean before his visit, but I 
couldn’t resist kicking a heap of dirty 
laundry into my closet. Still, it’s hard 
to get my apartment entirely neat. My 
roommate is similarly cavalier about 
our living space. At the time, she and I 
were flummoxed by our kitchen sink’s 
failure to drain. A mud-colored liquid 
speckled by coffee grounds had welled 
up there for a few days. (Later, I rolled 
up my sleeves and plunged in an arm 
to loose debris from the drain. My 
roommate came home and shrieked 
with joy. “What did you do?” she 
asked.)


I sat Nodelman at my kitchen 
table, so he could not see the liquid in 
the sink. He found my kitchen to have 
good chi, although he recommended 
that I move the toaster next to 
the microwave in order to bundle 
together the Fire energy. Its current 
position next to the fridge created an 
undesirable juxtaposition of Water 
and Fire elements. 


Along with my completed Four 
Pillars chart, Nodelman brought along 
the tools of his trade. He keeps the 
colorful lo pan tucked under his arm, 
in a soft brown leather case. He also 
has a small black box that detects 
electromagnetic fields in volts per 
meter. He uses two metal dowsing 
rods, L-shaped and about a foot long, 
to trace geopathic stress lines. He 
holds them loosely in front of his hips 
and watches them bend apart or inch 
closer together. After he’s finished, 
he tucks the rods into a pouch of 
crushed red velvet. Nodelman said he 
can often intuit the needs of a space 
without any instruments. He was born 
with a cleft palate and retains a cut 
in his mouth that never completely 
healed. He said this slit is sensitive 
to air quality and smoke. “It’s like my 
built-in meter,” he said.


Nodelman can spend three or 
four hours on a consultation. Because 
we were short on time, he focused 
on my bedroom. He checked for 
electromagnetic fields around my 
pillow and recommended that I 

--- Page 44 ---

44
The New Journal
unplug a nearby lamp. “You can’t put a 
price on a good night’s sleep,” he said. 
He turned next to my overstuffed 
bookshelves and recommended that 
I thin the books until someone with 
two glasses of water could set them 
down. “This can be a cure for allowing 
new possibilities to come in,” he said. 
“The bookshelves are bowing from 
the weight of the books, so you could 
feel like there’s a lot of weight on 
your shoulders.” Taking in the stacked 
tomes that loomed like thunderclouds 
over my bed, I felt as though I’d 
caught myself complaining about 
a particularly arduous homework 
assignment.


Before he left, Nodelman told 
me that he once consulted a massage 
therapist who couldn’t work because 
her hands were red with eczema. 
He discovered moss growing up an 
exterior wall and recommended she 
power-wash the house. “It cleared 
right up,” he recalled.


Nodelman’s faith in small changes 
was catching. Not long after he visited 
my kitchen, I decided to move the 
toaster next to the microwave. I 
needed to shuffle around a few things, 
squishing the olive oil, vinegar, and 
knives closer together. I wedged in 
the toaster. Its sides were sticky. It 
occurred to me that the sides of 
our toaster—like the strip of floor 
under our couch—are a part of our 
apartment that my roommate and I 
have neither touched nor cleaned in 
the year and a half we’ve lived here. 
I wiped my hands and looked at the 
toaster and the microwave for several 
minutes. The larger, sleeker microwave 
reclined powerfully, leonine in its 
corner. The toaster stared back at me, 
small, white, and spunky. Eventually, 
my roommate came home.
“Do you notice anything different 
about the kitchen?” I asked finally.
“The toaster is in a different 
place,” she said.
“Do you like it?” I asked.
“I like it,” she said.
I asked her if she felt anything 
more.
“I like it a lot,” she said. “Is there 
something else different that I missed? 
It looks very nice. Is there something 
else?”


recently 
returned 
without 
Nodelman to the Air Rights Garage 
and made my way to its roof, nine 
stories up. It was warmer there than 
at street level. I took off my jacket. 
There was nothing between me and 
the sun. 


The rooftop parking lot is 
concrete, and the few pebbles 
lying around are concrete, and a 
pockmarked concrete wall about 
four feet high rims the whole space. 
I stepped over crusty old snow to the 
edge. I looked downtown, over the 
cardboard-colored AT&T building, 
over the Walgreens where once I 
overheard a man say in Spanish 
that he got his black eye in a fight. I 
could read the time on the clock atop 
Harkness Tower, the Gothic icon of 
Yale University, but the tower was 
very far away. My apartment was 
blocked by one of the twin high-
rises on Crown Street. It seemed far 
away, too. Ambulances wailed on their 
way to the nearby hospital. A breeze 
was chasing away the smell of car 
exhaust. Dust-colored birds alighted 
on the perimeter wall, chirping shrilly. 
I looked down on the spot where the 
Oak Street Connector pools into a 
roundabout planted with unflowering 
shrubs. This complicated mess of 
roads is always clogged with traffic. I 
thought some more about a people’s 
continuous efforts to control the 
land I was looking at. I imagined the 
primordial New Haven, a low, silky 
swamp. I wondered whether the city 
was doomed to failure, or whether 
its leaders simply needed to be more 
thoughtful and meticulous in planning 
their space.


Through the tall buildings of the 
Yale School of Medicine, past a few 
smokestacks that billowed chemical 
steam, I could make out a sliver of 
blue. I once asked Nodelman about 
the damage this city incurred by 
cutting itself off from the sea. “Water 
is a really strong life force,” he said. 
“If you cut off the water energy for 
people, it’s going to create a problem 
for them.” I asked him how he would 
fix New Haven. “For something this 
major, you could hang all the mirrors 
and talismans in the world and it 
wouldn’t do a thing,” he said. 


I braced myself against the low 
wall, letting the unfinished cement 
scratch my palms, and looked straight 
down. I knew I wasn’t going to fall, 
but I still felt queasy from the height.
TNJ
Jacqueline Feldman is a 
senior in Davenport College 
and a former Editor-in-
Chief for The New Journal.


**Title: A Conversation with Sarah Stillman**
**Author: Andrew Nelson**
**Page number(s): 45**

45
ENDNOTE               
A Conversation 
with Sarah 
Stillman
Reading Sarah Stillman’s resume is scary. 
Six years after she graduated from Yale 
with a Marshall Scholarship, as well as 
both Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in 
Anthropology, Stillman has written for 
The Nation, The Washington Post, 
The Atlantic.com, and The New Yorker. 
“The Invisible Army,” which The New 
Yorker published last June, is a finalist for 
a National Magazine Award. She sat down 
with The New Journal to talk about finding 
her journalistic voice.
The New Journal: How was your 
road from Yale to writing for 
magazines like The New Yorker ?
Sarah Stillman: Highly circuitous. 
I went to Oxford, where I realized 
that I could get cheap tickets to go 
travel during breaks. I started flying 
off to places where I wanted to 
pursue stories—Berlin, West Africa, 
Australia. I started doing side stories 
on the Iraq war and other issues that I 
cared about, but I quickly realized that 
super-opinionated punditry wasn’t my 
strong suit. I’m more comfortable 
with in-depth narrative and slow, 
methodical reporting—the sort of 
stuff you don’t have to turn around in 
a day for the blogosphere.


TNJ: What is your philosophy 
when you go out to get a story?
SS: Often, I start by looking for 
socially relevant stories that are at 
the margins of more widely-reported 
events 
or 
phenomena—stories, 
for instance, that emerge from the 
questions that remain unanswered by 
mainstream headlines. Then, I try to 
start scratching beneath the surface 
through reporting, making phone 
calls, showing up in the relevant places. 
I try to be open to the facts on the 
ground and the places they lead me. 
It’s amazing how often my initial, tidy 
idea of a story gets complicated or 
even totally unraveled once I actually 
show up and start poking around. 
Often, I’ll find that something far 
more nuanced and interesting is taking 
place than what I’d imagined. 


TNJ: You uncovered the story of  
an “invisible army” of  foreign 
workers at U.S. army bases, which 
was published in The New Yorker in 
June 2011. How did you know that 
that was the place that you should 
go and the story that you should 
cover?
SS: When I was at Oxford, I was in this 
Indian restaurant and my waiter heard 
my American accent and came to me 
and said, “Oh my gosh, I worked on a 
US military base and I have pictures of 
me and Jessica Simpson.” He busted 
open his phone and had all these 
pictures. He had had a really great 
experience in Iraq. He shared with 
me how many of his friends from his 
hometown also ended up there—but 
he also had colleagues who’d faced 
serious abuses and injuries. When I 
was able to go to Iraq for the first time 
in 2008, that was one of the things on 
my radar — who is this international 
workforce?


As soon as I arrived, I noticed that 
these 
workers 
were 
ubiquitous. 
Everywhere I went, they were cooking 
all of the food, they were cleaning 
the latrines, they were trucking all of 
the goods from here to there. You 
couldn’t be in Iraq and not see them. 
But I noticed that I had read very 
little about where these people come 
from. They were Indians, Bengalis, 
Fijians, and from Sierra Leone. It 
was stunning to me that we had tens 
of thousands of these people, but 
rarely read about the conditions that



**An Interview with Sarah Stillman**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
46
The New Journal
brought them there or what it was like 
for them.
TNJ: What do you think about 
the idea that there are two 
different schools of  writers and 
journalists now —  the kind that 
likes technology and the kind that 
doesn’t like putting a personality 
online?
SS: As a journalist today, you’re 
expected to put yourself in the 
public sphere and feel comfortable 
participating 
in 
instantaneous 
debates and conversation, in a way 
that wouldn’t have been possible ten 
years ago. That’s really exciting and 
energizing in a lot of ways, to be able to 
be in touch with one’s readership and 
get immediate feedback and engage. 
But I think it also runs counter to a 
lot of what draws me to journalism. 
I’ve never felt particularly articulate 
off the cuff, and I really appreciate 
the time to choose my words carefully. 
The translation process between what 
is going on in my head and what is 
coming out of my mouth is never 
happening at 100 percent or even 70 
percent efficiency. So being able to 
spend time calibrating my words is 
useful.
TNJ: Does it feel like there is a 
stronger population of  tech-savyy 
journalists now?
SS: I think so, because a lot of 
publications really want you to be 
a part of it. Even writers that are 
resistant, like the Jonathan Franzens 
of the world, have reluctantly resigned 
themselves to the fact that every now 
and then they may find themselves 
participating in a videocast or a live 
author chat.
TNJ: Do you think the place for 
long-form journalism is changing?
SS: I’m so excited about some of 
the new platforms that are providing 
journalists 
with 
the 
opportunity 
to try out hypertextual modes of 
storytelling. Places like The Atavist 
where people are experimenting with 
integrating audio and visuals into the 
arc of a longform story. There are 
some unbelievable new opportunities 
for thinking about how we tell stories 
creatively. 
TNJ: 
Do 
you 
see 
yourself  
integrating multimedia into your 
pieces in the future?
SS: Multimedia offers some new 
tools, I think, for getting out of your 
own way as a narrator. You’ll always 
have the complication of being the 
person who’s editing things down and 
choosing what parts of someone’s own 
self-presentation make it out there. 
But multimedia allows for a degree 
of immediacy that wasn’t available to 
storytellers before. It’s like creating a 
direct line between sources and reader. 
I’m such a Luddite in a lot of ways 
but I’m trying to embrace these new 
vehicles, partly because I think they’re 
interesting and meaningful. 
What 
has 
been 
most 
embarrassing in your career?
SS: I’ve written a lot of things that 
make me cringe. It’s so complicated 
that for young writers on college 
campuses now, no one has the 
opportunity to learn in private, 
because of the Internet. Part of 
learning to be a journalist these days 
is learning to accept the fact that your 
opinions will change over the course 
of your lifetime and you have to feel 
comfortable recognizing that your 
thoughts are evolving. Yet another 
reason why it’s good to have a great 
editor. 
TNJ.


**YALE UNIVERSITY**
**Author:  Yale University Judaic Studies Program**
**Page number(s): 48**

48
Y A L E  U N I V E R S I T Y  
Judaic Studies 
Program Colloquium 
2 Lectures 
 
“Scriptural Authority  
and the Life of the Text” 
Presented by 
Hindy Najman, Associate Professor 
Religious Studies & Judaic Studies 
Yale University 
& 
“Where You Take Words:  Sites of Translation 
in Contemporary Israeli Poetry” 
Adriana X. Jacobs, ACLS Postdoctoral Fellow 
Comparative Literature &Judaic Studies 
April 17, 2011 
4:00pm—7:00pm 
Judaica Collection Reading Room 
Sterling Memorial Library (SML 335) 
A light kosher dinner will be served 
For more information, please contact Nanette Stahl at  
(203)432-7207 or nanette.stahl@yale.edu 
 
This Colloquium is sponsored by the William & Miriam Horowitz Fund

