Publication date: 02/83
Volume 15, Issue 5

**Yale Art School: A Critical Look**
**Author: Ldi4 Wardwell**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The comparatively higher faculty/ 
student ratio at Yale permits small 
classes, individual attention and cons-
tant interaction between students and 
artists. T enured professors know all of 
their students, graduate and under-
graduate. This intimate environment 
would seem to be a terrific advantage, 
because it provides direct and consis· 
tent interaction with distinguished ar-
tists. 


Members on the Committee for Art, 
however, often found it oppressive and 
claustrophobic. Imna Arroyo, who 
graduated from the Pratt Institute and 
from the Yale School of Art, felt that 
the interaction at Yale was based on a 
preference system. "The favoritism 
was very clear," she said, "and the con-
sequence was a kind of value system-
a preference for certain forms of ex-
pression, while other forms were not 
respected." 


Another consequence of the Art 
School's small size is a feeling of isola-
tion. Alumni on the Committee for Art 
agreed that teachers did not bring in 
current artistic trends from the out-
side. "At Pratt in New York," Arroyo 
said, "current happenings are available 
to you. At Yale, there is a sense of 
isolation, because you become such a 
part of the Art School." 


Students who were not involved 
with the exhibit in New York express a 
different attitude. Some are aware of 
the isolation, but find solutions by 
seeking greater exposure elsewhere. 
They do not expect the Art School to 
bring outside happenings to its stu-
dents. "You can always go to New 
York, said Ruth Santer, an art major 
who graduated last year. Santer also 
dealt with the problem of isolation by 
attending the Art School's summer 
program in Norfolk. There she learned 
about new artists which many of her 
teachers never mentioned. 


Others go further, suggesting that 
art students are responsible for getting 
what they expect out of art school . "It's 
up to you whether you come out ful-
filled as an artist," said Barnaby Fitz-
~rald, a second ye.ar graduate student 
1? p~inting. "It is not solely the respon· 
s•blluy of the school." Fitzgerald, who 
~~~eves greater exposure to recent ar-
tistic trends is the duty of the student 
who seeks it, does not feel isolated at 
Yale. He said, "We're not spoon-fed 
here." 


Individual and class critiques, made 
possible by the small student and facul-
ty population, are a major part of 
Yale's undergraduate and graduate art 
programs. The Art School catalogue 
states, "we attempt to provide an 
educational context within which ad-
vanced students . . . can explore the 
horizons of their own talents in the 
midst of an intense critical dialogue 
... generated by their peers and by a 
faculty made up of experienced artists 
of acknowledged accomplishment." 


This method refines skills and trains 
the eye of the art student. Every week, 
several students display their work, 
allowing other students and teachers to 
make evaluations. 


Some alumni question the value of 
these "crits." Members of the Commit-
tee described them as the worst exper-
iences of their time at Yale. One car-
toon in the show was an illustration of 
one of these sessions: three fat teachers 
are sitting down and laughing, while a 
secretary takes notes. The student who 
is presenting his work kneels submis-
sively before them, while the frightened 
next-in-line dashes to the door. Bird 
Brenner, '82, descnbed a friend who 
started skipping classes regularly 
because she was terrified of these crits. 
"In critiques, students were en-
couraged to back stab and back bite 
each other, and we weren't allowed to 
collaborate," Brenner stated in the ex-
hibition catalogue. "If you didn't shoot 
down other students, you were later 
shot down yourself." 


Other students see value in these ses-
sions, despite their immediate charring 
effects. Santer agreed that students 
were often put down. "You could get 
ripped to shreds," she remarked. The 
older teachers at Yale are "career 
academics," she added, and they 
prepare students for an artistic career 
by forcing them to "explain and in-
tellectualize" their work through the 
crits. These teachers "treat art more 
like a science by using a traditional 
system of basic training and firm foun-
dations." While Fitzgerald complained 
that he usually found the sessions too 
short, he did recognize their impor-
tance. "You're confronted with people 
who are professionals- you discover 
what they think is genuine." 


Creativity and discipline


Many students not involved in the ex-
hibit considered such close evaluation 
a valuable privilege, but others found 
this direct confrontation threatening to 
their personal style, creativity and 
morale. But how does a school attempt 
to teach forms of artistic expression in 
a structured, disciplined way without 
stifling individual creativity? The 
School's catalogue states "the graduate 
students' primary educational exper-
ience at Yale is centered in their own 
studio activity" and is enhanced by 
"rigorous and more traditionally struc-
tured courses such as drawing or the 
relativity of color." Alumni on the 
Committee found this emphasis on 
discipline and technique oppressive. 
nique oppressive. 


One woman submitted a letter to the 
exhibit describing her experience in a 
class where she had spent three weeks 
learning how to draw an ellipse. The 
letter was completely covered with 
perfectly shaped, pencilled ellipses. Ar-
royo said she usually "avoided teachers 
who sacrificed individual creativity for 
technique," adding that the artist 
should "know technique, but should 
not let it interfere with expression." 


Members of the Committee criticize 
Yale's program because they believe 
firmly in their individual styles. Others 
see their creativity in different ways 
and do not feel threatened by rigorous, 
traditional instruction. "Yale gives you 
artistic validation," Santer explained. 
"People's 
creativity doesn't 
always 
come out best in school- they have to 
subordinate themselves to the system" 
while they are learning. She also added 
that it was nice to have "firm boun-
daries" while in school, because "the art 
world at large is somewhat formless." 


For Fitzgerald, creativity means "the 
incentive to produce," and he agreed 
that criticism of a student's work could 
stall this incentive. The Committee 
members referred to creativity as a 
form of personal. individual expres-
sion, but Fitzgerald said, "This is the 
part I care about least. I don't care 
about my style or manner." 


Euro-centrlsm


The School of Art is not explicitly 
Euro-centric 
in 
its 
approach 
to 
teaching art and art history, but An-
drew Forge, former dean of the Art 
School, admits, "There is no attempt to 
teach African art, for example. This 
approach is not imposed," he said, "but 
it is just what the School is about. T~e 
studio practices in the European tradi-
tion." The School, founded in 1869, is 
the oldest university-connected art 
school in the country. After more than 
100 years of European 
and New 
England traditions, this approach m_ay 
be difficult to change, especially wath 
such a small administration. 


Current students do not often speak 
out against this aspect of the School, 
although they are aware of it. Some a!e 
dissatisfied with it, but they realize hJ·


The bond between those 
objects was clearly more 
political than artistic. 
tie can be done about it during the two 
years they are here. Most people ex-
pect all of Yale's departments to be 
western-influenced. 


"It is natural for any school of the 
western world to be Euro-centric," Fitz-
gerald said. "It is tremendously preten-
tious 
and 
condescending (for 
a 
Western school] to attempt to under-
stand the cultures that produce African 
and Oriental art." Christine G ist, a se-
cond year student in sculpture, said 
she assumed Yale would be Euro-
centric, but added that this "could be 
problematic for people with different 
backgrounds." 


Imna Arroyo is Puerto Rican. While 
at Yale, she was particularly sensitive 
to the aesthetic preferences of the facul-
ty because of her different background. 
She said that many teachers "had a 
hard time accepting where my work 
was coming from." She believes that an 
artist perceives space and makes a 
composition based on a personal sense 
of aesthetics. "You have to recognize 
that there is a multiple set of aesthetics, 
not just one," she explained. "One's 
cultural background is characterized 
by certain 
preferences ... When 
you're on the island, you have a lush, 
green background, 
and houses, 
clothing, appear in primary colors. But 
an urban, Northern background is 
grey, and those colors pop out- they 
get vibrant." Arroyo felt that many 
teachers used an emotional basis for 
criticizing her work, and because of 
their own ways of classifying art, could 
not understand the significance of her 
background. 


Samia Halaby's painting for the ex-
hibit was large, vibrant and colorful. It 
dearly did not draw from any previous 
Western European tradition. On the 
same wall, only a few feet away, was 
an etching by a graduate alumna, en-
titled "5th Avenue." The perspective 
was mathematical, the lines were 
perfectly straight and the colors were 
shades of grey and white. Although the 
School of Art slept fitfully during this 
trial, it had not failed to leave its own 
mark on those who challenged it.