Publication date: 11/68
Volume 2, Issue 3

**Columbia white paper**
**Author: Robert D. Schulzinger**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Cox Commission Report: Crisis at Columbia: Report of the Fact-Finding Commission Appointed to Investigate the Disturbances at Columbia University. A Vintage Special, 222 pp. 
The events of last April and May at Columbia University provided an institution which yearns for more public recognition with enough publicity to last it a decade. 
Now that we have been treated to a nationally televised spectacular of policemen having a ball with young people in Chicago, the public memory of the Columbia uprising has dimmed. The recent publication of Crisis at Columbia, the report compiled by the faculty-appointed commission headed by former Solicitor General Archibald Cox, should refresh our recollection of that turbulent period. The report is likely to become the definitive work for parents, university administrators and non-radical students on what happened at Columbia last spring. As such it is flawed, for unlike Mark Twain, who told the truth with some stretches, the Cox report tells the truth with some contractions. 

When the Cox Commission conducted hearings last spring, the leaders of the two Columbia groups most involved in the crisis, Students for a Democratic Society and the Student Afro-American Society, refused to participate, claiming that the Commission was unrepresentative of the University and was bound to compile a report favoring the particular interests of the faculty. There is some merit in this charge. The report emphasizes as a cause of unrest Columbia's relative decline in four years from fifth to seventeenth place among American universities in faculty salaries. It does not suggest, however, that any student seized a building in order to get his professor a bigger paycheck. 

Some students might find the style of the report patronizing. Even a master of academic cliche would sound foolish making statements like, "The present generation of young people in our universities is the best informed, the most intelligent, and the most idealistic this country has ever known." Similarly, the drafters of the report try to get with it by speaking of the police "bust" and Columbia "jocks." The Columbia Spectator had the good sense to write about the "raid" and the "athletes." 
Robert Schu/zinger, a second-year graduate student in American history, is an alumnus of Columbia and was on the Morningside Heights campus when the buildings were occupied. 

Nevertheless, the report does make a sincere effort to tell what happened and why and to suggest what Columbia (and other universities) ought to do to prevent similar outbreaks in the future. It is most forthright in explaining what the uprising was not. No sinister conclave in Maryland of left-wing mischief-makers plotted the uprising, as an article in the New Republic averred. Nor was Mark Rudd, the chairman of SDS at Columbia, in any sense a revolutionary mastermind. The report makes it quite clear that Rudd, the other SDS leaders and the leaders of the Student Afro-American Society were surprised by the rapid turn of events and had to make decisions after being confronted with unplanned situations. 

The seizure of five buildings was a spontaneous act made possible by a long history of student frustrations and unhappiness reinforced by administration intransigence and blundering. The fact that nearly a thousand students participated in the sit-ins and that substantially more honored a student strike after police came to clear the campus is correctly cited as proof that whatever happened was not the work of an insignificant band of agitators and firebrands. 

If unscrupulous radicals did not engineer a destructive confrontation with the university authorities, then what caused the spring rising? Part of the explanation is familiar-too familiar. The Cox Commission says that we live in disrupted times, that young people question old values, that the war in Vietnam and the civil rights struggle have aroused our youth, and that, besides, there seems to be a world-wide rising of the young against the old. General explanations like this explain nothing. 

When the report speaks of the particular conditions within a single urban university which caused it to blow up, we begin to understand how a climate of mutual distrust and even contempt developed at Columbia. Three issues were involved in the Columbia crisis: (1) the University's expansion and its relations with its neighbors in Morningside Heights and Harlem, (2) the University's relations with the defense establishment and (3) the University's structure and the role students legitimately should have in planning university policies. 

Like other urban universities wishing to expand facilities, Columbia has come into sharp conflict with its neighbors, and the report makes a valiant effort to refrain from evaluating the justice of Columbia's expansion plans. It can see no harm in the gymnasium Columbia planned to construct in Morningside Park. It believes that the University was not freely grabbing public lands and finds that the amount of space it allocated for the use of community members was adequate. It does indicate, however, that only in 1966, i.e. eight years after the original plan for the gym was drafted, did university officials meet with community leaders to discover what their objections to the gym were. 

Columbia's general policy of improving the quality of the Morningside Heights neighborhood by removing the neighbors gets rougher treatment in the report. During the bearings last spring witnesses testified that Columbia had evicted some seven thousand residents, mostly low-income blacks, Puerto Ricans and aged whites, from Morningside Heights in the last ten years. The Commission was particularly shocked by the refusal of Columbia's affiliated Pharmacy School to honor a university pledge to relocate the people it displaced. The Commission refused to judge the merits of the testimony of those witnesses who claimed that the University had no interest in what happened to the residents of Morningside Heights. It did note the obvious strength of conviction of those who testified. The Commission did observe generally that a university cannot be run as an ordinary business venture-a truth that Columbia, with its real estate policies and its farcical activity as a cigarette filter manufacturer, apparently never learned. 

The Cox Commission found that the University's ties with the Institute for Defense Analysis were not a sufficient cause for the seizure of buildings. When the report describes the grudging manner in which Columbia administrators revealed there was a connection, the atmosphere of suspicion becomes clearer. But it takes a careful reader to glean from the report the fact that a graduate school dean once denied any university connection with I.D.A. and that the president of the University once stated that Columbia had never received money from the Central Intelligence Agency to conduct secret research. The report judges the first statement to be legitimate since not the University but only individual faculty members had contracts with I.D.A. 

President Kirk's denial of a CIA connection is found unexceptionable, since the results of the research paid for by the CIA were made public, even if the source of the money was indeed kept a dark secret. The Cox Commission says university officials were not "insincere" in their answers to student questions concerning government contracts. Perhaps they were at least "disingenuous"? 

The members of the Commission, most of whom were lawyers, were greatly concerned by the lack of formal disciplinary procedures at Columbia to assure students a role in judging their peers. Instead, all disciplinary power was jealously preserved by the president and the deans. A rule forbidding political demonstrations inside university buildings had been promulgated by President Kirk in September, 1967, in spite of opposition from a Committee on Student Life and the Columbia University Student Council. In February, 1968, the University singled out for discipline five students of a hundred who had demonstrated inside a building against the presence on campus of a recruiter from Dow Chemical. The fact that these five were leaders of SDS indicated a political inspiration behind the disciplinary procedure. 

The report criticizes the administration for having these students suspended by the dean of Columbia College instead of following the extraordinary procedure of public trial by a student-faculty-administration tribunal which had been employed a year before. The report somehow neglects to mention that the previous disciplinary hearing had been made public only after 250 students forced their way into the hearing room. 

Perhaps the report's greatest fault is its refusal to take a firm stand on the violence which occurred when police were called to clear the campus buildings on the night of April 29. Violence, the Commission concludes, was inevitable, and not too much could be done to reduce it. Only one commission member was moved to speak some hard sense about how policemen should conduct themselves. Anthony Amsterdam of the University of Pennsylvania Law School offered his opinion that, One who resists a policeman doubtless ought to be held morally accountable for the policeman's legitimate use of force to overcome his resistance. Events may also very well hold him physically accountable for creating the risk that the police force will get out of hand. I see no moral utility for taxing him, in the realm of conscience, for the policeman's use of excessive and illegitimate force. It seems to me that he may properly expect that the policeman will not use excessive force. The propriety of this expectation is not based upon factual probabilities, but upon a standard of conduct for police which society cannot afford to relax. 

By refusing to judge the conduct of the police the Commission also managed to ignore the charge raised by the Columbia Spectator that much vandalism occurred in one of the occupied buildings after the students had been cleared and only police remained inside. 

What is the Commission's solution? They appeal to students who find their university administrators transparently uncandid to show these men more civility and goodwill. To the administrators they make the modest proposal that they stop treating faculty members as employees, students as customers, critics as evil men and the surrounding community as an unhealthy swamp which will go away if it is ignored or swallowed. To all members of the University the Commission appeals for a willingness to share power and to respect opposing views. 

In the end, the Commission begs the question by proposing that the solution is greater tolerance and understanding among those concerned. If only people were nicer the world would indeed be better. The Cox Report should have been less interested in improving people and more concerned with changing institutions. The best that can be hoped today for the "new" Columbia is an institution in which the administration tolerates the students. In their turn, perhaps, students will become more skeptically amused than enraged by the inevitable administration verbal legerdemain. Maybe students will soon derive some satisfaction from knowing that a Columbia education and a sojourn on Morningside Heights makes them wise in the ways our world is run.