Publication date: DEC 2018
Volume: 51
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: Annie Rosenthal, Mark Rosenberg
- managing editor: Arya Sundaram
- senior editors: Antonia Ayres-Brown, Chris Hays, Robert Scaramuccia
- associate editors: Laura Glesby, Max Graham, Rachel Koh, Sohum Pal, Elliot Wailoo
- reporting supported by the Edward Bennett III Memorial Fund
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Lincoln Caplan, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen
- copy editors: Kofi Ansong, Yonatan Greenberg, Sofia Laguarda, Sara Luzuriaga, Eliana Swerdlow
- design editors: Merritt Barnwell, Meher Hans, Sam Oldshue, Rachel Wolf
- photo editors: Robbie Short, Vivek Suri
- web developer: Philippe Chlenski


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- THE ROAD BACK - Elliot Wailoo
- THE PEOPLE AND THE POLLS
- THE KID’S SPEECH - Antonia Ayres-Brown
- DEMOCRACY, DEMYSTIFIED — Carina Gormley
- GODSPEED — Zola Canady
- DIVERTED — Jack McCordick
- HOPEFULLY YOU’VE LEARNED KOREAN BY NOW — Julia Hedges
- SONNET TO THE HUMMINGBIRD — Kinsale Hueston
- I WAS A FEATURED SPEAKER AT GILMORE GIRLS FAN FEST 2018  — Lily Dodd


**Title: THE ROAD BACK**
**Author: Elliot Wailoo**
**Page number(s): 26**

Students forced to withdraw from Yale have seventy-two hours to leave campus. To return, they must navigate a convoluted process.


<br>

**Title: THE PEOPLE AND THE POLLS**
**Author:  (Multiple authors)**
**Page number(s): 8**

Five TNJ reporters fanned out across New Haven to capture scenes from this year’s pivotal election.



**Title: THE KID’S SPEECH**
**Author: Antonia Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 16**

For decades, pediatric speech therapist Wendy Marans has fixed stutters and lisps in her Church Street office.



**Title: DEMOCRACY, DEMYSTIFIED**
**Author: Carina Gormley**
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title: GODSPEED**
**Author: Zola Canady**



**Title: DIVERTED**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 12**

A new model of policing has reduced recidivism in Seattle and Albany. But a year after New Haven adopted a similar program, community leaders say the city has fallen short.



**Title: HOPEFULLY YOU’VE LEARNED KOREAN BY NOW**
**Author: Julia Hedges**
**Page number(s): 22**



**Title: SONNET TO THE HUMMINGBIRD**
**Author: Kinsale Hueston**
**Page number(s): 25**



**Title: I WAS A FEATURED SPEAKER AT GILMORE GIRLS FAN FEST 2018**
**Author: Lily Dodd**
**Page number(s): 33**



**Title: DEMOCRACY, DEMYSTIFIED**
**Author: Carina Gormley**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
O
ne evening in late September, I walked 
into the Aldermanic Hearing Room on the 
lower level of the New Haven Hall of Records. 
The room’s walls were lined with maps, planners, 
and varnished wood trim. Michael Harris leaned 
against a table as he chatted with the people gath­
ered at the front of the room. When all twenty-six 
students had arrived, Harris pointed to a city map 
and requested that we each find our ward. Then, 
he thanked us for coming, and class began.


Harris was leading a session of Democracy 
School, an initiative founded by then-New 
Haven mayoral assistant Kate McAdams in 2002 
to provide New Haven residents an opportunity 
to learn about the workings of city government. 
The free, eight-week, application-based course 
hosts just over two dozen New Haven residents 
each fall. Each class session focuses on a specific 
city department, and Harris, who has run the pro­
gram since 2015, invites relevant officials and city 
residents to discuss their work. Harris also serves 
as Special Assistant to Mayor Toni Harp, and 
was consequently well-positioned to explain the 
basics of governance and city funding and lead 
discussions on emergency services, New Haven’s 
education system, and city neighborhoods. A red-haired man with clear eyes and a perpetual grin, 
he is an enthusiastic teacher. “Did you know that 
New Haven has thirty alders?” he asked during 
an informational presentation at the Tsai Center 
for Innovative Thinking in May. “That’s crazy. 
Almost no city in this country has close to that 
many elected officials representing the interests 
of their constituents.” Inspired by that presenta­
tion, I applied for the 2018 session and in the fall, 
I joined Democracy School’s sixteenth class.


This fall’s course underscored the challenges, 
big and small, that drive the work of city officials. 
During one lesson, Doug Housladen, the Direc­
tor of New Haven’s Transportation, Traffic, and 
Parking Department, told students that only 27 
percent of jobs in the Greater New Haven area 
are within a one-way 90-minute commute from 
New Haven on public transit. Much of the prob­
lem, he explained, is in the city’s excess of bus 
stops: 4,000 in a region with an estimated need 
for only 2,500. As busses make unnecessary stops, 
commutes drag on and on.


The classroom also provides a space for resi­
dents to discuss the tensions of life in a highly 
segregated, budget-strapped city. One student, a 
woman in her forties who works with substance 
abuse rehabilitation services in New Haven, 
asked Maurine Villani, a tax collector who pre­
sented during one class this fall, about the city’s 
contracted tow-truck companies. “I’ve lived in 
New Haven all of my life, and in many different 
types of neighborhoods in the city,” she said. “It 
seems like your vendors disregard tax-delinquent 
vehicles around Yale—and I know that they’re 
tax delinquent—yet tow lots of the vehicles, even 
non-tax-delinquent ones, in neighborhoods that 
are far from Yale. They took my car once, and 
it wasn’t tax delinquent,” she said. Villani didn’t 
quite know what to say.


Nearly every class discussion of the Board of 
Alders or the city budget this fall circled back to 
the frustrating nature of “functional home rule.” 
In the context of New Haven, functional home 
rule means that the city has limited autonomy 
over its legislative processes because municipal 
rules are largely defined by the state. For exam­
ple, the Connecticut Constitution limits cities’ 
tax revenue-raising power to property taxes––an 
issue Harris and four city officials raised during 
the second class. This limit on taxes presents a 
challenge for New Haven, where 54 percent of 
local property is designated tax-exempt. Yale Uni­
versity alone represents about 2.5 billion dollars 
of non-taxable property assets; the growth of its 
property holdings continues to reduce the city’s 
potential revenue. And despite the city’s obvious 
fiscal challenges, the state continues to allocate 
fewer and fewer state funds to New Haven. The 
city’s public education system has particularly 
struggled. Its schools, which serve the largest stu­
dent population of any district in the state, faced 
a $19 million budget deficit this spring, forcing 
firings and school closures. In class, Harris and 
New Haven Controller Daryl Jones explained 
that last year, the city was forced to make these 
cuts because state and property tax revenue had 
shrunk so much.


This year’s Democracy School attendees 
ranged from high school students to an Escape 
New Haven employee to a retiree who had 
worked at a New Haven telephone company for 
decades. Some had just moved to the city, while 
others had lived in New Haven their entire lives. 
Still, the student body represented only twelve of 
the thirty wards; most students hailed from wards 
closer to downtown. To address this issue, Harris 
said he hopes to create an online curriculum that 
makes the course readily accessible.


Democracy School’s alumni include many 
young and active community members. Caro­
line Smith, who graduated from Yale in 2014, 
said the course taught her that “the foundation 
of any good project is relationship-building.” 
She now coordinates New Haven Bike Month, 
participates on several city committees, and 
co-founded Collab, which helps local residents 
pursue entrepreneurship. Democracy School 
helped her form connections to local officials and 
students, facilitating her community-based work, 
she said. Johnny Shively, a 2015 Yale graduate, 
works for SeeClickFix, an app that allows users 
to report non-emergency issues, such as problems 
with infrastructure. He told me that learning the 
terminology of city governance has helped him 
engage with New Haven politics. John Martin, 
the founder of the popular Bradley Street Bicycle 
Co-Op, said that he tries to informally foster the 
program’s values—connectivity and agency—at 
the Co-Op. The course, he said, gave him the 
confidence and agency to serve as a community 
leader. In the face of massive economic chal­
lenges, former students are waging efforts to cre­
ate economic opportunity, to help the city run, 
to bring people together. If New Haven is “a city 
that is fighting for itself,” as Caroline Smith put it, 
Democracy School is evidence of the city’s hopes 
for victory—and the stalemates its residents face.


DECEMBER 2018


—Carina Gormley is a junior 
in Morse College.



**Title: GODSPEED**
**Author: Zola Canady**
**Page number(s): 6**

T
rinity sits with her manicured hands folded neatly, 
flanked by her fellow Christian motorcyclists on a 
black leather couch. Mary Magdalene, Zephaniah, and II 
Timothy sit to her left; Sheba and Eve to her right. 
“I like to wear pumps when I ride,” Trinity says. “My hus­
band doesn’t like it, but I like the look.” Sheba, whose name 
appears on a black, diamond-bedazzled headband and in a 
tattoo in Gothic lettering on her right arm, laughs in agree­
ment. “I wear a dress with leggings on my bike all the time.”


Each motorcyclist wears a bright red shirt under a leather 
vest embroidered with a rider name (“Zephaniah”), a leader­
ship position (“Road Captain”), and various patches ranging 
from crosses to quotes like “Christians aren’t perfect...just for­
given.” The back of each vest is emblazoned with a canary-yel­
low Bible inscribed with Matthew 28:19-20 and a crest that 
reads, “Rydas 4 Righteousness: Motorcycle Ministry.”


Trinity (legally, Melanie Perry) is the president of the Con­
necticut chapter of Rydas 4 Righteousness. To put it simply, 
members say, R4R is “a church on wheels,” bringing Chris­
tianity to communities by motorcycle rather than requiring 
individuals to come to church themselves. R4R was founded 
in 2002 by Trinity’s husband, Solomon (legally, Arthur Perry), 
who is currently the ministry’s national president. Now in its 
sixteenth year, R4R maintains chapters in Ohio, North Caro­
lina, and Connecticut.


Riding makes spreading the word of God far easier for the 
eighteen-member chapter, and allows them to bring a new 
approach to traditional ministry work. “I wanted to be that 
light,” Sheba says. “I just wanted to be different.” Eve, a 
member with black, thick-rimmed glasses, short, dyed-blonde 
hair, and glittering diamond hoops, echoed her sentiment. “I 
thought that combining ministry and motorcycles, because 
[each is] just something that I’ve always had a love for—it’s 
just the best thing since running water for me,” she says.


As a co-ed, mostly Black motorcycle club, R4R challenges 
what people see in movies like Hell Ride and Wild Hogs and 
hear in songs like “Motorcycle Man”—motorcycle culture is 
typically portrayed as non-religious, male, white, and feloni­
ous. The women of R4R defy stereotypes. “Just by seeing a 
female on a bike, [spectators] are going to stop me, and they’re 
gonna wanna know, ‘Wow. You’re a woman, you’re riding a 
bike. Why?’ Then I get into my name, then I get into my 
Scripture, and then it opens up the door for ministry,” says 
Trinity.


The ministry’s members primarily focus on prayer and 
community outreach. Over the past five years, R4R has held 
a back-to-school backpack drive, built homes for Habitat For 
Humanity, given away turkeys and hams on Thanksgiving, 
and sponsored a “Lupus Ride” to raise donations for the Amer­
ican Lupus Foundation. As for prayer, the ministry readily 
assembles when others call on them. “I wanna say we’re like 
first responders,” Eve says. Her fellow members murmur in 
agreement. Other motorcycle groups call on R4R when prayer 
is needed, and the group comes to people’s homes to pray for 
family members who have died.


R4R’s biggest event by far is its “Annual Bike Blessing” 


A group of Connecticut motorcyclists is spreading the Gospel on wheels. 

photos by Robbie Short



**Title: Riding with R4R**
**Author: Noah Macey and Zola Canady**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 7
DECEMBER 2018
weekend held for the last fifteen years and attended by Motor 
Cycle Clubs (MCs) from all over the country. Trinity explains 
that other clubs typically will not come to an event held at 
a church, out of fear of being judged by churchgoers for a 
lifestyle of drinking, smoking, and swearing. So R4R holds a 
prayer service in New Haven’s Career High School instead. 
Trinity says that even though other MCs “don’t ‘do church,’” 
they never fail to attend.

Other motorcycle groups differ from R4R not only in reli­
gious disposition, but also in their treatment of male and 
female riders. “Because we’re a motorcycle ministry, we’re 
kind of separated from protocol, from the [motorcycle club] 
world,” Trinity says. In many other clubs, men and women 
ride separately, she says.

Eve adds that although more women ride today, she shared 
the road with far fewer female riders when they first organized 
their motorcycle ministry. “When we started sixteen years ago, 
if you saw a woman on a motorcycle, you questioned their 
sexuality,” Eve says, prompting Sheba to exclaim, “Somebody 
asked me that yesterday! He said, ‘Are you gay?” I said, ‘No.’ 
He said, ‘I thought all women on bikes were gay.’ I was like, 
‘What?’” Once, while surveying bikes at a Harley-Davidson 
dealership with her husband, a man approached Eve and 
asked, “‘Did your husband get the sissy bar put on the back 
for when he’s riding you?’ I just looked at him and laughed,” 
Eve remembers. “I said, ‘Riding me? I rode that bike off the 
showroom floor.’” 

Before Trinity joined R4R, she was apprehensive about 
riding. She didn’t think it was possible for women who rode 
motorcycles to also be feminine. Yet, from the moment Trin­
ity learned to ride, she was hooked. “Now, I’m one of those 
women,” she says. “It became my serenity.”

When Trinity passed her license exam, she was sure to tell 
her husband that she’d beaten his score. “He said, ‘I don’t 
believe you can ride.’ I said ‘Pull your bike out,’” Trinity 
recalls. “I had hair rollers in my hair, I had bedroom slippers 
on. He was like, ‘You can’t ride with bedroom slippers on.’ I 
said, ‘Watch me.’”

Trinity began to spend all her spare time on her bike. She 
says that her dedication to riding has only grown since she 
lost her brother, also an R4R rider, to a motorcycle accident 
eleven years ago. The Ministry was out on the highway when, 
in the middle of a turn, Trinity’s brother accidentally veered 
onto the dirt. He flew off his bike. and died a month later in 
the hospital. Trinity says that her brother taught her a lot of 
what she knows about riding, and she has no intention of slow­
ing down. “I thought I would do him an injustice by stopping. 
Because he was passionate about riding. He was a rider rider.”

The passage from Matthew on the back of each motorcy­
clist’s vest reads, “Go ye therefore and teach all nations, bap­
tizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and 
of the Holy Ghost.” R4R’s motto is a corollary to the passage: 
“reaching the lost, one soul at a time.” As a ministry, R4R’s 
members fulfill their mission by helping freewheeling “souls.” 
But they also do this for each other. “They have come and 
cleaned my house, brought my family food, visited me every 
day in the hospital, picked my kids up from school—it’s not 
just an organization we’re part of,” Eve says. “When I say fam­
ily? Family.”
– Noah Macey is a senior
in Timothy Dwight College.
—Zola Canady is a first-year 
in Trumbull College.



**Title: The 2018 Midterms in New Haven**
**Author: Beasie Goddu, Mark Rosenberg, Will Reid**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
S N A P S H O T
  THE PEOPLE    
T
wo years into Donald Trump’s presidency, Amer­
icans are riled up. In the 2018 midterms, on Novem­
ber 6, an estimated 113 million of them flocked to the polls, 
marking the highest turnout rate in a midterm election since 
1966. That energy spread to New Haven, where turnout spiked 
by more than 7,500 votes from 2014 to 2018; 34,392 people, 
nearly 59 percent of those registered in the city, cast their bal­
lots. Some voters showed up out of concern for the state of the 
nation: people like Ananya Kumar-Banerjee, who led a group 
of Yale Democrats across the Green to register at City Hall at 
9 a.m. and said that on Election Day, she always wakes up 
in the morning without feeling tired. Others sought to weigh 
in on the tight gubernatorial race between Ned Lamont and 
Bob Stefanowski: people like Mark Cappabianca, a lifelong 
New Haven resident who is 57 and voted for the first time 
because he worries about cuts to services for people like him 
who are homeless or in recovery. The day was full of mishaps in 
the Elm City, from malfunctioning voting machines to under­
staffed polling places, and New Haven was the last of the 
state’s 169 municipalities to gets its votes tallied, sending in a 
final count three weeks after the election. But by Wednesday, 
November 7, the state results were clear. Connecticut Dem­
ocrats had prevailed in the House and Senate, and Lamont 
beat Stefanowski by 40,000 votes.

On voting day, TNJ reporters fanned out across New Haven 
to capture scenes from the election. In this series of dispatches 
from around the city, we hope to capture the energy that set 
the city’s forty polling places abuzz.

Ward 22 Alder Jeanette Morrison, who represents the 
Dixwell neighborhood, stood outside the entrance of the 
Wexler-Grant School in a sweatshirt and yoga pants at 8 in 
the morning, beaming. Morrison had been there for an hour 
and a half, she said, “educating people about the ballot.” She 
began to hold forth on the importance of voting, interrupting 
herself to hug each individual who entered as elderly neigh­
borhood residents and a smattering of Yale students trickled 
in from across the schoolyard. “Has your Jordan graduated 
high school yet? Still working 1,000 jobs? Well, tell him to 
get a move on!” Then, to me: “Sorry about that. Where was 
I? Oh. I vote because we need more money for neighborhood 
initiatives. More money for schools. When teachers are cut, 
children suffer—emotionally, too.” She paused again and 
dashed across the street to investigate after a neighbor told 
her the school didn’t know how to deal with a recent garbage 
overflow.

A few minutes later, she returned. “Connecticut has a 
good partnership,” she resumed, “between city and state. As 
Betty Morrison, my mother, would say, ‘They don’t take no 
tea for fever.’” I asked her if she felt the same way about the 
president. She laughed. “Oh, no. My mother said something 
else, too: ‘If you don’t have anything nice to say, don’t say it!’”

Abruptly, she turned back to business: a man in a leather 
jacket had somehow slipped past her hug. “Honey, do you 
know there are two sides to that piece of paper?” she asked, 
referring to the ballot. He didn’t. “Can you go back home 
and get everyone to come, and tell them there are two sides?” 
The man left. Half an hour later, he came back with a crowd.
— Beasie Goddu


Outside the glass-paneled wooden doors of the Hear­
ing Room in the basement of the New Haven Hall of 
Records, Patrick Mitchell sat sentry halfway down a 
maroon-carpeted hallway, his legs and torso folded 
into a desk that was far too small for him. Mitchell, 
who is broad-shouldered, with closely-trimmed hair, 
wore squarish, thick-framed black glasses, a blazer and 
striped button down, and white-soled tennis shoes. 
Inside the Hearing Room, Ward 7 voters snaked their 
way through the line, about fifty strong, and cast their 
ballots. As they headed back out into the cold, misty 
morning, Mitchell flagged them down, proffering a 
white slip of paper.

Mitchell, an insurance agent who lives in Fair Haven 
Heights, has conducted exit polls for Edison Research 
in each of the past three Congressional elections. 
Media outlets have relied on exit polls to bolster their 
election coverage since the ‘70s, and Edison has con­
ducted polling for the National Election Pool, a group 
of major news outlets including ABC, CBS, CNN, 
NBC, Fox News, and the Associated Press, since 2003. 
The practice may be fading; after exit polls erroneously 

--- Page 9 ---

 9
  AT THE POLLS
pointed towards a Hillary Clinton victory in the 2016 
Presidential Election, Fox and the AP dropped out of 
the Pool. But Mitchell sat dutifully, offering a sheet to 
every third voter who passed. Once they filled it out, 
confirming their ballot selections and filling out basic 
demographic information, Mitchell deposited the 
sheet into a small white box on the floor to his left.

Since he became eligible to vote in 1980, Mitch­
ell hasn’t missed an election. He describes voting as 
a “family tradition.” He hails from Montgomery, and 
his parents worked with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther 
King Jr. to register voters during the Civil Rights Move­
ment, once encountering Klansmen in rural Alabama 
on a registration drive. Later, they followed the Great 
Migration north to Connecticut. Now in their eight­
ies, they live in Georgia, where they voted for Stacey 
Abrams, who was running to be the first Black woman 
elected to a governorship. Mitchell has five children, 
four of whom are old enough to vote. On Tuesday, he’d 
called them all and told them to get to the polls.
— Mark Rosenberg

At midday, the lobby of Wilbur Cross High 
School teemed with rain-coated residents of Wards 
9 and 10, which include the East Rock neighbor­
hood, Cedar Hill, and Fair Haven. They’d come 
to cast their ballots, waiting in line beneath SAT 
prep posters and Warhol-inspired student portraits. 
Outside, the basalt face of East Rock loomed over 
the parking lot, where supporters of Ned Lamont 
had set up a tent. (Bob Stefanowski’s campaign was 
nowhere in sight.)

Standing on the damp sidewalk after voting, 
East Rock resident Deniqua Brunson said she was 
“thinking about the younger children” this Elec­
tion Day. The statement made her sound older 
than she looked, dressed in black Air Jordans and a 
gold-speckled black cap emblazoned with the word 
“Hustle” in red lettering. Brunson’s in her late twen­
ties, but she’s never been apathetic towards politics. 
In terms of political engagement, she said, “I’m like 
a ten.”

Outside her job as a surgical tech at Yale New 
Haven Hospital, she helps underprivileged kids at 
Connecticut Behavioral Health. Some of the kids 
she works with have run away from home. Others 
can scarcely go to school because they lash out at 
other students. Brunson thinks the root cause is 
often a home life made turbulent by unemploy­
ment. She wants more jobs for young people, and 
when Lamont visited the hospital to campaign ear­
lier this year, she told him so. He seemed to listen, 
so he got her vote.

The current administration also worries Brunson. 
She doesn’t like the tone Donald Trump has set 
as President. “You can’t lead the country based on 
emotion,” she said. “Twitter should be taken away 
from him.”
— Will Reid

As the workday drew to an end and the sky continued 
to emit a light drizzle, Fair Haven residents trickled 
steadily through the front entrance of John S. Martinez 
School, a low-slung building with undulating brown 
walls. Volunteers for the New Haven Democratic 
Town Committee handed out sky blue voting guides in 
Spanish and English to those parking their cars. (Fair 
Haven’s population is 67 percent Latinx, according to 
2016 numbers.) They cheered as Ward 16 residents 
entered and left. Inside, pensive voters mulled over 
their decisions in the glow of a row of booths.

Standing under the awning just outside the front 
doors, Ebony McClease and Vincenzo Ferraro, 
two strangers donning matching “I Voted!” stickers, 
attempted to find middle ground on issues ranging 
from taxation and healthcare to gun reform and immi­
gration policy.

“If it’s hatred, it’s hatred. I don’t care how you slice 
it,” McClease said. “Right now, there’s a lot of senti­
ment and language that is scary. Everybody needs to 
take a step back sometimes. What if you were in some­
one else’s shoes?”



**Two Voters, One Night**
**Author: Hailey Andrews**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Ferraro, a silver-haired former factory owner and 
registered Democrat, cast his vote for Bob Stefanowski 
in the gubernatorial race. An Italian immigrant who 
arrived to the United States thirty years ago, he feels 
gun control reform is unnecessary, approves of Don­
ald Trump’s policies thus far, and expressed disdain 
for undocumented immigrants. McClease, a Doc 
Martens-clad millennial who said she has worked in 
public service, believes America is behind the rest of 
the world in terms of affordable healthcare, education, 
immigration and gun policy. Above all, she empha­
sized how uncomfortable she feels navigating the cur­
rent political climate, especially as a person of color.
“There are other things that play into America 
besides just being fair,” she said. “There are things like 
racial inequality. That’s a real thing in America, it’s not 
made up, it exists.”

In a rare moment of agreement, Ferraro said he had 
biracial grandchildren, and he was worried about how 
they would be treated in the future. “They’re going 
to experience the world differently, and that’s sad,” 
McClease said.

As Ferraro and McClease prepared to part ways, 
they discovered that Ferraro’s wife had grown up with 
McClease’s father in New Haven. “Small world!” they 
both declared, laughing as they departed into the night.
— Hailey Andrews


**Election Day in New Haven**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

At 7 p.m., the line to register to vote at City Hall 
snaked all the way around the building’s second floor. 
Yale students in line had surrendered to the floor, open 
textbooks on their laps. Volunteers from the League of 
Women Voters and Yale Law School circulated with reg­
istration forms, boxes of Wall Street Pizza, and plastic 
cups of water. “It’s not a dinner party, it’s not rude if you 
take it,” said one, offering the final donut in a Dunkin’ 
carton to a young woman filling out her form. The food 
went fast: some in line had been waiting nearly four 
hours.

For the third year in a row, New Haven was unpre­
pared for the legion of unregistered voters who turned 
up at City Hall on Election Day. Many were Yale stu­
dents like Jack Frésquez, a sophomore in Hopper Col­
lege, who had hoped to vote in a contentious Senate 
race at home in Arizona. When he realized that his 
absentee ballot wouldn’t arrive in time, he was grateful 
to find out that Connecticut is one of just fifteen states 
that offer same-day registration. But Frésquez had been 
in line since 3:30. With just an hour to go before the 
deadline, it seemed impossible that the city could pro­
cess the hundreds of people still waiting to register.

Volunteers and city officials went into battle mode. 
Law students directed those in line to take photos of 
their registration forms and email them to a student who 
would catalogue them. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, 
a Democrat up for reelection, strode through the crowd 
in high-heeled boots and a long, striped dress, firing 
questions at officials from the Secretary of the State’s 
office over the phone. A few minutes later, speaking into 
a bullhorn, John Rose, Jr., chief counsel for the city, 
called all first-time Connecticut voters into the lobby. 
Around fifty people shuffled in. A woman with four 
small children in tow waited quietly for directions. With 
just fifteen minutes left, the announcement came: the 
higher-ups had given New Haven officials permission to 
swear these voters in and send them to the ballot boxes 
with filled-out registration forms. There was a sigh of 
relief, and the masses made their way to the voting line.

When the clock struck 8, that line still stretched all 
the way down the hall –– but its members would get 
to vote. Less fortunate were hopeful registrants who 
weren’t new to Connecticut; in the registration room, 
election moderator Kevin Arnold apologized and turned 
them away.

At 8:15, Mayor Toni Harp stood by the registration 
computers in tennis shoes and a black suit. She greeted 
me with a tired smile. She said she was glad that the 
chief counsel had found a way to make sure first-time 
voters could cast their ballots. “We’ve learned a lot from 
how many people came, and perhaps how to do a better 
job next time,” she said.

At the tables in front of her, the half-dozen women 
who had spent the day registering hundreds of people 
were finally getting to their feet. Cynthia Woods had 
been there since 5 a.m. “My eyes are burning,” she said, 
laughing. But she hadn’t lost the gentle tone she’d been 
using all day. She worked Election Day last year, too, 
she said, and she’d do it again.

“You know, the body is physically tired, but I’m just 
on such a high, seeing the process come through, seeing 
folks get excited about wanting to vote.” She smiled. “I 
think it’s really exciting.”
— Annie Rosenthal



**Upcoming Events**
**Author: Yale Institute of Sacred Music**
**Page number(s): 11**

SEPTEMBER 2018
 11
Voices from Prison
Incarcerated men re-imagine Dante’s Divine Comedy
Performed by students in Ron Jenkins’ Sacred Texts and Social Justice class
Marquand Chapel, 409 Prospect St.
Latin Vespers
Yale Voxtet and friends
Susan Hellauer and James Taylor, directors
Chant and polyphony from the European continent
Dwight Chapel, 67 High St.
The Chenaults, organ
Music of Moore, Paulus, Shephard, Briggs, and more
Great Organ Music at Yale
Woolsey Hall, 500 College St.
O Magnum Mysterium
Yale Schola Cantorum / David Hill, conductor
Music celebrating Christ’s birth from around the world
Christ Church New Haven, 84 Broadway at Elm
The World Beloved
Yale Camerata / Marguerite L. Brooks, conductor
A bluegrass mass and other works
The Congregational Church of Naugatuck, 9 Division St., Naugatuck
Cantatas of J. S. Bach
Yale Voxtet / Masaaki Suzuki, conductor
St. Thomas’s Episcopal Church, 830 Whitney Ave.
yale institute of sacred music
Upcoming Events
free and open to the public; no tickets or reservations required   ism.yale.edu
saturday
december 8
4 pm
sunday
january 13
7:30 pm
january 27
5 pm
tuesday
december 11
january 19
february 16



**Diverted**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 12**

 12
O
fficer Osvaldo Garcia rubbed his eyes 
and yawned as he slumped into the driver’s 
seat of his police cruiser. “It’s been a long day,” 
he sighed. But it was about to get much longer. 
For four hours, Garcia and I would sit idling in 
a parking lot in The Hill, a neighborhood just 
west of downtown New Haven, our only company 
the intermittent crackle of Garcia’s radio and the 
whoosh of cars careening down Columbus Ave­
nue.

Garcia is tall with close-cropped black hair, and 
muscular in his bulletproof vest and police uni­
form. Despite having joined the police force only 
six years ago, he affects the world-weariness and 
resignation of a grizzled veteran. For much of our 
evening together, Garcia groused about the police 
force’s long hours, low pay, and byzantine rules 
and regulations.

Early in his career as an officer, Garcia told me, 
he made a drug arrest almost every night, but he 
got tired of picking up so many people for minor 
infractions. Now, a new initiative from the New 
Haven city government is trying to reduce the 
number of arrests for low-level offenses. When 
Garcia is in the position to make a drug arrest, 
he has a new option: he can offer the offender a 
chance to partake in a new city program, called 
Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion, or LEAD, 
that provides a restorative alternative to the crimi­
nal justice system.

As the evening wound to a close, we hadn’t seen 
a single person come through the empty lot. But 
even if we had, Garcia admitted there really wasn’t 
much of a chance that I’d get to see the program in 
action — he and most of his fellow officers rarely 
think of using it.

A new model of policing has reduced 
recidivism in Seattle and Albany. But a year 
after New Haven adopted a similar program, 
community leaders say the city has fallen 
short.
Jack McCordick

In late 2017, New Haven announced the cre­
ation of a LEAD pilot. Based on a national model 
pioneered in cities such as Seattle and Albany, 
LEAD gives police officers the jurisdiction to 
divert low-level offenders away from the criminal 
justice system and into community based harm-re­
duction programs. The program is entirely discre­
tionary — an officer can choose whether or not to 
offer LEAD to an offender, and the offender can 
refuse the offer and opt for arrest if they so wish. 
In other cities, the model seems to be working. 
A 2017 study found that Seattle’s LEAD program 
reduced recidivism by nearly 60 percent and that 
LEAD participants were significantly more likely 
to find housing and employment. Social justice 
advocates hailed the success of LEAD in Seat­
tle as a paradigm shift in the city’s approach to 
law enforcement, especially at a time of strained 
police-community relations. LEAD in New Haven 
began with similar hopes, but in the past year, 
a combination of leadership changes, minimal 
transparency, and a lack of community involve­
ment have jeopardized the program’s success. 
LEAD’s roots in New Haven can be traced back 
to the fall of 2016, when a series of sex-work stings 
by the NHPD drew the ire of community activ­
ists, who called on the city to find a rehabilitative 
approach to addressing low-level crimes, accord­
ing to Jane Mills, a leader of the local criminal 
justice reform group People Against Injustice. 
The following spring, city officials signed a 
Memorandum of Understanding with various 
state agencies and community groups, promising 
to involve “community stakeholders and advo­
cates” and “bring their important perspectives and 
expertise to the process.” After traveling to Seattle 
to learn more about the LEAD program there, city 
officials, in the spring of 2017, applied for — and 
eventually acquired — a $75,000 grant from the 
Department of Justice. In late November 2017, 
the pilot officially began in the Downtown, Hill 
North, and Hill South neighborhoods. 
Once the program got underway, however, 
community leaders like Stacy Spell of Project 
Longevity, a Connecticut-based law enforcement 
initiative to reduce gun violence, found that the 
city was no longer receptive to their input.
 “Initially, when LEAD was exploring apply­
ing for the grant, Project Longevity was brought 
in because we are a law enforcement program as




**Title: New Haven's LEAD Program: A Year In**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 13
DECEMBER 2018
well,” Spell said. “But once the program started 
to take shape, we were never approached again.” 
Evan Serio, the director of Programming and 
Advocacy for the Sex Workers and Allies Network, 
or SWAN, said, “There was definitely a feeling 
in SWAN and several other groups that we had 
maybe been tokenized and brought in for the 
grant writing, because the city thought having a 
sex workers-led and focused group on the initial 
proposal looked really good.” 
“They took our help and didn’t give anything 
back or keep us in the process,” he added. 
In its grant application, the city promised to 
hire a LEAD Coordinator to run the program. 
The position’s primary responsibilities include 
outreach to community leaders and people who 
have experienced incarceration, homelessness, or 
drug abuse. The application promised that the city 
would fill the position within two months of the 
grant award, but by the summer of 2018 — nearly 
a year later — it had yet to hire anyone. Nor was 
there a LEAD website or even a whisper about the 
program on social media. 

And that wasn’t the only leadership void derail­
ing the program’s progress. In January 2018, just 
over a month after the program’s start date, Mar­
tha Okafor resigned as the head of the Community 
Services Administration, a city agency that coordi­
nates initiatives ranging from social services to the 
arts, and is responsible for LEAD planning efforts. 
In February, she was replaced by Dr. Dakibu 
Muley, for whom LEAD became just one of many 
new responsibilities. Spell, of Project Longevity, 
the gun violence reduction organization, told me 
he thought this vacuum in leadership caused the 
fledgling LEAD program to stall.
Indeed, throughout the early months of the 
pilot, community leaders’ efforts to glean infor­
mation about the program’s development were 
stonewalled at every turn. “We wanted to know 
how many people were being diverted and for 
what offenses, how frequently they accept it, and 
how often people feel like they know what they’re 
getting into,” said SWAN’s Serio. “[The city’s] ini­
tial response was that they couldn’t tell us because 
of HIPAA [Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act, the federal healthcare confi­
dentiality law] but it really felt like a smokescreen. 
They could very well just say that we don’t know 
and we’ll get back to you, and that would be okay 
— I understand that there are only so many hours 
a day. But it feels like they’re not even attempting 
to give us information.” In contrast, Albany pro­
gram managers proactively released a report that 
included descriptions of LEAD participants with 
identifying information redacted.
Serio told me that, despite the fact that SWAN 
does on-the-ground outreach in Fair Haven nearly 
every day and downtown at least once a week, they 
have yet to find anyone who is or was a participant 
in LEAD. To activists, this makes the city’s unre­
sponsiveness even more frustrating. 

Last June, a group of five community organiza­
tions, including SWAN, requested to meet with 
LEAD’s Operational Work Group to discuss the 
program’s lack of community involvement and 
transparency. Other than Muley, the new head of 
the Community Services Administration, only one 
member of the LEAD group came to the meeting. 
At the meeting, the activists pressed Muley to give 
them a say in hiring a new program coordinator. 
But Serio said he and the other community leaders 
were told they would just “bog the process down.” 
Though LEAD in New Haven operates out of a 
city government office, that’s not the case in most 
other LEAD cities. In Seattle, the program is run 
by the nonprofit Seattle Public Defender Associ­
ation, and in Albany it is managed by the Katal 
Center for Health, Equity, and Justice. Represen­
tatives from these organizations expressed skepti­
cism that a LEAD program run by a city govern­
ment could be effective. 

“In general, we recommend that the project is 
not managed out of a government office, so that 
community partners don’t feel like the whole 
enterprise is vulnerable to being folded into an 
elected official’s political agenda,” said Lisa Dau­
gaard, the head of the Seattle Public Defender 
Association.
Keith Brown, the Albany LEAD Project Man­
ager, echoed Daugaard’s concerns. Brown said 
that early LEAD programs like those in Seattle 
and Albany were “driven by folks who were on 
the ground, either civil rights groups, commu­
nity groups, or harm-reduction programs.” As the 
model spread around the country, however, Brown 
said LEAD became a buzzword, “one where 
money was often attached, so it then became a 
thing that municipalities and police departments 
decided to do.” 


---

**Title: New Haven's LEAD Program: A Year In (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 14**

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
In August, the CSA finally hired Cynthia Wat­
son as the LEAD Project Manager, despite a lack 
of community input. Prior to joining LEAD, she 
worked as the Administrative Director of Christian 
Community Action, a New Haven-based social 
service organization. I interviewed Watson in a 
spare conference room in the annex wing of City 
Hall, where her office is located. In person, she’s 
affable and blunt. She told me that the program 
failed to achieve some of its core objectives in its 
first year. “There was a long lag where there was 
no communication with the community,” Watson 
admitted. She added that one of her main tasks 
as Project Director is to facilitate the formation 
of a Community Leadership Team made up of 
representatives from community groups and for­
merly incarcerated or homeless people. In Octo­
ber, Watson hosted a meeting with community 
groups that she called a “critical” opportunity for 
community members to voice their questions and 
concerns about the program and one of the first 
steps in the formation of a Community Leadership 
Team.
But SWAN’s Serio is less optimistic. He criti­
cized the city’s decision to only allow one delegate 
from the Community Leadership Team, once it 
is formed, to sit in on LEAD’s Operational Team 
meetings. In other cities like Albany, Serio said, 
the Community Leadership Teams formed in 
a more “organic” way, which forced the city to 
“cede them power and oversight and meet them 
halfway.” 

Watson has yet to make a website with infor­
mation about the program’s progress. In contrast, 
the Katal Center released a comprehensive report 
after the Albany program’s first year with detailed 
information including the program’s funding, 
stakeholders, and operational successes. 

The problems plaguing LEAD in New Haven 
go beyond institutional and organizational errors. 
LEAD is primarily a law enforcement program, so 
it only works if the police officers charged with 
implementing the model buy into it. 
During our ride-along, I asked Officer Garcia if 
he actively tries to divert people to LEAD. “The 
idea of [LEAD] is really good,” he said. “It’s just 
difficult with the amount of workload we have to 
follow up on.” Garcia added that he and his fel­
low officers seldom discuss the program, and that 
Hill district manager Lieutenant Jason Minardi 
had only brought up the program in front of him 
“once or twice.” Garcia admitted he’d never even 
considered offering someone LEAD diversion. 
When asked to comment on his role in LEAD, 
Minardi told me that he was on vacation and 
no longer doing interviews about the program. 
In response to a similar request, Sergeant Sean 
Maher, the Downtown District Manager, wrote 
that since he had only recently been assigned to 
Downtown, he wasn’t able to speak about his role 
in the program.
In other cities, LEAD administrators adopted 
proactive measures for encouraging police offi­
cers to make use of the program. In Albany, for 
example, LEAD administrators identified a core 
group of officers who supported the program’s 
approach to law enforcement and encouraged 
them to actively “spread the buy-in” across the 
department, Brown explained. Albany’s program 
also just recently started sending LEAD engage­
ment specialists — the program’s social workers — 
on ride-alongs with the police. In Seattle, the city 
held regular focus groups with officers in LEAD 
neighborhoods.
From the beginning, LEAD in New Haven 
lacked the structure of feedback and accountabil­
ity that has been integral to the model’s success 
in other cities. Six months from now, the original 
LEAD grant application money will run out. At 
that point, the city may attempt to extend the pro­
gram to more neighborhoods or even across the 
entire city. But a year into the pilot, basic ques­
tions about its efficacy don’t seem to have been 
answered.
Toward the end of my ride-along with Officer 
Garcia, he asked me to reach into his glove com­
partment and pull out a pile of paperwork. As I 
pulled out the pile, I saw, smushed into the back 
of the compartment, a small stack of LEAD pam­
phlets and xeroxed articles about the program 
from the Register and Independent. 
“Funny,” he said, and then chuckled. “I don’t 
even know how those got there.”
—Jack McCordick is a sophomore 
in Branford College.





**Title: The Kid's Speech**
**Author: Antonia Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Wendy Marans’ name is a diagnostic test 
of sorts.

Section one, “wɛndi,” isn’t too hard. It can be bro­
ken down into five distinct sounds: /w/, /ɛ/, /n/, /d/, 
and /i/. They’re all articulated near the front of the 
oral tract, so the challenge is just remembering to 
connect the /n/ and /d/ consonant blends. Fortu­
nately, the two phonemes don’t occur in distant sites 
of the mouth, which is the hardest part about other 
consonant blends like “gr” or “tw.” The “nd,” sound, 
in comparison, is manageable. Both /n/ and /d/ are 
produced by placing the tip of the tongue on the al­
veolar ridge, the front roof of the mouth that reminds 
Wendy of the bumpy ridges left on a beach when the 
tide goes out.


Section two, “mærənz,” gets trickier. With seven 
distinct sounds, an /r/ wedged in the middle, and a 
voiced /z/ fricative tacked onto the end, “Marans” 
is complex enough to give any child with a speech 
impediment some trouble. For these kids, Wendy’s 
surname easily becomes “Maranth,” “Mah-ens,” 
“Mawans,” or even “Mamem.” Some parents get 
tripped up too, incorrectly placing the emphasis on 
the second syllable: “Mar-ANS.” She’s heard almost 
every possible mistake. Maybe that’s why she just goes 
by Wendy.


Wendy’s bubblegum-pink lips curl into a taut 
frown as she checks the time. Her watch stopped last 
week and though it’s now ticking again, she has been 
eyeing her wrist sporadically, as if always running a 
moment late. Her first afternoon appointment doesn’t 
begin for thirty minutes, but it’s time for her to start 
rearranging the room.


The next client is one of her tallest, so Wendy 
heaves the table onto its side and goes about shifting 
the length of each of its four legs. Wendy’s heels slip 
out of her shoes as she fidgets with the squeaky pegs, 
but she declines my offer to assist her. She’s accus­
tomed to performing this manual task solo. But I also 
get the sense that she doesn’t trust me to do it careful­
ly enough—or simply as carefully as she will.


After double-checking the notches in each leg, 
illustrations by Julia Hedges
For decades, pediatric speech therapist Wendy Marans has fixed stutters and lisps in her 
Church Street office. 

Wendy screws the pegs in place—a few inches higher 
than they were before. Her carefully-groomed bangs 
are left slightly disheveled, and I can’t help but won­
der if the ritual, which she repeats several times a day, 
is actually necessary. Yet after four decades of work­
ing as a pediatric communication disorders specialist, 
Wendy insists on this level of precision.


The laminate blue-and-grey table is the home base 
of Wendy’s lessons. It’s where they all begin, with 
Wendy sitting diagonally from each child, and where 
Wendy tries to end each hour-long session, though 
her youngest patients have a habit of wandering. It’s 
where Wendy conducts intakes to suss out articula­
tion difficulties, where she runs repetitive speech ex­
ercises and plays purposeful games when the children 
grow tired of these exercises, and ultimately, where 
most of her breakthroughs happen. But if the table 
is too tall, the child’s neck will strain upwards and he 
may not be able to see; too short, and he’ll slouch. 
Wendy even customizes the size of the plastic school 
chairs that circle the table so each child can firmly 
plant his or her feet on the floor. Teaching someone 
to communicate is not a one-size-fits-all project.


There are no diagrams of the oral tract or pamphlets 
about communication disorders displayed in Wendy’s 
office, a one-room private practice she opened in 
1997. Toys and games are Wendy’s tools, each serving 
a distinct pedagogical purpose. A glittery pinwheel 
helps children practice the controlled breath release 
necessary in strident sounds; glossy plastic micro­
phones coax mumblers into projecting. Wendy keeps 
the beige walls sparsely decorated to avoid distrac­
tions. On the window ledge by her desk sit a model 
wooden train and a miniature metal toboggan. When 
Wendy knows a client is particularly fond of vehicles, 
she usually remembers to preemptively hide them. 
Incorporating a child’s interests into a lesson plan is 
one thing, Wendy once explained, but carelessly leav­
ing a toy within reach is asking for a disturbance in 
the kid’s focus, or even a tantrum. Behind Wendy’s 
desk, pristine glass windows span the entire northern 
side of the office. Last fall, after a gust of wind once 
derailed her train of thought, Wendy glanced toward 
the windows and remarked that they were the most 
illustrations by Sam Oldshue


On Wendy’s old website, below her educational 
training and professional experience, appeared a bul­
let-pointed list of her extracurricular passions: Cello, 
Flamenco, Quilting. (The page has since been taken 
down.) Wendy handmade the office’s only notable 
décor—a large multicolored quilt that hangs by her 
desk—but she repeatedly stresses to me that she has 
made better quilts. She keeps this flawed one on dis­
play only so that she can point to something when 
children make mistakes, something that shows she 
makes mistakes too.


“They’re made to be squares and top right yellow 
one isn’t,” Wendy says, gesturing toward one of the 
two hundred and ten patches as if it’s the first thing I 
would notice. The top right yellow one hadn’t caught 
my eye, but when I walk closer, I see Wendy’s right. I 
never would have recognized the error—the patch is 
only slightly rectangular.


For most people, developing one’s voice and abil­
ity to communicate is something that just sort of 
happens. But Wendy works with kids for whom that 
doesn’t naturally occur—kids whose capacity to ver­
bally express themselves isn’t inborn, but needs to be 
taught to them. This thing that most people take for 
granted, speech, is incredibly complex, Wendy says. 
So maybe this care—her insistence on adjusting the 
table by several inches, or hanging a near-perfect 
quilt as an example of a mistake—is necessary.


Wendy’s natural speaking voice is crisp, potent, 
and unmistakably British. Having been raised and 
schooled in England, Wendy talks with broad vowels 
and delicately discards her /r/ sounds, letting them 
slip just before they settle on the tongue. Her specif­
ic dialect, Received Pronunciation, is untraceable to 
any physical region or socioeconomic class. Wendy 
attributes her speech to her grandmother, who, as a 
young woman, swore off the Derbyshire parlance—a 
regional giveaway of her own humble beginnings. 
Besides a couple adolescent nieces who’ve acquired 
the “Mockney” dialect—a middle-class London trend 
that began during Margaret Thatcher’s premiership—
everyone in Wendy’s family still speaks with Received 
Pronunciation.


In conversation, Wendy’s rich tone is almost me­
lodic, bouncing between syllables like notes, perform­
ing dynamic intervals with each clause. Her cadence 
could dwell within the five lines of a treble clef. 
When she reaches the end of a sentence, or wants 
to emphasize a point, she slows her pace and chews 
on her words, letting them resonate one by one. “I 
think…it’s a…trahhhgedy,” she said once, describing 
other foreigners’ tendency to lose their accents after 
years in the United States.


It’s easy to catch yourself intensely listening to 
Wendy—not explicitly because of what she’s saying, 
but because of how good she sounds saying it. And 
the primrose hue of her lips, a staple which some­
how always looks both girlish and elegant on Wendy, 
is perhaps her voice’s most effective billboard. Listen 
to me, it says. Watch what’s happening here.


Otherwise, Wendy’s physical presence is fairly un­
imposing. She has a small, slender frame, and the 
child-sized seat in which she conducts lessons never 
looks as miniature as it seems like it should. She reg­
ularly joins patients on the matted blue carpet of her 
office—sometimes to lie horizontally and use gravity 
to urge a child’s tongue to fall backward; other times, 
simply to conduct a lesson on the floor if an unco­
operative student strays from the table. At the end 
of eight-hour days, Wendy’s hands still flutter with 
sweeping gestures as she speaks, and her patient, lu­
pine eyes blink with purpose.


With ten minutes remaining before the appoint­
ment, Wendy agrees to show me the last unseen area 
of her office: the closet. Behind a locked wooden 
door, opaque plastic bins, phonetic diagnostic tests, 
and niche speech and language-related games are 
tightly packed from the floor to the ceiling, like a 
game of Tetris.


“Wow,” I exhale. “There are so many…”


Wendy stares into the closet and blinks, as if she’s 
unsure whether my comment was a compliment or 


When I first met Wendy roughly sixteen years ago, 
I was an extroverted kindergartener with a spitty inter­
dental lisp, biting softly on my tongue with each /s/, 
and the inability to pronounce my own name.


Section one, æntoniə, wasn’t an issue. The hardest 
part of my first name is just remembering to connect 
the /n/ and /t/ sounds, but my parents had always 
called me Anna anyway, voiding the issue of the con­
sonant blend. Section two, ɛɪrz brɑʊn, was my trouble 
spot, and until I began working with Wendy, I proudly 
introduced myself as Anna Ayrethhh-Brown to every­
one I met.


I don’t remember much about our weekly lessons 
besides the fact that Wendy rewarded me with Chee­
rios and M&Ms for maneuvering my tongue against 
the alveolar ridge. She was similar back then—same 
office, same lupine eyes, same melodic tones—and 
she taught me to fix my speech impediment by look­
ing, listening, and imitating her, just as my older 
brother, Henry, had already done with her.


Henry’s challenges were more debilitating than 
mine. As he entered elementary school, both his /r/ 
and /s/ phonemes were unintelligible, which frac­
tured his ability to communicate with peers, teachers, 
and our parents. My mother still winces whenever 
she recalls one evening when Henry asked her to read 
him a story before bed. Because of Henry’s /r/ and /s/ 
omissions, she heard him ask for a “toy,” and scold­
ed him for trying to play so late at night. Henry, des­
perate to be understood, whined in frustration, “No, 
Mom! A toe-ey!”


Henry began speech therapy with Wendy in kin­
dergarten and continued until his /s/ and /r/ sounds 
improved. Other facets of his impediment, like substi­
tuting “ch” sounds for “sh,” persisted well into middle 
school. This impairment presented itself most overtly 
on Sundays, when Henry would gab about singing in 
“shursh.” At our school’s annual book swap, where 
used titles could be traded for tokens called “chits,” 
Henry’s classmates mocked him for confidently an­
nouncing how many “shits” he had collected.


My family’s history with speech impediments, 
however, predates both Henry and me. When my fa­
ther was a child, he never mastered his “s” and “th” 
sounds. Speech therapy was well out of my grand­
parents’ financial means, so my father learned to 
mask these insecurities by slowing his speaking pace 
around certain hazardous words. As an adult, he still 
avoids “ths”—months, truths, myths.


Last year, after I began reporting this profile and 
researching speech therapy, I sat my father down for 
an impromptu diagnostic test.


“Say ‘anesthesia,’” I instructed.


“Anesthesia,” he copied back. No trouble.


“Okay,” I said. “Say ‘cloths.’”


“Closs.”


“No. Cloths,” I repeated.


“Closth.”


Betrayed by his tongue, he shrugged and left the 
room, revealing the boy in him I’ve rarely seen—the 
boy who never got help with his articulation, the boy 
who would right that wrong by sending both of his 
children to speech therapy one day. Later, when I 
asked my mother what she knew about his ambiguous 
impediment, I learned that when my parents were de­
liberating baby names for me, my mother’s top choic­
es included “Martha” and “Lilith.” My father vetoed 
both.


In a home video that often makes its rounds during 
family reunions, I’m five years old and still unaware of 
my lisp. I stride into the frame and begin to sing: “Lit­
tle Jackie Paper loved that rathcal puff, and brought 
him thtrings and thieling wakth, and other fanthy thh­
hhtuff!”


Interdental /s/ sounds now feel foreign in my 
mouth, and I don’t think of my speech patterns as 
anyone’s but my own, but I sometimes wonder wheth­
er lispy tones would still feel foreign if I had never met 
Wendy—or whether I would have ended up an adult, 
vetoing baby names like my father did. Sarah. Silas. 
Spencer. Susannah. Sebastian.


In the opening scene of The King’s Speech, the 
2010 film about George VI’s journey to overcoming 
his stutter, an unnamed speech pathologist fills the 
king’s mouth with glass marbles and instructs him 
to enunciate several words. Later in the film, Lio­
nel Logue, the Australian-born elocutionist who ul­
timately succeeds in improving the stammer, leads 
the king in a myriad of other unconventional speech 
exercises: rolling log-style across a dusty carpet, swing­
ing his arms like a windmill, lying down and breath­
ing deeply while the queen sits on his diaphragm. At 
one point, as King George practices yelling “Ahhh” 
for fifteen uninterrupted seconds, Logue chimes in 
above the din: “Anyone who can shout vowels at an 
open window can learn to deliver a speech!”


Since the movie’s release in 2010, speech therapists 
like Wendy have become used to answering questions 
about the film, which brought the discipline of speech 
pathology into the public eye. And though most say 
that the techniques shown in The King’s Speech are 
outdated by contemporary standards, the film cap­



**Title: The Science of Speech**
**Author: Antonia Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 19
DECEMBER 2018
tures a fundamental part of the field’s history: its roots 
in elocution.

During the late 18th century, generations before 
King George VI assumed the throne, the study of 
elocution and oratory gained widespread popularity 
in England. Soon after, the movement migrated to 
the United States, where writers began studying elo­
cution for individuals with communication disorders. 
Alexander Graham Bell, inventor of the telephone, 
founded Boston’s “School of Vocal Physiology and 
Mechanics of Speech” in 1872, which specialized 
in speech instruction for deaf pupils. By 1887, there 
were 1,646 self-proclaimed elocutionists working in 
the United States.

It was not until the early twentieth century, how­
ever, that speech correction evolved into a discipline 
distinct from elocution. In 1922, Sara Stinchfield 
Hawk became the first American to receive a doctor­
ate in Speech Pathology. And in 1937, Robert West, 
who served as the first president of the American 
Speech Correction Association, published The Reha­
bilitation of Speech. The classic text is still in print 
today, and West is known to many as the founding 
father of speech pathology in the United States.

Wendy’s discipline has grown to address myriad 
speech and language difficulties over the past centu­
ry. Some speech therapists work primarily with trans­
gender people, assisting in the transition process and 
highlighting the rhythmic and intonational differenc­
es between most men’s and women’s speech patterns. 
Other pathologists specialize in post-surgical voice 
therapy for thyroid and laryngeal cancer patients, 
or work with individuals after strokes and traumatic 
brain injuries. Pediatric therapists, like Wendy, treat 
articulation-related impediments, phonological dis­
orders, and other language and communication dif­
ficulties.

Roughly 8 percent of young children in the United 
States have a speech disorder. By the time kids reach 
first grade, the prevalence of speech impediments falls 
to 5 percent. Still, only half of affected kids receive in­
tervention services from speech therapists. The U.S. 
Department of Labor reported in 2016 that there are 
roughly 145,000 speech-language pathologists in the 
United States. A reported 43 percent of these ther­
apists work in schools, but they’re often overworked 
with heavy caseloads—and children with minor but 
consequential articulation impediments can fall to 
the wayside.


When Wendy was a young girl, she once gushed to 
her parents, “Wouldn’t ‘Multitudes’ be a wonderful 
name for a boy?”

Now 62, Wendy is unsure where she developed her 
fascination with speech and language. She often cites 


 20
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
the influence of her father, who read Winnie the Pooh 
to her at bedtime and assumed perfectly suited voices 
for each of the book’s characters. As Wendy matured, 
she began experimenting with different accents as 
well, and quickly noticed she had a knack for imper­
sonating regional English dialects. In late elementary 
school, after meeting a Scottish girl and her family 
on vacation, Wendy briefly abandoned her Received 
Pronunciation for a Scottish brogue. 

A decade later, Wendy found herself 19 years old 
and living with her parents after dropping out of a uni­
versity program in Hotel Management. In an attempt 
to keep her daughter occupied, Wendy’s mother sug­
gested she shadow the speech therapist in Bedford. 
Over several days, Wendy traveled from appointment 
to appointment with the pathologist and listened to 
her deconstruct speech with mind-boggling speci­
ficity. Wendy witnessed the complexity of children’s 
communication difficulties and came to believe—for 
the first time in her life—that speech patterns could 
be built.

For Wendy, it was a life-changing revelation. She 
immediately enrolled at the National Hospital’s Col­
lege of Speech Sciences. After receiving her bache­
lor’s, she worked as a speech pathologist in London 
for seven years, and then returned to The Institute of 
Neurology to complete a one-year intensive master’s 
program.

During this time, Wendy met “an American”—the 
most specific she gets when referring to her ex-hus­
band—with whom she moved to the United States in 
1984. The couple settled in Connecticut and raised 
two sons. The kids have their father’s accent.

Now, Wendy is a member of both the American 
Speech–Language–Hearing Association and the 
Connecticut Speech–Language–Hearing Associa­
tion. She sometimes attends ASHA’s annual conven­
tion, which regularly attracts nearly fifteen thousand 
speech-language pathologists, but last year she opted 
out. “I’m very…picky,” she once confessed to me be­
fore correcting herself. “There are certain people I 
really want to hear.”

What Wendy genuinely cares about is the science 
of phonetics and linguistics as it pertains to commu­
nication. Spoken language can be broken down into 
several units—sentences, words, syllables, and, at 
its most deconstructed level, phonemes. There are 
forty-four phonemes in the English language, twen­
ty-four of which are consonants (which challenge 
children more often than vowels). These two dozen 
consonantal phonemes make up roughly 62 percent 
of English speech, and can be categorized by their 
voice, manner, and place.

Voice refers to whether the vocal folds vibrate or not 
when producing a noise. Because of this distinction, 
the same physical movements in the oral tract can 
produce different sounds, such as /s/ and /z/, or /p/ 
and /b/. Manner, on the other hand, describes how air 
is released when making a sound. Plosive consonants, 
like /p/ and /t/, are characterized by full blockage of 
the airstream, followed by a quick release of air. Fric­
ative consonants, including /f/ and /v/, create a hiss­
ing-like tone by releasing air through a tight opening.

Lastly, place describes where a phoneme occurs 
within the scope of the oral tract. Bilabial consonants, 
/p/, /b/, and /m/, are articulated between the lips. La­
biodental consonants, /f/ and /v/, manifest when the 
bottom lip touches the upper incisors. Dental con­
sonants, like the voiceless “th” sound in “thin,” are 
made by extending the tongue tip slightly between 
the upper and lower incisors. Alveolar consonants, 
such as /t/, /d/, and /s/, occur when the tongue blade 
is raised to the alveolar ridge. The glottal consonant 
/h/ occurs when the vocal folds do not vibrate but are 
close enough to produce friction as air is exhaled. 
The list goes on.

A properly trained speech pathologist, Wendy says, 
should be able to transcribe any consonant, vowel, or 
diphthong by ear—and identify its voice, manner, and 
place. One of Wendy’s biggest complaints about her 
field is how underappreciated this scientific part goes, 
and how frequently acquaintances—the same kind 
that ask about The King’s Speech—confuse speech pa­
thology with the less-scientific discipline of elocution. 
“When I was starting out, people heard you were a 
speech therapist and they would go, ‘How now brown 
cow,’” Wendy once remarked, rolling her eyes.

___

Wendy points to her lips, painted her signature 
pink. “Are these two the same or different?” she asks, 
adopting a hard American /r/ for the session. “Arr…
arr…arr. Arrarrarr.”

The five-year-old boy sitting at the table, Samuel, 
tucks his chin and continues twisting his yellow rain 
boots around the legs of his chair. (To protect the 
child’s privacy, Samuel is a pseudonym.) He starts to 
pick at the Wallingford Police Station temporary tat­
too that’s been on his arm for ten days.

Wendy tries again. “What part of my mouth is 
mostly moving? Arrarrarr.”

Samuel started attending weekly lessons with Wen­
dy in the spring of 2017. When they first began, he 
had a medley of severe articulation issues: he strug­
gled with the strident system, which includes sounds 
like “sh” and “ch”; he displayed non-rhotacism, omit­
ting his “r” sounds; and he substituted “th” for “f,” 
expressing his characteristically good manners with 
“please” and “fank you.” Many speech therapists wait 
until a child is eight years old to treat these issues, as 


 21
there’s a chance they’ll resolve naturally, but Samuel 
persuaded Wendy with his eagerness and aptitude. 
At their first lesson, when Wendy asked him why he 
thought they were meeting, Samuel was certain. “I’m 
here so you can teach me to say ‘shursh,’” he said, 
unknowingly echoing my brother.

Samuel has since improved his strident sounds 
and learned to articulate “r” at the end of words, but 
he still can’t isolate his tongue on r-initial words like 
“rat,” or r-remedial words like “carrot.” Wendy hopes 
that “Arrarrarr” will push Samuel to articulate the 
“r” sound before a vowel, but his lips have a habit of 
rounding into the “w” shape when he doesn’t pause 
between each “r.”

Samuel finally tilts his head back in frustration, 
shakes his bronze curls, and howls. “Arr! Arr! Arr!” 
Not quite. Wendy furrows her eyebrows and playfully 
corrects him: “That sounds like a hiccupping seal.”

After twenty years of running her private practice, 
Wendy rarely encounters articulation issues that she 
doesn’t know how to fix, once she has cracked what 
she calls the child’s “systematic error code.” For al­
most any common problem like a lisp or non-rhota­
cism, Wendy knows a set of strategies—some techni­
cal and some not-so-technical—that she uses until she 
identifies one that works best. When she first started 
working with Samuel last spring, Wendy began with 
her usual technique: make a long “ee” and imagine 
the tongue is glued to the palate but allowed to slide 
from front to back. As the tongue moves backward in 
the mouth, “ee” becomes “eer.”

This visual didn’t work with Samuel—he couldn’t 
move his tongue without rounding his lips—so Wen­
dy shifted to a less mechanical approach: do a seal 
impression. Samuel correctly articulated an “r” on his 
first try.

Between their weekly sessions, Samuel frequently 
practices speech exercises for fun, which Wendy says 
is practically unheard of. His r-final word articulation 
has now improved to the point that he corrects Wendy 
when she forgets her affected American /r/. Wendy 
recognizes the irony in teaching children a speech 
pattern that she does not share, but her accent doesn’t 
undermine her effectiveness, she says. If anything, it 
makes the children’s final /r/ sounds, though system­
atically constructed, more their own.

“I say to them, ‘You’ll be better at this than I am,’” 
Wendy tells me after Samuel’s session wraps up. “And 
they are, by the time they finish.”


A week later, Samuel’s Wallingford Police Station 
tattoo, now seventeen days out, has peeled to only a 
grey penumbra of a crest. He practiced “Arrrarrrarrr” 
at home this week, and Wendy thinks he’s ready for 
full r-initial words. She pulls out a page scattered with 
terms: rope, road, read, ring, rag, rat, red, rip, rug, run.

Wendy has scrupulously sketched a picture beside 
each word to provide a visual cue. The hand-drawn 
illustrations strike me like Wendy’s micro-adjustment 
of the table, but this time, I trust that whatever ener­
gy and attention she put into them is necessary. That 
maybe, one day, they’ll be a part of why Samuel won’t 
have to dodge words with perilous r sounds or veto 
baby names of his own.

Samuel and Wendy take turns pointing to a picture 
and reciting the corresponding word. When Samu­
el’s lips begin to round, Wendy gently rests her palm 
against his lower lip. 

In a moment between drills, Samuel spots old pa­
pers protruding from Wendy’s case binder. “That’s 
from when you couldn’t say ‘church,’” Wendy says. 
Samuel clicks his tongue indignantly.

“I can say it!” he retorts. “Churrrrrrrrrrch.”

—Antonia Ayres-Brown is a senior in 
Saybrook College.

**Title: HOPEFULLY YOU’VE LEARNED KOREAN BY NOW**
**Author: Julia Hedges**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When I told people that I learned Korean over the summer 
of 2013, they assumed I went to Korea, not that I lived with 
five other teenage girls in a cabin named for a North Korean 
work camp on the shores of Turtle Lake in Bemidji, Minnesota.

At Korean language immersion camp, we all wore hanboks 
at least once. We ate bulgogi and bibimbap, omelet rice and 
sundubu jjigae. We did taekwondo, sang Korean children’s 
songs, learned traditional dances and ate with chopsticks. Our 
counselors planned a pretend trip to Jeju Island, a street food 
tour, a casino night. We watched Wolf Boy and Taegukgi. 
We learned how to make patbingsu, and bought socks with 
embroidered images of our favorite Kpop idols at the village 
shop using Korean Won. At Camp Sup Sogui Hosu, Korean 
for Lake in the Woods, the name I was given at the beginning 
of the summer was Ju Ri. I’m a Jewish kid from Chicago and 
my actual name is Julia.

It’s humid in the North Woods in July and every day I wore 
jean shorts. The full face of makeup I put on dripped and 
smudged. I applied fuchsia eyeliner to my waterline and the 
little kids at the camp accused me of having pink eye. My 
braces had orange and blue rubber bands on them, and I 
had a multicolored hair wrap with a plastic bead at the end. 
There’s a photo of me from camp wearing a beige polyester 
button down with camels on it, presenting in front of the sixty 
or so other campers whatever Korean I had learned that week. 
I wore that shirt yesterday.

When you’re growing up you can’t choose your life, but you 
can choose your obsession.

When I was fifteen, I played the clarinet and piano seriously. I collected glass bottles and cardboard boxes and took 
painting classes. I did my trig homework and learned how to 
drive. I was in a mother-daughter book club, and when I went 
to homecoming, I was too awkward to dance. On weekends, 
I watched my brother’s friends play Call of Duty and Smash 
and for 2012 I threw an End of The World sleepover. On the 
one-year anniversary of my Bat Mitzvah my dad came out as 
gay and my parents got divorced. I wasn’t obsessed with any of 
these things.

Really, I spent my early teens tucked under the covers of 
my bed watching hours of subtitled music videos, live stages, 
reality shows, variety shows, hidden cameras and interviews. 
I was busy consuming the shiny world of Korean production 
companies’ perfectly manufactured celebrities, who are literally called idols. I watched members of Kpop groups ranking 
themselves by their looks, introducing themselves and their 
prescribed personas: the maknae, the visual, the leader, the 
rapper. I watched a reality show that gave teenaged idols a 
baby to raise. I listened to Kpop’s addictive EDM beat on 
repeat while backpacking in the Grand Canyon over winter 
break.

Growing up is deciding what you like and don’t like. When 
you decide that you really, really like something, maybe something that no one else likes, that’s now who you are.

I got into Kpop early, before Gangnam Style, before BTS. 
I spent hours combing kshow123, soompi and dailymotion 
for subtitled videos. I was literally there watching as each of 
EXO’s teaser videos dropped, as Gee became the first Kpop 
video to reach 100 million views. I was a member of fan 
clubs—a V.I.P, an ELF, a Shawol, an EXOL.

Kpop is a global phenomenon. In 1993 Jurassic Park featured Hyundai cars and the Korean company’s sales spiked by 
1.5 million. The South Korean government noticed that pop 
culture can make a country a lot of money. By 2012, South 
Korea had allocated a billion dollars to fund Korean pop 
culture. The “Hallyu Wave,” the increase in South Korean 
culture’s global popularity since the nineties, exports Kpop 
as a significant portion of the country’s economy. Kpop videos have comments in French, Russian, Arabic, German and 
Hindi. In Peru, 2NE1 music videos play on TVs in department stores. Super Junior recently has promoted songs titled 
“Lo Siento” and “Mamacita.” Kpop groups release albums in 
Japanese and Chinese. Song titles are usually in English, and 
lyrics often have phrases like “move it,” “break it,” “under my 
skin,” “fantastic,” and “I love it love it.”

At the beginning of eighth grade a friend from orchestra 
sent me a link over Facebook Messenger of SHINee’s music 
video for “Lucifer.” I was instantly hooked. I watched the five 
beautiful, effeminate, men with bleached asymmetrical hair 
dressed in leather and mesh dancing in metallic spinning 
rooms over and over again. I practiced my scales resting my 
clarinet sheet music on my computer screen with SHINee 
playing in the background. I watched Kpop and pretended 
that my parents weren’t yelling at each other outside my door.

I tried being into One Direction or Sherlock or Justin Bieber like other kids I knew, but couldn’t find anything to grasp 
onto. Kpop was prettier and brighter, kitschier, more theatrical. It was all-consuming. When I finished watching Super 
Junior’s talk shows going all the way back to 2008, I moved 
onto 2NE1 and then Block B and then MBLAQ. Being a 
Kpop fan is having ten different biases in ten different groups. 
It’s memorizing the exact second of a music video your favorite member looks at the camera and winks.

When I was a teenager, the Hallyu Wave was extremely 
pure. It remains an industry where idols have no-dating 
clauses written into their contracts and a 27-year-old singer 
is assumed to be a virgin. Idols claim that their fans are their 
girlfriends. Idols often talk about their ideal type in interviews: 
a puppy-like personality, someone who smiles with their teeth 
and has a cute aura, someone who doesn’t wear heels. That’s 
literally me, fans say. They are fourteen years old and sheltered 
and naive and imagine that they are in love.

Camp Sup Sogui Hosu was populated by Korean adoptees, 
Korean Americans, kids who had Korean friends, kids who 
really liked Taekwondo, and, of course, the majority: Midwestern kids like me who were obsessed with Kpop who were not 
Korean. A lot of kids at camp wished they were Korean. They 
wished they dated a flower boy, that they could see SHINee 
perform live, that they could move to Seoul and teach English. 
One girl who had blond hair and did revolutionary war reenactments at home wore makeup to make her look Korean.

No one talked about it. We said we were all just there to 
learn a language. But the truth was that many of us weren’t 
there due to genuine interest in the history or politics or fine 
arts or customs of Korea. We dreamed about our lives being 
like k-dramas, where we’d trip and somehow fall right into the 
arms of a rich heir, who’d hate us at first, but we’d woo them 
with our endearing quirks and eventually fall in love.

Sup Sogui Hosu’s website says it creates “a place that is 
both culturally authentic and uniquely our own.” Bemidji, 
Minnesota, called “The First City On The Mississippi,” is 
the self-proclaimed curling capital of the United States and 
the alleged birthplace of Paul Bunyan. It happens to also be 
home to the Concordia Language Villages, fifteen language 
immersion camps clustered around Turtle Lake, all run by 
Concordia College. On the villages’ website, Concordia says 
that they are “builders of globally minded communities and 
guides to world fluency.” Each camp markets reasons why 
American kids should learn their language. Russian camp 
offers the chance to “enjoy great literature!” Why learn Danish? To “Unlock the secrets of happiness!”

Sup Sogui Hosu is not an authentic Korean experience. 
It’s Korea accessibly served to teenage Midwesterners as a fun 
summer activity. Sup Sogui Hosu is the digital world of the 
Hallyu Wave made physical. But it’s also an American summer camp. We canoed and played UNO and ate s’mores. All 
summer long, my arms were covered with mosquito bites and 
my face was sunburned and peeling. One weekend we all 
went to a laundromat in town and downloaded kakaotalk and 
sent little winking cats to each other. We went to a shop that 
sold drug rugs and incense in a nearly abandoned mall and I 
downloaded the Hangul keyboard on my phone and put my 
friends’ Korean names in my contacts. Then we ate at a Perkins, a family-friendly dining chain. I ordered meatloaf.

The camp’s representation of Korean culture was distilled 
down to Kpop. We wrote letters to our favorite idols, and 
formed our own Kpop groups amongst ourselves. The counselors organized a game of Running Man based off of the 
variety show. We did morning exercises just like Korean high 
school students in TV dramas. Before bed we played our favorite Kpop songs. The girl who slept in the bunk across from 
mine taped pictures of Bi, Siwon and G-Dragon to the wall.

I first went to Korean camp because my friends and I had 
decided to do something together over the summer. Rachel 
learned languages as a hobby and Joanna was Korean, so we 
decided on Korean. I was devastatingly embarrassed of my 
obsession and would have never learned Korean otherwise. 
I wanted to feel superior to the Kpop-obsessed koreaboos at 
camp who held up double Victory signs in all their pictures. 
That is not me, I said to myself, even though at that point all 
my YouTube ads were in Korean. At camp, I pretended to mispronounce the names of Kpop groups. I told inappropriately 
timed jokes and was loud and obnoxious. I was self-conscious 
and was confronted with the fact that I was a type: a fourteen 
year old white girl Kpop fan, and that no, I wasn’t unique or 
especially worldly. I felt the koreaboos embarrassed themselves by calling the boys “oppa,” by wearing shirts of their 
favorite groups, by doing aegyo, by saying “fighting!” or “daebak!” or “omo!”

After camp was over, the counselors who were from Korea 
flew out of O’Hare. Rachel and I took them to H&M and Top 
Shop on Michigan Avenue. We ate at the Cheesecake Factory and spoke in Korean. Won Jae told me that Sup Sogui 
Hosu was uglier than Seoul, that the food at camp was barely 
Korean. I told him that I would come and visit.

“Conjuring,” Won Jae commented on my profile picture 
a month after camp ended. I responded in Korean. I’m not 
sure if I ever spoke Korean again after that. I definitely haven’t 
visited.


In eighth grade homeroom, I wrote a letter to myself to be 
opened on high school graduation. When I opened my letter 
it read “please please please 
don’t forget Yesung and Jonghyun and T.O.P. You probably 
still love Super Junior and 
SHINee and MBLAQ. Hopefully you’ve learned Korean 
by now!”

But at the same time as I 
wrote that, I had nightmares 
about being in my twenties and still tucked in bed 
in front of the computer 
watching 
other 
people’s 
lives, yearning for a place I 
wasn’t in, imagining myself 
as someone else surrounded 
by different people. Growing 
up is boring and sometimes 
lonely. You look in the mirror 
and you have acne and braces 
and you’re wearing animal print and you have a middle part 
and your parents just got divorced and you wished things were 
different. At 3 a.m., as I started in on my seventh hour of a 
k-drama, I would be filled with dread that I’d never be able 
to escape the world of Kpop and be happy to just live my own 
life.

I thought something monumental would have to happen 
to pull me away from Kpop, but what actually happened was 
underwhelming. Kpop had always been the best thing in the 
world, and it still was, but suddenly, I found myself drifting 
away from it. By the end of sophomore year, passively consuming media didn’t make me happy. When I was sixteen, my dad 
married my stepdad and I started biking the fourteen miles to 
school instead of driving. I threw up in my friend’s car after a 
Halloween party, I cut all my hair off, I taught Hebrew school 
and started a klezmer band. Life went on.

And so did Kpop. At my high school graduation rehearsal 
the kids I had grown up with sat bored in the pews of Rockefeller Chapel and a friend and I watched EXO’s newest music 
video. My senior year, three friends and I drove to buy Dean’s 
album at a store in Chinatown. I watched Weightlifting Fairy 
Kim Bong Soo and Show Me the Money 4. Last year I made 
three different Kpop playlists on Spotify and deleted all of 
them. But now, as I watch a movie with friends, I don’t wish I 
was watching Kpop interviews instead.

Now, other girls from Sup Sogui Hosu have their names 
in Korean on their Facebook pages with profile pictures of 
the Korean children they teach or now are students at Yonsei University. I’m at a US college studying architecture and 
speak no foreign languages fluently. Kpop moved on without 
me while I moved on without it.

Still, Kpop is one of the things that I’ve spent the most time 
thinking about in my life, and I haven’t been able to just let 
go completely. Last year Jonghyun from SHINee committed 
suicide and I was devastated. On the Ring Ding Dong 
music video, a YouTube user named “x blossom” commented, 
“When you grew up with SHINee and you hear that Jonghyun 
passed away, that feels like you lost a family member. That’s 
how much it hurts. Rest in peace my childhood.”

That’s what Kpop was for me. Kpop idols were the characters that populated my childhood, and Korean camp was the 
last time I remember being treated like a kid.

At Sup Sogui Hosu, I liked pickled garlic the most out of all 
the side dishes. At the end of camp Won Jae led me up to the 
stage at the front of the cafeteria and crowned me “Miss Garlic” and put a sash over my shoulder. He fed me sixteen cloves 
of garlic in front of everyone while they sang and clapped. 
And no matter what I achieve in my adulthood, that will be 
my proudest moment. 



**Title: sonnet to the hummingbird**
**Author: Kinsale Hueston**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
small heart, why do you explode 
against yourself each dewy morning? I yearn to stroke 
each feather that folds backwards in your tightened skin. 
does each rib expand in heat as you shudder through the air? 
in the garden, beyond the honeysuckles,
my eyes trail your swirling flight. my skin is taut
over my bones, and I dream of being small
and warm in someone’s hands.
oh, tiny muscle, filled with ice,
how long does it take your blurred form
to die? two years, and I still wake aching to pink morning,
my wings’ thousand beats stilled by my cradle of nest.
—sonnet to the hummingbird
illustration by Rachel Wolf
—Kinsale Hueston is a first-year in 
Timothy Dwight College.


**Title: THE ROAD BACK**
**Author: Elliot Wailoo**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

O
n November 14, 2017, Jesica Springer was at 
rehearsal for the Yale Dramatic Association’s pro­
duction of Dreamgirls when a twelve-pound disco ball fell 
on her head. The following day, she went to Yale Health, 
where a doctor told her she would recover within two 
weeks. She continued to attend classes, and tried to ignore 
the headaches that worsened each time she looked at the 
board or her notebook.
But Springer, then in her first semester at Yale, did not 
get better. Once, she got lost during the three-minute walk 
from Saybrook College to her room in Vanderbilt Hall. In a 
moment she no longer remembers, she shoved a classmate 
to the ground. Per doctor’s orders, she could only work for 
ninety minutes a day, in half-hour intervals. On December 
7, the second-to-last day of classes, Springer withdrew from 
Yale. “I was not cognitively capable of keeping up with my 
work, or taking my finals,” she told me. “If I kept push­
ing the way I was, I would have damaged my brain perma­
nently.” To withdraw, Springer sent a nineteen-word email 
to her dean. At the time, she had no idea that she would 
have to navigate a months-long, bewildering, bureaucratic 
process just to become a student again.

In 2015, one week into First-Year Scholars at Yale, a 
summer program in which incoming students take English 
114, an introductory writing class, Charelle Brown’s father 
passed away back in New Mexico. After missing class for 
a week to attend the funeral, she ultimately failed the 
summer course. “My family didn’t expect me to finish the 
program,” she said. “I was struggling to get writing. It took 
me a while to process losing my dad, and I lost him at a 
time when I had to produce a lot of writing. I was just so 
scared to write again.” Brown had to take a writing class 
to complete her first-year requirements and advance to 
sophomore standing. She enrolled in a writing course both 
semesters of her first year, but withdrew each time. “It was 
so severe—that fear of writing and producing things,” she 
said. Brown spent the summer of 2016 at home in Santo 
Domingo Pueblo (Kewa), New Mexico, seeing to family 
responsibilities and taking English 120 online. It was her 
last opportunity to complete the required writing credit and 
gain the eight credits she needed to advance to sophomore 
standing. When she arrived at Yale for her sophomore year 
that August, her grade for the online course was not yet 
available.

One day that September, toward the end of shopping 
period, Brown was called to a meeting with Ezra Stiles Head 
of College Steven Pitti and Dean Nilakshi Parndigamage. 
Brown had failed the summer class, Parndigamage said. 
She would be forced to withdraw. Brown said the admin­
istrators seemed apologetic, and that they emphasized that 
they were reading the official policy to her. “They told me 
that I had seventy-two hours to leave campus from the end 
of that meeting,” Brown said. “[They] made it seem like 
[by being here] I was going to put the university in danger, 
which was strange, because somehow, being withdrawn for 
an academic reason makes you a threat.”

Springer, Brown, and every other student who withdraws 
from Yale has to complete a uniform and lengthy list of 
tasks, regardless of the reason for their withdrawal. Often, 
the path to reinstatement requires spending thousands of 
dollars on plane tickets and classes at other colleges. In 
recent years, administrators’ efforts to reform the process 
or even enforce Yale’s existing rules have been uneven 
and inconsistent, leaving students frustrated and confused. 
Yale does not publicize statistics about how many students 
withdraw or are reinstated per year. This fall, I spoke with 
nine students who are either currently enrolled after being 
reinstated, or are still withdrawn. Their stories reveal the 
complex and often alienating process of applying for rein­
statement.

There are five reasons why a student may withdraw from 
Yale: personal, financial, academic, disciplinary, and medi­
cal. Personal withdrawals cannot be forced, while financial, 
academic, and disciplinary withdrawals are rarely voluntary; 
only health–related cases can be either. Mental health–
related issues are the most common cause for withdrawal, 
according to Sara Samuel, a 2015 graduate who served on 
a committee that reviewed Yale policies around withdrawal 
and reinstatement. To withdraw, a student sends an email 
to their residential college dean, who forwards it to the 
Students forced to withdraw from Yale 
have seventy-two hours to leave campus. 
To return, they must navigate a convoluted 
process.
Yale College Dean’s Office. The Dean’s Office notifies the 
University Registrar’s Office, which changes the student’s 
status in Yale’s online systems from ‘Full-Time Enrolled’ to 
‘Withdrawn,’ creating a formal separation between school 
and student, said Deputy Registrar Shonna Marshall.

Withdrawals are different from Leaves of Absences, 
which are always voluntary. Students in good academic 
standing can decide to take a Leave of Absence within the 
first fifteen days of a term. They can leave for up to two 
semesters, and while away, they remain affiliated with Yale. 
To return, a student on leave simply emails their college 
dean. Yet withdrawn students wishing to return must begin 
a long and complex reinstatement process, regardless of the 
reason for which they withdrew, and whether or not it was 
voluntary.

Once a student’s status is changed to ‘withdrawn,’ several 
changes take place, removing digital facets of their student­
hood one by one. Information Technology Services sets the 
student’s email account to expire, and the ID Center deac­
tivates the student’s swipe access after seventy-two hours. 
From then on, withdrawn students are barred from cam­
pus in perpetuity. “They may come to campus only upon 
receiving prior permission from their residential college 
dean or the Dean of Student Affairs,” state the academic 
regulations of the Yale College Program of Studies. Risa 
Sodi, Assistant Dean of Academic Affairs and the chair of 
the Reinstatement Committee, told me in an email that 
“students found to be on campus may be reported to their 
residential college deans or the campus police. In addition, 
anyone on campus who feels threatened by a withdrawn 
student can also call campus police.”

Yale administrators often frame reinstatement as an 
application gauging readiness: Is a student ready to come 
back to Yale? Will they be able to succeed in a stressful aca­
demic or social environment? Or—especially in the case 
of mental health withdrawals—will reinstatement exacer­
bate the challenges that forced them to withdraw in the 
first place?

Over the last four years, three Yale students have com­
mitted suicide after withdrawing and re-enrolling: Luchang 
Wang in 2015, Hale Ross in 2016, and Thomas Lawrence 
earlier this year. After Wang’s death at the beginning of the 
spring semester in 2015, public conversation on campus 
shifted towards examining policies around mental health 
services, withdrawal, and reinstatement, at least tempo­
rarily. In February 2015, the Yale Daily News published a 
series of editorials criticizing the process; in a heated town 
hall with university administrators later that month, previ­
ously withdrawn students did the same.  
On November 5, a 2018 alumna, referred to as Z.P. in 
legal documents, filed a lawsuit against Yale. She claimed 
Yale–New Haven Hospital held her for involuntary mental 
health treatment and disclosed confidential information to 
administrators, who forced her to withdraw from the Uni­
versity in November 2016. The suit alleges that Jonathan 
Holloway, then Dean of Yale College and one of twelve 
defendants in the suit, denied her appeal to remain at 
Yale. Z.P. was reinstated in fall 2017 and graduated this 
past spring. In her suit, she claims that Yale required her to 
withdraw as a preventative measure “due to her health and 
the recent suicides of two students,” even though she had 
demonstrated “improved mood and coping skills.” She saw 
Yale as “a refuge from her stressful home environment,” the 
suit went on, and wanted to stay on campus. While Z.P.’s 
allegations have not yet been brought to trial, they bring 
forth important questions about forced withdrawal: What 
reasons does Yale have for requiring a student to spend time 
away from campus? Do its requirements for readmission 
function in students’ best interests? And how can Yale act 
proactively to ensure students’ wellbeing while responding 
to the individual needs of those who withdraw?

When students who have withdrawn hope to be rein­
stated, they must submit a personal statement and gather 
two letters of support from instructors or employers. They 
must spend as many as two terms away from Yale “construc-



**Title: REINSTATEMENT**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Six to eight weeks before the 
deadline, Chair of the 
Reinstatement Committee,  
Dean Risa Sodi, emails 
withdrawn students 
application information.
Students on 
medical with­
drawal must 
be cleared to 
return by a 
doctor at Yale 
Health.
Students must 
have enrolled 
in two courses 
at a four-year 
accredited insti­
tution and earn 
grades of B or 
higher in both.
To reapply, students submit 
a personal statement and 
two letters supporting their 
application, mailed to Sodi’s 
address. In their application, 
students must describe what 
their alternative plans are if 
they are not reinstated.
Students 
must have no 
outstanding 
balance owed 
to Yale.
Upon submitting appropriate 
materials, students must 
schedule an interview with 
Sodi. Students withdrawn for 
mental health reasons must 
schedule an interview with Di­
rector of Yale Mental Health & 
Counseling Lorraine Siggins.
The Reinstatement Commit­
tee—Sodi, Siggins, and Dean 
of Academic Affairs Mark 
Schenker—reviews applica­
tions and renders decisions 
about whether students are 
ready to come back. 
Four to five weeks before the 
term begins, they notify 
students of their status via 
email.
Students may need to make 
housing or academic accomo­
dations with the Resource 
Office on Disabilities.
Students must communi­
cate with their Residential 
College Dean about their 
return.
The committee no­
tifies the student’s 
Residential Col­
lege Dean of their 
Deans counsel 
and make living 
arrangements for 
reinstated stu­
dents.
The committee 
notifies the Yale 
College Dean’s 
Office.
notifies the Uni­
versity Regis­
trar’s Office.
The URO updates student 
status from ‘Withdrawn’ 
to ‘Full-time Student.’ This 
change notifies Information 
Technology Services, which 
oversees student technology 
services, like emails.


Withdrawn students are “rela


The three-person committee—Sodi, Dean of Academic Affairs Mark 
Schenker, and Director of Yale Mental Health & Counsel­
ing Dr. Lorraine Siggins—reviews the application, makes 
a decision, and notifies the student about whether she will 
be reinstated.
Two of the students interviewed said that they were grate­
ful that they were forced to take time away or not allowed 
to come back after a first application for reinstatement. But 
several students, including those two, said that the process 
was anxiety-inducing and stressful, or that it even impeded 
their efforts to prepare for reenrollment. One student cur­
rently withdrawn for bipolar disorder who asked to remain 
anonymous because she has not yet been reinstated said 
she thought her application was denied because of two 
instances when she checked herself into a psychiatric ward 
for a night, months before she applied. “They saw it as a 
sign that I needed more time away,” she told me. “I was 
worried they would penalize me because I reached out for 
help.”
On the day she died, Wang posted a status on Facebook. 
In it, she described her intense worry of “having to leave 
for a full year, or of leaving and never being readmitted” 
to Yale. According to the YCPS, “A student is eligible to be 
reinstated only once; a second reinstatement may be con­
sidered only under unusual circumstances, ordinarily of a 
medical nature.”


Brown, the student who withdrew after struggling to 
complete her first-year writing requirement, comes from a 
low-income family; a scholarship from the Gates Millen­
nium Foundation covers all of her attendance costs. After 
learning she needed to leave Yale, she knew she could 
not afford a plane ticket home. Her Head of College, Ste­
ven Pitti, covered the cost of the flight to Albuquerque. 
“I’m pretty sure it was out of his own pocket,” she said. 
“I remember telling him, ‘I’ll pay you back,’ and he said, 
‘When you’re famous and you’ve graduated from Yale.’” 
In the hours following the meeting, Brown moved 
everything she couldn’t fit into her luggage to the Native 
American Cultural Center’s basement. She logged nine­
teen hours of work there, mostly spent cooking for the cen­
ter’s Welcome Back Barbecue, to have money when she 
returned to New Mexico.
Brown flew home just days after the barbecue. In a letter 


sent to Holloway the next week, her college advisor and 
architecture professor Karla Britton criticized the adminis­
tration for failing to provide Brown any option other than 
returning home. Instead, Britton suggested the school offer 
students like Brown an internship or job in New Haven. “In 
my 14 years of teaching at Yale College, I have not encoun­
tered another student with such a deliberate determination 
to give back to her community of origin,” Britton wrote. “If 
Charelle could have been given broader support for her 
goals at Yale, she could have been positioned to influence 
not only her pueblo, but certainly the students and faculty 
at the Yale School of Architecture as well.”
During her year at home in New Mexico, Brown lived 
with her brother, his wife, and their children. “When 
I got home, my family did not want to talk about why I 
had to leave. They were embarrassed that I came home,” 
Brown said. She biked everywhere to cut travel costs. And 
she worked to get over her fears of writing. “I spent the 
year writing all the time, writing every single day, writing 
in [my] journal,” she said. “That’s really what helped me 
figure things out.”
In the spring, to fulfill the two-course requirement for 
reinstatement, she enrolled part-time at the University of 
New Mexico, commuting daily by train and bus, three 
hours round trip. UNM offers financial aid to full-time stu­
dents only; to pay for her classes, she worked at the school’s 
Indigenous Design + Planning Institute, which gave her a 
tuition grant in place of a salary. She had no income, so 
to pay for transportation and food, every Friday and many 
Wednesdays, she cooked and sold burritos to other commu­
nity members in her pueblo.
When Brown began her application for reinstatement in 
May, she quickly encountered barriers. There was an out­
standing balance of $1,551.85 on her account, which she 
could not afford to pay. Of this amount, $504.32 was listed 
as “Board” charges from the fifteen days she had spent 
at Yale eight months earlier, and $165.44 was “Room” 
charges. Her scholarship is only valid for full semesters, so 
it did not cover the two weeks she had lived at Yale. Yale 
had placed Brown’s account on financial hold, preventing 
her from applying for reinstatement to Yale or requesting 
transcripts, which Brown needed to present before receiv­
ing her scholarship. She wrote a letter to her tribal governor 
explaining her dilemma and requesting that her tribe cover 
the outstanding balance. Tribal officials quickly agreed, 
and the payment was processed on May 31.
Brown was reinstated on August 3, 2017. Upon her 
return, she hoped to live with her friends and former 
suitemates, but she was placed with two transfer students 
instead. This year, she moved out of Ezra Stiles. “I just 
didn’t feel connected to it,” she said.


In fall 2014, Holloway, the former Dean, appointed a 
committee of six, chaired by English professor John Rogers, 
to review practices surrounding withdrawal and readmis­
sion. The committee was the administration’s first public 
effort to address policies and processes that had been criti­
cized for more than fifteen years, according to a story pub­
lished in the Yale Daily News in 2015. The semester prior, 
a Yale College Council task force had published a six-page 
report recommending changes to the process. Sitting on 
the administration’s committee were Mark Schenker, the 
Dean of Academic Affairs, former Trumbull Dean Jas­
mina Besirevic-Regan, and two lawyers from Yale’s Office 
of General Counsel: Susan Sawyer and Caroline Hendel. 
Sara Samuel, then a senior, was the only student.
The administration’s committee met eleven times and 
interviewed the registrar, the Director of Financial Aid, the 
Readmission Committee, residential college deans, repre­
sentatives from the YCC, and students who had withdrawn 
and been “readmitted,” as the process was then called. “We 
spent a lot of time discussing the requirements for getting 
back,” Samuel told me. “We wanted to present the policies 
in a transparent fashion.”
Wang committed suicide that January, part-way through 
the review process. Samuel, the only member who agreed 
to comment about the committee’s proceedings, said its 
members found the event sobering. “It really added to the 


The committee issued a 4,300-word report in April 
2015, outlining suggestions for policy and implementation. 
Some were simple: a change from “readmission” to “rein­
statement” to dispel a sentiment that withdrawal nullified 
a student’s Yale acceptance, an extension of the period 
for taking leaves of absence from ten to fifteen days, and 
the elimination of a $50 reinstatement fee. According to 
Sodi, Holloway endorsed all of the 2015 recommendations, 
meaning they could be enacted as policy. Many of the 
changes were made immediately. However, as of Novem­
ber 2018, three and a half years after the report was issued, 
several other recommendations endorsed by Holloway, 
who left Yale in 2017, are outstanding or only partially 
implemented.
The major recommendation that remains unfulfilled is 
the creation of a website to guide students and their fam­
ilies through the withdrawal and reinstatement processes. 
The report recommended that the website include down­
loadable application materials, information about the 
72-hour rule and insight into the financial aspects of with­
drawal, including an explanation of tuition insurance. As 
of December 3, no such website existed. A “Reinstatement 
FAQ” page created earlier in 2018 contains no information 
except a label that it is ‘under construction’ and a link back 
to the legalese of the YCPS. In a November 6 email, Sodi 
said the FAQs would be put into effect that month, and on 
November 27, she wrote that they were nearly ready for 
publication. Back in February 2016, Holloway told the Yale 
Daily News that the website would be up by spring break 
of that year.
The University’s implementation of other recommenda­
tions has been uneven. Several suggestions made by the 
committee do not appear in the YCPS; it is unclear whether 
they are not policy or just unavailable for students to view. 
For example, the report recommends that students on per­
sonal, medical, or academic withdrawal be able to petition 
for online library access. It also suggests that administra­
tors require students to meet with their residential college 
deans while applying for reinstatement. (Neither policy 
exists in the YCPS.) The report also recommends moving 
the fall reinstatement application deadline to June 1. (Cur­
rent policy has a fall deadline on July 1.)
In some cases, the University has neglected to formalize 
its policies in writing or communicate them to administra­
tors. For instance, after finding that some students’ ID cards 



**Title: The Reinstatement Process**
**Author: Elliot Wailoo**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and email accounts were being deactivated immediately 
after withdrawal, while others’ accounts were left active 
for months, the committee recommended that Yale sus­
pend student email accounts fourteen days after withdraw­
ing. However, this fall, Sodi said students now have email 
access for three years after withdrawal. (YCPS contains no 
mention of this policy.) When Springer withdrew after her 
concussion, her dean, Christine Muller, told her that her 
email would be deactivated. Quickly, Springer sent emails 
to alumni, with whom she was working to coordinate a con­
ference taking place that spring, passing on other students’ 
contact information—even though she was banned from 
viewing screens because of her concussion. Her email was 
never suspended.


When Springer returned to her home in Shoreview, 
Minnesota, last December, she was under doctor’s orders 
to do as little as possible. She continued physical and occu­
pational therapy for her eyesight, which was badly damaged 
and causing her headaches. She couldn’t read books for 
weeks. “I did a lot of sitting on my front porch,” she told 
me. “I couldn’t exercise or move quickly without passing 
out.”

By the end of February, three months after she was 
struck by the disco ball, her condition was improving. She 
traveled to California and Canada to visit friends and fam­
ily. She started reading books again. At that point, she knew 
little about the reinstatement process. When she withdrew, 
she got the impression from Muller, former Dean of Say­
brook College, that her reinstatement would be guaran­
teed. “Dean Muller just really emphasized, ‘Don’t even 
worry about it. You’ll have to do an application, but don’t 
worry about that until April,’” Springer said. “It was very 
much presented to me as a non-issue. Both my mom and I 
were under the impression that there was no question of my 
coming back.” But she was later told multiple times in the 
standardized emails she received from the Reinstatement 
Committee that reinstatement was not assured.

Because her withdrawal was related to physical health, 
Springer was required to pay for a flight to New Haven in 
April to be cleared to return by Yao-wen Hu, Director of 
Athletic Medicine at Yale Health. “He was like, ‘Do you 
feel good?” Springer told me. “I was like, ‘yes.’ It was a 
twenty-minute meeting. I was like ‘Wow, I really came out 
here for this?’” She returned to Minnesota after the meet­
ing. By late May, she had mailed in a personal statement 
explaining why she wanted to be reinstated and two letters 
supporting her return from an instructor and an employer.

On May 31, Springer received an email from Sodi’s assis­
tant, Rolaina Wright, telling her to set up interviews with 
both Sodi and Director of Yale Mental Health & Counsel­
ing Lorraine Siggins. The subject line was “reinstatement 
materials received.” Springer scheduled both interviews for 
the last two weeks of June.

Then, on June 18, she received another email from 
Wright. The subject was “reinstatement materials NOT 
received.” Sodi had never received Springer’s medical 
clearance letter from Yale’s doctor. “I suggest, then, that 
you contact Dr. Hu to request a duplicate,” Sodi wrote later 
that day in an email to Springer, who frantically called Yale 
Student Health and Yale Medical Records to reauthorize 
them to send her health files to Sodi.

That day, Springer had rearranged her schedule for a 
Skype interview with Siggins about her mental health. At 
the time, she was enrolled in two courses at the University 
of Minnesota—a calculus class and an introductory eco­
nomics class—to fulfill the two-credit requirement for rein­
statement. The conversation with Siggins was quick. “She 
was like, ‘Oh, Jesica, I just opened your file because I was 
going to interview you, but I see that you withdrew because 
of a concussion. So I guess we don’t really need to talk,’” 
Springer told me. They ended the Skype call. “They just 
assumed without ever looking at my case that I had men­
tal health issues,” Springer said. Siggins did not respond to 
multiple requests for comment.

When Brown applied for reinstatement, she, too, was told 
by an administrative assistant, Lisa Miller, that she needed 
to interview with Siggins, even though she explicitly men­
tioned she withdrew for academic reasons when schedul­
ing the interview. Unlike Springer, Brown completed the 
interview with Siggins. No Yale policy requires students on 
academic withdrawal to interview with a psychiatrist.


On October 22, Sodi met with Yale College Council 
Vice President Heidi Dong and Director for Student Life 
Grace Kang to discuss a new set of policy recommenda­
tions for withdrawal and reinstatement that the YCC had 
been working on since the spring. (Kang is also a formerly 
withdrawn student; she hurt her back during her first 
semester, spent a year away, and was reinstated in the fall 
of 2017.) Earlier in October, the council had conducted a 
focus group with four reinstated students, soliciting feed­
back about the withdrawal and reinstatement processes.

The YCC proposed eliminating a requirement for stu­
dents withdrawn for academic and personal reasons to 
spend two full semesters away from Yale. The suggestions 
also included offering financial aid for students who, like 
Brown, cannot afford to take required classes while away 
from campus, creating an earlier application cycle for with­
drawn international students to give those who are rein­
stated more time to apply for visas, and establishing a Peer 
Liaison program for recently reinstated students.


Many of the suggestions YCC brought to the adminis­
tration in 2014 have yet to be implemented. “The Dean’s 
office thinks that they’re welcoming to returning students 
and helpful to students looking to get reinstated, but some­
where along this chain of people, reinstated students feel 
neglected by the Dean’s office,” Kang wrote in an email. 
But Dong and Kang both said that Sodi, who has been the 
chair of the Reinstatement Committee since October 2017, 
was receptive of the latest set of proposals. “Because she’s 
new, she wasn’t aware of some of the problems that students 
had,” Kang wrote. According to Kang, Sodi will pose YCC’s 
recommendations to other deans in a December meeting. 
However, Kang added that it may take up to two years for 
the changes to be implemented.

In the YCC’s research into other schools’ policies, 
Brown University stood out. Its reinstatement process is 
fairly simple. If a student leaves for medical reasons and 
wants to return, they need to do three things: write a letter 
explaining their case to the student support dean they are 
paired with while away, procure and supply a letter from a 
treatment provider, and fill out an information release form 
to allow deans to access their medical information. Brown 
does not require students on medical leave to take classes 
while away, or to interview with any Brown officials.

Brown’s Office of Student Support Services website con­
tains a wealth of information about the school’s protocols 
for leaving and returning. Online guidelines include a 
four-week timeline of the petition review process, an out­
line of the criteria the committee use to evaluate cases, and 
a list of committee members. If a student wants to appeal 
the committee’s choice, the guidelines also provide instruc­
tions on how to do so. Prior to the creation of the guidelines 
in 2017, Brown deans ran a comprehensive blog about the 
medical leave process, complete with student and parent 
testimonials.

Daisha Roberts, a YCC senator who has contributed to 
the group’s research, praised Brown’s policies. “Everything 
is just student-centered, and they really care about the stu­
dent’s well-being more than our policy does,” she said.


On July 16, Springer learned the committee had rein­
stated her, even before grades from her summer courses 
at the University of Minnesota were released. Students 
need a B or higher in their required two classes to be rein­
stated. She was relieved to hear the news—and knew she 
would pass the classes—but was still confused. “Why did 
[the committee] make me pay for these classes if [they] are 
going to reinstate me without seeing proof of them?” she 
asked.

Springer said that returning to Yale as a first-year for the 
second time is different. She has different priorities; she 
worries about different pressures. Her second set of orienta­
tion meetings was useless. She’s retaking the same French 
class she nearly completed last year. She’s managing a 4.5 
credit course load, prioritizing paper-heavy courses over 
detail-oriented ones. “My memory is not as good as it used 
to be,” she said. “My short-term memory is just not there. 
I’m having a really hard time keeping track of people.” A 
few times, she has mistakenly reintroduced herself to some­
one she met last year.

Since her concussion, Springer has worn bifocals to 
help her eyes shift between looking at close-up and far-
away objects; her eyes no longer converge and she has 
minimal vision between one and three feet from her face. 
Her adjustment was also marred by bureaucratic chal­
lenges. She could not be guaranteed housing with her class 
because she was not reinstated until after dorm arrange­
ments were set. Even though Springer was assigned a room 
in Vanderbilt Hall with other first-years in Saybrook at the 
last-minute, after a student decided not to matriculate, she 
was not granted the medical single she requested for her 
post-concussion sleep disturbances. The summer credits 
she took did not transfer automatically; she spent weeks 
convincing the Math and Economics departments to trans­
fer them, seeking advice and support from Sodi.

Springer told me she found that Yale’s policy and process 
created barriers that exacerbated the challenges she faced 
in returning to school. “It could be so much more person­
alized,” she said. “The person who I had rearranged my 
entire schedule to have a Skype interview with thought that 
I withdrew for mental health reasons. It’s kind of absurd 
to me that I’m put through the same process as someone 
who’s on a disciplinary leave. I also think that requiring two 
classes when I was gone for a semester—and that I would 
just have to pay for these things—is just absurd.”

When Springer arrived for move-in this year, there was 
no ID or key for her, although she had been communi­
cating with university staff including Cissy Armstrong, the 
Assistant to the Dean in Saybrook, for more than a month 
about her impending return.

After arriving to Old Campus with her luggage, Springer 
walked over to a woman from the registrar’s office stand­
ing nearby. “I was like ‘I’m a reinstated student, there’s no 
ID here under my name, I don’t have a key to my room,’” 
Springer said. “And this lady was like, ‘Are you sure you’re 
reinstated? Are you sure? Have you gotten a letter? Are you 
sure you’re actually reinstated, and don’t just think you are? 
Are you sure you’re a student here?’ I was almost crying 
when Cissy walked up and was like, ‘She’s good!’”

Three days later, Springer found out the woman from 
the registrar’s office was her first-year advisor.
—Elliot Wailoo is a sophomore
in Saybrook College.



**Title: I Was a Featured Speaker at Gilmore Girls Fan Fest 2018**
**Author: Lily Dodd**
**Page number(s): 33**

I 
found out about Gilmore Girls Fan Fest while 
serving, in August, on Appalachian Trail Sup­
port Crew for FOOT, a pre-orientation backpacking 
program for first-years at Yale. We –– the four people 
charged with handling emergencies in the backcoun­
try –– were stationed in Kent, Connecticut, and it was 
while perusing Yelp on a desperate quest for a bagel that 
I discovered that the town hosts a gathering for Gilm­
ore Girls fans in October. I didn’t know much about 
the show at the time, but I’d seen enough episodes to 
gather that it was a heartwarming mother-daughter sit­
com set in a fictional Connecticut small town. Kent, 
with its artisanal cheese shop and hockey-powerhouse 
boarding school, seemed like the perfect place for fans. 
I imagined being back in Kent in autumn, surrounded 
by women who love Melissa McCarthy, and I realized 
: I needed to go. Gilmore Girls Fan Fest was going to 
be like the magical feminist utopia island from Won­
der Woman, if Wonder Woman were written by Martha 
Stewart.

After snagging The New Journal’s approval, I sent 
an email to the coordinators of GGFF asking for a 
press pass. This is where things got complicated: I was 
granted the pass (huge–– tickets to the festival were 
about $250), but I was also asked if I could lead a panel 
on “writing for the news.”

If you aren’t familiar with Gilmore Girls, you may 
wonder, “Now, why would they want you, of all people, 
to do that?” Good question. Rory Gilmore, one of the 
show’s two protagonists, goes to Yale with journalistic 
ambitions and eventually becomes Eeditor-in-Cchief of 
the Yale Daily News. When I confessed to the festival’s 
director that I not only did not write for the News, but 
had never written a story for any Yale publication at all, 
she told me not to worry and to lead the panel anyway. 
She did request that, if possible, I bring a friend from 
the YDN.

I found the ideal man for the job in the form of 
Eamonn Smith, a good friend and novice reporter 
for the News. Eamonn knew even less about Gilmore 
Girls than I did, which I thought might make me seem 
like the more authoritative panelist. When Eamonn 
and I showed up at the Festival’s administrative offices 
early Friday morning, I realized for the first time what, 
exactly, I had gotten myself into. One of the first inter­
actions we had was with a volunteer, who, upon learn­
ing we were press from Yale, exclaimed, “Look! It’s 
Rory and Logan!” (Logan is Rory’s Yale boyfriend to 
whom Eamonn bears a passing resemblance. Eamonn: 
“Who’s Logan?”) I was delighted at being compared to 
the inarguably hot Alexis Bledel, who plays Rory, but I 
also realized in that moment that I had agreed to spend 
two-and-a-half days in a small town overrun by fanatical 
devotees of a show I’d barely watched. A massive tent 
served as the festival’s epicenter, but events were held 
throughout Kent’s quaint downtown. In the restaurants 
and the public library and behind the firehouse were 
the attendees: just over a thousand people, who were, 
by one volunteer’s estimate, 90 percent women, mostly 
wearing shirts I did not understand: “TEAM ROBERT” 
and “babette ate oatmeal.”

Sometimes, you just gotta bite the bullet––or in this 
case, the strawberry balsamic ice cream made by the 
costume designer for Gilmore Girls. I kicked off Fri­
day afternoon with a debate on Rory’s best boyfriend 
(someone named “Jess” won), then moved on to a trivia 
game in which I embarrassed myself by with my abys­
mal knowledge of the Supreme Court. (The question 
was,: “Which real-life Supreme Court justice was in the 
Puffs?” The Puffs = an all-female secret society at Rory’s
illustrations by Sam Oldshue



**Title: Gilmore Girls Fan Fest**
**Author: Lily Dodd**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
elite high school. For some reason, the only name I 
could think of was Ruth Bader Ginsberg. Incorrect—it 
was Sandra Day O’Connor. Good look for me, already 
the least-useful person at the table.)
My favorite event was a “photo opportunity” with 
actors Tanc Sade and Nick Holmes, who played Logan’s 
Yale friends, members of his fictional secret society, 
The Life and Death Brigade. Two of the biggest stars in 
attendance, they’d appeared in fifteen and five episodes, 
respectively, and I’d never heard of either of them. Still, 
the attendees treated them like gods. And I’m not one 
to judge: I once handed Glee actor Darren Criss a nine-
page fanfiction I had written about him having coffee 
with Daniel Radcliffe and Harry Potter.

During the photo opportunity at the local antique 
store, I positioned myself on the steps outside with a 
cup of French onion soup and watched. Sade, tall and 
sporting a bowler hat, and Holmes, whose own Insta­
gram bio describes him as “wildly handsome,” were 
observational gold. 	

While Sade spent a lot of time fending off female 
attention — to a woman wearing a shirt that read, “My 
ideal weight is Tanc Sade on top of me,” Sade, in his 
admittedly charming Australian accent, said, “Wow, 
that’s great! I should get one for my fianceè!” — Holmes 
spent a lot of time encouraging it. On Saturday night, at 
the cast panel, Holmes estimated he had kissed seven­
teen attendees on the mouth. I had witnessed one kiss 
that morning and literally did a double-take. Later, I 
learned through by scrolling through Instagram photos 
taken at the festival that Holmes not only kissed his fans 
(passionately and consensually) but also took naked 
pictures of (at least one of) them. When not acting, 
Holmes is an “empowerment photographer,” specializ­
ing in black-and-white, bare-chested shots of women. 
At least one of these scantily-clad photoshoots featuring 
a scantily-clad fan took place at the festival itself. But 
a woman I interviewed — who was tagged in one of 
Holmes’ Instagram posts labeled #GGFF— declined 
to tell me where, exactly, the photo had been taken. 
(The Instagram account on which Holmes shares the 
photos, @narcissusholmes, boasts 16.6 thousand fol­
lowers; a second account, @nickholmeshair, devoted 
strictly to his hair, has 773. On each account, Holmes’ 
bio includes the words “In omnia paratus,” the Life 
and Death Brigade motto, which means “ready for all 
things.”)

There’s no denying that the Gilmore Girls fans know 
how to party. I was initially nervous about finding peo­
ple to hang out with, since Eamonn was decidedly unin­
terested in staying overnight, but festival attendees were 
unfailingly kind to me. A chef and her fifteen-year-old 
daughter took me out to dinner. At Club Getaway, a 
retreat center and summer camp where many fans and I 
slept, I shared breakfast with seventeen-year-old Malika 
and, twenty-three-year-old Lexi, and their mothers. 
Malika and Lexi had been inspired by a scene in which 
Rory and the Life and Death Brigade “boys” jump off 
a large platform holding umbrellas. As luck would have 
it, Club Getaway was also home to a ropes course that 
included a thirty-five-foot platform, and the affable 
man who ran it let Lexi and Malika jump off with their 
umbrellas (and, of course, bungee cords). I also jumped 
off, though not with an umbrella, because a) I didn’t 
have one and b) I was worried it would somehow get 
tangled in the bungee cord, resulting in my tragic death 
at Gilmore Girls Fan Fest.

But for me, the key moment of the festival came 
during our “Journalism at Yale” panel, which quickly 
turned into a “Yale” panel, possibly because it became 
clear that nobody onstage knew that much about journal­
ism. We got quite a range of questions, from “Are secret 
societies real?” to “How much did the YDN investigate 
the allegations leveled against Brett Kavanaugh?” The 
more I talked about Yale, the more I wished, for the first 
time, that my life were more like Rory’s, if only to please 
the audience. When a woman approached me after the 
panel and asked if I had a boyfriend, I wanted to say that 
I did, but that his billionaire father thought my family 
was trash, as befalls Rory. It turned out the woman was 
asking on behalf of her son, whom she pointed out to 
me, standing across the room and apparently unaware 
of his mom’s audacious matchmaking attempt. When I 
said I didn’t really want to start something at Gilmore 
Girls Fan Fest, his mom said, cuttingly, “He’s too young 
for you anyway.”

That incident aside, I’ll be earnest: it’s a strange thing, 
realizing that your reality is someone else’s fantasy. The 
Monday after the festival, I gave a mini-tour of cam­
pus to two young women and one of their husbands. 
I’d met the women at trivia (they roasted me about the 
Supreme Court thing), and found myself more or less 
bursting with pride to show them my school. “Look!” 
I said, pointing at Branford. “It’s Rory’s college!” This 
is something I would have never said five days earlier.

I dropped them off on Hillhouse Avenue, a street I 
get to see every day and that Mark Twain apparently 
said was one of the most beautiful in the world. On 
my way back to my dorm, I stepped on a dead squir­
rel. But even that seemed like something the glamor­
ous-but-occasionally-world-weary Rory might do, and 
thus—extremely desirable.
—Lily Dodd is a sophomore
in Silliman College.


**Title: Yale University Judaic Studies Spring 2019 Course Offerings**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 35**

YALE UNIVERSITY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
                                              JUDAIC STUDIES Spring 2019 Course Offerings 
 
INTRODUCTORY COURSES 
JDST 201 – Introduction to Modern Jewish History, MW 1:30pm-2:20pm, David Sorkin 
JDST 235 – Introduction to Judaism In the Ancient World, TTh 1pm-2:15pm, Steven Fraade 
JDST 293 - Intro to Modern Jewish Thought , MW 11:35am-12:50pm, Elli Stern 
 
MEDIEVAL & EARLY MODERN 
JDST 372 - Jewish Every Day Life in the Middle Ages, Th 3:30pm-5:20pm, Micha Perry 
JDST 374 - Jewish Magic, Th 9:25am-11:15am, Alessia Bellusci 
 
MODERN 
JDST 281 - Jewish Philosophy in 20th Century, T 1:30pm-3:20pm, Zev Harvey 
JDST 282 - Judeo-Spanish Culture, Language, and Literature, M 3:30pm-5:20pm, Allyson Gonzalez 
JDST 355 - Reflections on the Holocaust, T 3:30pm-5:20pm, Katrin Truestedt 
JDST 358 - Feminism and Judaism, W 1:30pm-3:20pm, Igor De Souza 
 
HEBREW LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE 
JDST 306 - Israeli Narratives, W 1:30pm-3:20pm, Shiri Goren 
JDST 329 - Modern Jewish Poets, W 1:30pm-3:20pm, Peter Cole 
JDST 343 - Advanced Literary Translation, Th 1:30pm-3:20pm, Peter Cole 
JDST 401 - Academic Texts in Modern Hebrew, TTh 11:35am-12:50pm, Dina Roginsky 
JDST 407 - Israeli Popular Music, Th 2:30pm-3:45pm, Dina Roginsky 
 
_____________________________________________________________ 
 
 
Program in Judaic Studies 
Yale University 
451 College St., Rm. 301 
New Haven, CT 06511 
Tel – (203)432-0843,  Fax – (203)432-4889 
www.judaicstudies.yale.edu 
 
Please note that information on courses, including meeting days and times, is subject to revision. Students should 
check the printed YCPS and especially the on-line course information for the fullest and most accurate information 


 36
Truth
History
Democracy
Hear from some of the most outstanding 
journalists in the world and gain insight into 
the media and its role in contemporary culture.
poynter.yale.edu

