Publication date: January 21, 1983
Volume: 15
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Matthew Bartholomew
- Business Manager: Barbara Burrell
- Production Manager: Hilary Callahan
- Photography Editor: Jeff Strong
- Associate Business Managers: Darren Gersh, Jane Kamensky, Robert Moore
- Associate Editors: Geoff Hayward, Paul Hofheinz, Jim Lowe, Morris Panner, W. Hampton Sides, Lelia Wardwell
- Associate Production Manager: Alex Savich
- Staff: Jon Bunge, Tina Kelley, Katie Kressman, Mike Otsuka, Laura Pappano, Marilynn Sager, Katherine Scobey, Sally Sloan, Christianna Williams, Lisa Yun


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment When Falwell came to Yale - W. Hampton Sides
- Only sixteen: women and tenure at Yale - Leslie Koch
- NewsJournal The spirit of the spirits shop
- Backstage at the Rep
- Moose is loose, again
- Major stories Cover: Witnessing the witnesses - Andy Court
- Columbus House: a new haven for the homeless - Tina Kelley
- The food factory - Lindsay Rodes
- Research The paid Samaritans - Darren Gersh
- Books The Great Intangibles of college life - Holly Lyman


**Title: Comment When Falwell came to Yale**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 5**
He walked into a lion's den, and left with an
applause, and no one could understand.


**Title: Only sixteen: women and tenure at Yale**
**Author: Leslie Koch**
**Page number(s): 7**
A discussion of the problems Yale faces in its efforts to
tenure more women.


**Title: NewsJournal The spirit of the spirits shop**
**Author: (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 10**
After 15 years, Snoopy at Quality Wine had become
more than a familiar face.


**Title: Backstage at the Rep**
The Yale Repertory Theatre's Winterfest features six
seminars on the creation and development of a new
play.


**Title: Moose is loose, again**
The Oldest Residential College Weekly Diary of Era
•
Stiles College returns for another semester of satire.


**Title: Major stories Cover: Witnessing the witnesses**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 12**
The story of the Holocaust Survivors' Film Project, a
unique effort to videotape Holocaust survivors
recounting their experiences. The project's collection of
over 250 tapes has become Yale's first video archive.


**Title: Columbus House: a new haven for the homeless**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 22**
New Raven's street people get a new place to sleep at
night.


**Title: The food factory**
**Author: Lindsay Rodes**
**Page number(s): 30**
A behind-the-scenes look at the people who touch what
you eat, everyday.


**Title: Research The paid Samaritans**
**Author: Darren Gersh**
**Page number(s): 40**
Some students will rent their bodies out to make a
buck and science is the better for it.


**Title: Books The Great Intangibles of college life**
**Author: Holly Lyman**
**Page number(s): 45**
YDN's latest Insider's Guide to the colleges is out,
with some interesting changes from previous editions.


**Title: Playing In Local Bands**
**Author: Nancy Fales Garrett**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Playing In Local Bands 
by Nancy Fales Garrett 
The disturbing and comic story of a famiJ 's reunion in the 
desert Southwest.


**Title: Comment: When Falwell came to Yale**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Comment 
When 
Falwell came 
to Yale
W. Hampton Sides
It was a lost war for so many who 
turned out, a missed opportunity to 
destroy somebody disagreeable. For 
others it was only confirmation that a 
smart politician knows how to juggle 
his views for a hostile audience. But 
that night I sensed that there was more 
to the crowd's reaction than this. I was 
fairly certain, as I walked out into the 
wet streets after hearing him, that 
something had gone awry. Some well-
learned confidence had failed, some 
stale college-boy ideal had played out. 
And when I saw the other faces it oc-
curred to me that I wasn't the only one 
who felt it. I could see it in their ex-
pressions, could hear it in the flat 
silence of the lecture hall as it emptied. 
Jerry Falwell had walked into a lion's 
den that night, and left with an ap-
plause. And no one could understand. 
. Maybe it was just bad vibes linger-
mg from Giamatti's freshman address 
about the New Right last year, but 
there 
was something incongruous 
about Falwell's very presence here on 
November 11, 1982. After all, this was 
the "peddler" of coercion the president 
had warned everybody about. This was 
the glaring, smiling symbol of all the 
crude Middle American values that 
universities are supposed to renounce 
a!ld . work against. So from the be-
~nnmg there was the frown of an 
tnstitution. 

The evangelist from 
Virginia had been invited, but he 
wasn't exactly welcome. Was this why 
P.resident Giamatti agreed to meet in 
hts office with Falwell earlier in the 
day, but was infuriated when a New 
York Times photographer snapped off 
a few shots of the two men shaking 
hands in Woodbridge Hall? What 
would the alumni say about this in the 
paper? 

But reflecting upon the evening I 
spent with Jerry Falwell, I think that 
there was nothing I could call "crude" 
about the man. I remember only the 
smoothness of his style, the frankness 
of his appearance, the gray three-
piece. This was no redneck monster 
no fire and brimstone bumpkin i~ 
polyester. This was a politician with 
sp7echwriters and a carefully sculpted 
hatrcut. We had expected the Bible 
and got politics instead, had expected 
hallelujahs and got figures and 
statistics and a few boring quotes out 
of Reader's Digest instead. 

What was worse, we had expected 
stupidity and provincialism, and 
wound up with a 
rather brilliant 
speaker who knew where he was that 
night. 

The conversation began delicately at 
the pre-speech dinner for Falwell and 
his entourage. They were serving bak-
ed chicken in the T.D. fellow's lounge 
when University Chaplain John Van-
norsdall called for a moment of "op-
tional" prayer. It was to be non-sec-
tarian prayer of course, a minute or 
two for people so persuaded to bless 
their food. I glanced up to see Falwell's 
reaction. He was grinning at his asso-
ciates as he bowed his head. 
Optional, 
non-sectarian 
prayer. 
Wasn't this exactly what he wanted to 
see back in the public schools? Falwell 
kept grinning. 

There were just a handful of us at 
the table with Falwell- a few reporters 
and P.U. members in coat and tie. We 
were eating quietly, craning our necks 
to see, as Chaplain Vannorsdall tried 
to break the ice. The first topic that 
cropped up between the two men of the 
cloth was nuclear war. Falwell pointed 
out that his biggest concern was not the 
Russian threat, but rather the spread 
of nuclear weapons 
into under-
developed countries. And then, out of 
nowhere, Chaplain Vannorsdall 
started quoting from T homas Hobbes' 
Leviathan, which he had been looking at 
that day. Vannorsdall said the atom 
was like the Leviathan, filling mankind 
with fear and compelling us to obe-
dience through its awesome power of 
destruction. 

Okay, I thought. It seemed natural 
enough to me in the setting, this casual 
sort of scholarly namedropping. Then 
it struck me that Falwell probably 
hadn't read a whole lot of Hobbes in 
his lifetime and that he probably didn't 
care to hear about him now while he 
was picking apart his chicken wing 
across the table from us. What does 
J erry Falwell have to do with Thomas 
Hobbes?, I thought. 

Sometimes books are the handiest 
way to sidestep direct conversation. 
Sometimes people need an old frame 
of reference for explaining something 
entirely new, just as someone might 
refer to a verse from the Bible when he 
doesn't have the answer. But when 
liberals like Vannorsdall show such 
predilection for books in times of 
uneasy conversation, 
I 
begin to 
wonder whether there might be 
something to all this business about 
"secular humanism." Maybe it is more 
than a code word in the Bible Belt, 
more than the philosophy of Satan at 
work. Maybe it in fact exists as a kind 
of high faith, and maybe many of us 
depend on it for answers. 

Outside the building while Falwell 
spoke, a modest-sized gathering of 
students staged a protest play they 
called a "secular humanist vigil." They 
chanted lines by candlelight, 
condemning bigotry and chauvinism 
and oppression and nuclear war. They 
praised the liberties of reproductive 
right and 
sexual alternative. 
In 
unison, 
they read from 
a 
script 
reverently prepared by the organizers, 
drowning out the roars from the lion's 
den with a methodical hum. They 
never entered the building. People 
who went to the vigil said they felt bet-
ter when it was over. The question oc-


curs to me: isn't this religion, and 
who's to say it isn't? 

It was this same humanitarian faith 
that told me that many of Falwell's 
beliefs were morally wrong. And 
because of this, I assumed that he was 
wrong in a constitutional context, that 
his opinions were illegitimate, and I 
dismissed him as an ignoramus. I then 
made the even greater mistake of as-
suming that his illegitimacy was self-
evident to the planet, because I 
thought I had seen a bit of the light 
and he hadn't, because my words were 
softer, more elusive than his. I had 
pretended all along that the pile of 
books on the shelf back in the room 
somehow made me more intelligent 
than he, and therefore more right. I 
didn't have to think things through. I 
had read my H obbes, and he hadn't. 

When Jerry Falwell came to Yale I 
think many people discovered that 
faith alone wasn't .good enough in a 
political debate. They found they 
couldn't 
rely 
on the babble of 
humanism to answer the radicals of the 
right or left. 

Pluralism. Tolerance. Civilization. 
Humanity. We all know the buzz-
words. They sre the poignant catch-
phrases ingrained in our minds by our 
poets, people like Giamatti and Van-
norsdall and Coffin. The words sound 
pretty, and they fall out of the mouth 
like baby food. We use the words in 
conversation just as the evangelicals 
argue social issues out of the Good 
Book. But what does "tolerance" stand 
for when a Falwell comes and con-
demns pornography? What does "plur-
alism" mean when a Falwall comes and 

says abortion is murder? The words 
are irrelevant, because they exist as ar-
ticles of faith and not as arguments of 
politics. 

Falwell believes child 
por-
nography is immoral, believes abortion 
is murder. This is not a matter of 
sophistication, just conviction. This is 
how a minister from southern Virginia 
can come and speak before a throng of 
presumably bright and politically-
minded studen ts, and confound them 
all. It's religion getting in the way of 

But in the end, that's all we really 
have to go on, isn't it? Faith, feeling, 
religion, whatever we choose to call it. 
And 
it 
ultimately doesn't 
matter 
whether that faith comes from Soc-
rates, J esus C hrist or Russell Baker. 
Yet we shouldn't let convictions mas-
querade as -political arguments and 
assume that others who don't catch on 
are morally wrong. We shouldn't dis-
claim the· sincerity or plausibility of so-
meone else's ideology, or else we fall 
into the same blind trap, the same self-
righteousness, that I think the Moral 
Majority falls into. 

Many people within the liberally 
educated elite try to make the evangel-
icals understand that they must keep 
politics and religion separate. They 
think there is something unsophisti-
cated, something unconstitutional 
even, about a lawmaker allowing his 
private morality to influence 
his 
political stance. Legislating morality, 
they call it. But they think nothing 
when they color their politics with their 
own brand of faith, a faith that is every 
bit as sacred to them as the Word is to 
a Baptist pastor. Like some set funda-
mentalist, they fail to perceive their 
mora.lity as a morality in a philo-
sophical sense, as some debatable way 
of looking at the world. 

The confusion and hypocrisy which 
result when these people presume that 
politics should be amoral is nowhere 
more evident than in the rhetorical 
gymnastics of President G iamatti. The 
president of Yale has thought it ap-
propriate on occasion to use the Yale 
podium for making veiled statements 
about public prayer and abortion, for 
example, but has implied that people 
like Falwell, because they are religious 
men, should not involve themselves in 
the political process. The president of 
Yale has issued a statement pledging 
financial assistance to draft resisters, 
but has not permitted a Yale singing 
grou p to broadcast the Solidarity an-
them over Voice of America because it 
would constitute a political act. I don't 
get it. 

But then there are a lot of things I 
still don't understand about all of this. 
The confusion I felt as I walked out in-
to the rainy night a fter the Falwell 
episode remains for me largely that-
confusion. I remember holding in my 
hand a book of matches that Cal 
Thomas, the vice-president of M oral 
Majority, Inc., had been passing out 
to the crowd. "Moral Majority Book 
Burning Matches," it said, with the 
organization's logo emblazoned in red, 
white and blue. "See o fficial book list 
inside." Curious, I flipped open the 
matchbook and there was only a blank 
list with numerals where the indexed 
books should have been and a dozen 
pieces of bald cardboard instead of 
matches. "That's right ... there 
aren't any!!!" it -said, and I could only 
laugh, because the truth was that Yale 
was the only thing that was burned 
that night. 
• 
W. Hampton Sides, a junior in Ezra Stiles, 
is an associate editor f?fTNJ . 
The opinions expressed in this section are 
those of the individual writers. ThL N~w.fournal 
welcomes leuen. to the editor. and comment 
on Yale and New Haven issues. Write to 3432 
Yale Station. New Haven. C T 06520. All let· 
ters for publication must include address and 
sil{nature. 



**Title: Comment Only sixteen: women and tenure at Yale**
**Author: Leslie Koch**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In 1972, you could count the number 
of Yale's tenured women professors on 
one hand. There were two. That year, 
Federal regulations compelled Yale to 
use affirmative action guidelines in its 
promotion and hiring of faculty. To-
day, there are 16 women in the senior 
ranks of the Faculty of Arts and Sci-
ences-eight times the number a 
decade ago. But these women repre-sent less than five percent of Yale's 325 
tenured faculty members. In more 
than two thirds of Yale's departments, 
there are no tenured women at all. 
Yale has failed to meet its own pro-
jection that seven percent of the 
tenured faculty would be women. The 
number of women on the junior faculty 
has actually declined since 1976. Yale 
rarely awards tenure; some depart-
ments may not have open positions for 
years. This semester, there is a faculty 
committee to investigate the problem 
of "women and tenure." The commit-
tee, and the Yale Administrators, need 
to take a long, hard look at Yale's 
tenure record, its affirmative action 
policy and its treatment of women 
scholars. 

The first place the committee should 
look is in Yale's own history books. 
Although there's recently been a dra-
matic change in attitudes, Yale's treat-
ment of women scholars was frequent-
ly far from exemplary. Until the 1960s, 
for example, they weren't even allowed 
in Sterling Library's L&B room. Wo-
men have attended the graduate and 
professional schools here since the 
1890s but Yale rarely asked them to 
join the faculty; it wasn't until 1945 
that the Administration permitted a


woman to teach undergraduates. She 
never received tenure. Yale did not 
grant tenure to a woman until 1959. 

The second place to look is Yale's list 
of open tenured positions. It's very 
short. Most departments tell their 
assistant professors that their chances 
for tenure are slim. According to cur-
rent statistics, less than seven of the 70 
women now on the junior faculty can 
expect tenure. Justifiably, Yale points 
with pride to the improvement in the 
overall number of women on the facul-
ty. But, many departments, including 
those without any tenured women, 
face severe economic constraints. In 
the words of Yale's own affirmative ac-
tion officer, "the influx of women just 
started too late." In the next decade, 
Yale will extend relatively few tenure 
offers so it can't see comparable ad-
vances in' the number of women. 

The third place to look is the affir-
mative action office, but the committee 
might have trouble finding it. It's 
located (along with the Women's 
Studies program) in a small cottage 
between a parking lot and the alley 
next to Naples Pizza. There, a staff of 
two ensures that all of Yale's depart-
ments, schools and offices provide 
equal opportunity in the hiring and 
promotion of 6, 700 staff and faculty 
members. 

Fran Holloway, the office's director, 
compiles statistics about Yale's promo-
tion and hiring records. She also 
"monitors" departments' searches for 
faculty members. But she does not help 
recruit women and can only "recom-
mend" after a search that a department 
look again for more women candi-
dates. 

According to Margaret Ferguson, 
associate professor of English, "the of-
fice doesn't seem to apply much pres-
sure except in the ambiguous role of an 
after the fact check." Many other facul-
ty members agree that the office has lit-
tle clout. Historv Professor Donald 
Kagan charges, "It's basically involved 
in paperwork." Until this year, then-
Associate Provost Sherry Penney over-
saw the office and Yale's affirmative ac-
tion policy. But, said one faculty 
member, "the grapevine had it that she 
wasn't particularly forceful." 

Yale's affirmative action office 
shouldn't just be 
a 
"numbers 
cruncher." It needs to be more visible 
in a department's hiring discussions. It 
should also, following the Tobin Com-
mittee's recommendation, help keep 
track of the women in each field. The 
old argument to explain the low num-
ber of tenured women is "there just 
aren't any." Because certain fields have 
relatively few women, the adminis-
trators should insure that all of Yale's 
departments conduct exhaustive 
searches for women candidates. It 
shouldn't look at tenure decisions "after 
the fact"; a token woman on a list of 
candidates doesn't mean that a depart-
ment has fairly considered the women 
in the field. 

But, as the committee probably 
knows, attracting a scholar to a ten-
ured professorship isn't like hiring a file 
clerk or even an assistant professor. 
Strengthening the affirmative action 
office does not entirely solve the prob-
lem. Faculty members' attitudes 
toward tenure slow progress on the 
"women and tenure" problem. 

Departments vigorously defend 
their autonomy in tenure decisions. 
Affirmative action, by requiring Yale 
to "look over the shoulder" of its facul-
ty, is an example of government inter-
ference. One case at the University of 
Georgia demonstrates how intense 
feeling may be: a professor, dressed in 
his academic robes, went to jail for 90 
days rather than reveal his vote in a 
tenure decision. 

The Yale administrators aren't eager 
to step into the tenure review process. 
Provost William Brainard, who is also 
a professor of economics, approves all 
faculty positions and searches. With af-
firmative action, he sees his role as one 
of "moral suasion." "Is it the Ad-
ministration's role to inject its own 
judgment about the qualifications of 
people?" he asked. "The answer is no." 

No one would suggest that admin-


istrators should dictate tenure deci-
sions. But tenure needn't be sacro-
sanct. Yale can interfere with a depart-
ment which has a questionable record 
of promoting women without threaten-
ing its academic freedom. Many facul-
ty members are unsure of the Ad-
ministration's whole-hearted commit-
ment to affirmative action and the ac-
tive recruitment of women. 

The recent cases in the Economics 
Department raise doubts about the ad-
ministration's willingness to put their 
muscle behind their public rhetoric 
about promoting women. Within two 
years two women were denied tenure; 
they were the first women from the 
department who were reviewed for 
tenure. Each had been on the faculty 
for eight years. Sharon Oster taught 
the department's most popular course. 
She is now at Yale's School of Organ-
ization and Management. 
Susan 
Ackerman, along with her husband, 
former Law School Professor Bruce 
Ackerman, left Yale for tenured posi-
tions at Columbia. 
Neither the 
Economics nor the Political Science 
Department has any tenured women. 

It may be coincidental that two 
women in two years didn't receive 
tenure. Neither charges sex discrimin-
ation. For the field, Yale has a relative-
ly high number of women on its junior 
faculty and in its graduate school. Of 
the nation's top 
five 
Economics 
Departments, only MIT has a tenured 
woman professor. 

When Ackerman and Oster were 
turned down, the Economics Depart-
ment had open tenured slots and made 
offers to male professors. Today, there 
are still two unfilled positions. And, 
one member of the department sug-
gests that the Administration could 
have done more to encourage the pro-
motion of women. 

"This was a golden opportunity. 
There was a strong affirmative action 
issue in both the Economics and 
Political Science Departments," Pro-
fessor Richard Nelson said. "The Pro-
vost could have used the opportunity to 
put that forth." 

"The availability of resources was 
not the central issue," Brainard said. 
The Provost's office has money avail-
able specifically to encourage the 
employment of women and minority 
scholars. He asserts that, if the Ad-
ministration had offered money when 
the department had openings, it would 
have been "like making a position with 
someone's name on it." 

Nelson levels another charge against 
the Administration. "The economics 
department was not overwhelmed by 
pressure from the Administration in 
these cases." 

"The administrators went out of 
their way to say there was no 
pressure," the 
department's 
chair, 
Merton J. Peck, said, although he had 
"extensive" conversations with both 
Brainard and Giamatti. 

The Provost defends his role and the 
Administration's procedures. "There 
was more time spent, more careful 
review of these cases than average," he 
said. "The Department acted in good 
faith." 

There's no easy answer to the most 
obvious question: did Ackerman and 
Oster deserve tenure? Members of the 
Department weren't willing to discuss 
the specifics of the decisions. More-
over, there are no absolute criteria for 
granting tenure in any department at 
Yale. 

Many tenure decisions have gen-
erated controversy. But in Oster and 
Ackerman's cases, the dispute centers 
on the administrators' role and how the 
senior faculty perceived Yale's commit-
ment to the promotion of women. 

Another case, in the School of Art, 
raises more questions. The School 
recently awarded tenure to a male pro-
fessor, after the Provost held "exten-
sive" discussions with the School's 
Dean about the need for more women 
faculty. Currently, there are none with 
tenure, although the School has tradi-
tionally attracted many women grad-
uate students. 

According 
to one 
source, several women on the junior 
faculty have recently made complaints 
about unfair treatment.SamiaHalaby, 
who was denied tenure last year, has 
now brought a grievance charging sex 
discrimination. It might be years 
before the department can consider 
junior faculty women for other open-
ings. 

The committee will find that Yale 
isn't alone in its dilemma improving 
the low number of tenured women. 
Women hold less than five percent of 
the tenured positions at many Ivy 
League universities. Yale may be dif-
ferent because it hasn't yet received 
public attention about a sex discrim-
ination in tenure case. Last year, for 
example, Harvard attracted national 
publicity when a grievance committee 
supported sociologist Theda Skocpol's 
charge that sex discrimination affected 
her tenure decision. 

Skocpol, who now has a tenured 
position at the University of Chicago, 
argues that schools like Harvard and 
Yale are less receptive to changing 
their traditions in order to provide 
more opportunities for women. 

"Although Chicago is no feminist 
place," she remarked, "women hold 
nine percent of its senior faculty posi-
tions." Ivy League institutions, by con-
trast, don't want to abandon the "old 
boy" hiring network and ingrained at-
titudes about tenure and women, she 
says. 

Skocpol may be right. At Yale, 
many doors (not just those in the L&B 
room) have begun opening for women. 
But its tradition makes it less receptive 
to change. There's an affirmative ac-
tion office but, in the view of many of 
Yale's own faculty, it has little clout or 
influence on tenure decisions. There 
are administrators who are personally 
committed to the advancement of 
women but who are not willing to use 
their offices' power to back their com-
mitment. And there's a senior faculty 
which, 
despite many individuals 
dedicated to equal opportunity, still 
has only 16 women- not enough to 
form a "critical mass" or "old girl" hir-
ing network of their own to promote 
women candidates in tenure searches. 

And now there's a committee which 
has the potential to be much more than 
a rubber stamp on Yale's affirmative 
action and tenure policies. It has the 
power to investigate all aspects of the 
"women and tenure" problem. It's 
charge is to answer the question, "why 
aren't there more women on Yale's 
senior faculty?" In the process, it can 
raise difficult issues and perhaps pro-
vide solutions for the second decade of 
women and affirmative action at Yale. 

Leslie Koch is a junior in Trumbull. 



**The spirit of the spirits shop**
**Author: Shelj. Russell**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
, I 
The spirit of the spirits shop 
After 15 years, he had become more 
than a familiar face. He was like an 
institution, a piece of the campus' 
furniture. He was known by the proprietors up and down the strip as the 
Mayor of Broadway, the captain of 
the block from Co-op West to Trum-
bull College. Others knew him as 
Dali's Pryde, the streetwise mascot of 
the Quality Wine Shop who liked to 
park himself in the crowded doorway 
~nd stare blankly as people stumbled 
tn. 
But most people knew him as 
Snoopy. 
Snoopy died last month at the ripe 
old age of 105-dog years, that is. 
Over time the registered Pembroke 
Welsh Corgi began to lose his 
eyesight and his hearing, and in 
December he suffered a pinched 
nerve in his spine that left him im-
mobile. Reluctantly, Quality Wine 
Shop owner Elliot Brause had Snoopy 
put to sleep. "It was the hardest thine 
I've ever done in my life," said 
Brause. 
Snoopy was born on May 17, 
196 7. (Ironically, Brause's birthday is 
May 17 as well.) Snoopy came to 
work at Quality Wine for the first 
time 13 years ago. And although 
people occasionally stepped on him 
and tripped over him and tried to 
pick him up in their arms (he didn't 
like to be picked up), Snoopy never 
missed a single workday in all those 
years. He accompanied Brause on 
every liquor and keg delivery he ever 
made. He soon became the center-
piece of the. package store's advertis-
ing strategy, appearing on T -shirts 
and in newspaper advertisements. 
Sometimes Snoopy wore a tutu or a 
Halloween mask or a Santa's hat. In 
one ad, which never ran, Snoopy 
made an appearance as the "quality 
control expert" for the wine shop, 
urinating on a "bad" keg. 
The Mayor of Broadway never 
took a drink in his life, but he saw 
more liquor come and go than any 
drinking man (or woman) would ever 
care to handle. He presided over the 
shop with an air of indifference so 
complete that he sometimes seemed 
anti-social. He respected students as 
long as they didn't touch him, but he 
absolutely would not tolerate other 
dogs on his territory. "He was ex-
tremely possessive of the place," 
remembered Brause, "and quite pro-
tective of the block. This was his 
turf. He never bit or attacked a 
single person, but he just didn't like 
other dogs. He would fight off ten 
dogs at the same time if he had to. 
We had to glue him together a cou-
ple of times, he was so beat up. He 
had patches on his eye and his nose, 
and one time his ear just about fell 
off. But the worst thing that ever 
happened to him was the day he got 
mugged by a cat." 
Snoopy left behind his wife Pep-
permint Patty, a seven-year-old Cor-
gi, but no children. "At least none 
that we know of," said Brause. The 
wine merchant tried unsuccessfully to 
mate the two Corgies over the years. 
But for Snoopy and Patty, it was 
strictly a Platonic relationship. "I 
guess Snoopy just didn't want to ruin 
a good friendship, if you know what 
I mean," explained Brause. 
Peppermint Patty doesn't like the 
life of spirit shop mascot as much as 
Snoopy did, so she stays at home half 
the time. "She's not as attuned to the 
store as Snoopy was," explained 
Brause, "and she's not as streetwise, 
either." But Brause will continue to 
deal in Welsh Corgis, and the Quali-
ty Wine Shop logo will remain the 
same, with the profile of the late 
Snoopy at the center of it all. 
"Snoopy was one of the constants of 
the block, and I guess for some he 
always will be." 


**Backstage at the Rap**
**Author: Jim Lowe**

The Yale Repertory Theatre has 
always been known for its innova-
tion, and this winter it is continuing 
the tradition. Starting this Saturday 
afternoon at 5p.m. the Rep will pre-
sent a series of six seminars on the 
"Birth and Development of the New 
Play" in conjunction with its annual 
Winterfest program of new plays. 

This year, the third for the 
Winterfest program, the Rep is 
presenting three new plays in pro-
gress. Each of these works are still in 
the process of development. The pur-
pose of the Winterfest is to give 
playwrights an opportunity to see 
how their creation appears on a stage 
and how an audience reacts to it. Of 
the three plays, two were written by 
Yale's own: Astapovo br Leon Katz, a 
professor at the Schoo of Drama, and 
Coyote Ugly by Lynn Siefert, a third 
year Drama graduate student. 

According to Rosalind H ienz, 
communications director of the Rep, 
the plays in Winterfest show only 
part of what goes into the writing 
and presentation of a new work. It is 
the rest of the art of creation and 
development that the six seminars 
will try to address. "They will try to 
explain what are the steps between 
the written script and the play on the 
stage, what are the processes that go 
into making a play successful," said 
Heinz. 

The first of the seminars, entitled 
"Blood and Sweat . . . Directing The 
New Play," will feature a panel of 
Hal Prince, the Rep's own Lloyd 
Richards and Gordon Davidson. 
Future seminars will focus on theatre 
critics, casting, contemporary 
playwrighting among other topics. 

"These discussions should be 
fascinating for anyone interested in 
contemporary theatre," said Heinz. 
"But it will not all necessarily be 
pleasant to hear. Some of it may be 
quite disconcerting." 

The Rep urges those interested in 
either the Winterfest plays or in the 
seminars to reserve tickets as far in 
advance as possible, as the availabili-
ty is limited. 


**Moose Is loose, again**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 11**

It was a year ago this month that 
Yale's "Oldest R esidential College 
Daily," the Ezra Stiles Daily Moose 
Dispatch, published its first issue. 
Everyone laughed, but no one paid 
much attention in the beginning to 
the "plucky, burgeoning young 
daily." The idea was novel, but the 
founders of the DMD had a little 
more than novelty in mind when 
they cranked ou t over fot·ty issues 
during the semester and acquired a 
loyal following. And now, after a 
semester-long hiatus, the satire 
tabloid is back in print. 

A humorous, fictitious newspaper 
that chronicled events and life in 
Ezra Stiles College, the Moose made 
the nightly journey from pressroom 
3120 E.S. to G nomon Copy to the 
Ezra Stiles dining hall, where it sur-
passed the acclaimed salad bar as the 
leading topic of meal-time talk. After 
34 consecutive issues, Moose staffer 
Walter M anny '82 and W. H ampton 
Sides '84 finally had to modify the 
daily production schedule. The 
Oldest Residential College Daily then 
became the Oldest Occasional 
R esidential College Weekly Daily, a 
"revolutionary concept in printing 
frequency ." The paper explained the 
new schedule in a short notice: "The 
Moose will heretofore appear occa-
sionally daily, and daily, occasional-
ly, and not at all, occasionally, 
although never always not; but not 
always, however, for it will occa-
s~onally reappear daily, and some-
~tmes not even occasionally daily, but 
JUst plain ole daily." 

Contacted in Cambridge, former 
publisher Manny expressed surprise 
at the Moose's resurrection. "Well, I'm 
thrilled, of course, and naturaUy a bi1 
appaUed," commented Manny in a 
telephone interview. "The Moose was 
always, in my day, the pinnacle of ir-
responsible journalism, and as an 
alumnus, I would hope that the 
paper maintains its sordid position in 
the ranks of Yale publications." 

But veteran Moose staffer Thomas 
McQuillen '84 has visions for the 
J:foose that extend beyond Manny's 
JOurnalistic aims. Asked about these 
visions, Mclluillen responded 
'ou re forcing my hand. Walter was 
a funny guy, but he had no vision. 
He _th_ought it was enough to be 
sadtsttcaUy irreverent. Now we are 
Pursuing a journalistic anti-ethic. 
Our ultimate aim is the erradication 
of people's perverse addiction to truth 
in all its pitiable forms." "The only 
story we won't print," agrees co-
staffer Sides, "is anything that has its 
basis in reality. But despite this 
stipulation, it's still more believable 
than what you will find in the Yale 
Daily News." 

Last year's Moose featured behind-
the-scenes coverage of major disasters 
("Stiles Tower Collapses," "Stiles to 
Cede Gimbel Cup," "Dining Hall 
Vanishes"), scandals ("Dramat Filches 
Oil Rig," "Stiles Moose is Really a 
Mastodon, Expert Determines," "Is 
R abbit Meat Really R eally Soylent 
Green?") and athletics ("Mooses Sign 
Reggie Jackson! Ex-Yank Promises 
H e'll Capture Tyng for Stiles in '82") 
But probably the most popular story 
last year was "Luvbeat: SEX Scandal 
Rocks College," in which a "roving 
DMD shutterbug" photographed an 
"unidentified gigolo in bed with the 
A. Bartlett Giamatti Moose, telling 
an invidious tale of cheap sex, if not 
tawdry bestiality of the worst possible 
sort." 

Aside from supplying rea~ers with 
the "real scoop" ("Read your NYT to-
day, and get the inside story later"), 
th e Moose provided two advice col-
umns, "Deer Moose" and "Ask Sa-
lada," as well as its own gossip col-
umn, "Sleeping Together." It also 
featured regular cartoons by Stiles 
senior J ohn Zin sser, called "Zins-
serines," which became a trademark 
of the publication. 

Sides explains that the idea behind 
the Moosls 
was to "make 
people feel that if they didn't know 
what we were talking about, then 
they'd better find out. And 
everybody wanted to find out. We'd 
miss a day and people would be 
banging on the tables with their forks 
and knives yelling, 'We wan t Moose!" 

The new Moose has big plans for 
the semester. "Yes, we have several 
returning lettermen," says Sides, "and 
we're even thinking about going na-
tional. And I'd like to put the back 
issues in a bound volume and sell the 
book for $19.95 over midnight T.V." 

Also, there is talk of a Moose pin-up 
calendar: "Stiles Men of '83: R eal 
Men Eat Moosemeat." 

But for the most devoted staffers, 
the Moose is more than a newspaper; 
it's a whole way of life. "We don't 
just write the Moose," explains Mc-
Quillen. "We subjugate all personal 
identity to it. For instance, we began 
all our board meetings with Walter 
[Manny] chanting 'See the Moose, 
BE the Moose.' It's kind of like hot 
tubs, you know?" 

"Nothing will change," assures 
Sides. "All good things don't come to 
an end. We will still be yelling 
'Copy!' and 'Put 'er to bed boys' in 
the middle of the night. The Moose 
will continue to be outrageous and, 
of course, without journalistic 
scruples." Adds lVk Quillen, "Who 
needs the truth when smut is so 
much more fun?'· 


**The Survivors Speak**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 12**

•



**Title: The Survivors**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
She did not know the names of the peo-
ple who were coming that night and 
she was not certain what she was going 
to do once she had filmed them telling 
their stories. It was May 2, 1979. In-
side a small office near Yale-New 
Haven Hospital, 
Laurel Vlock, a 
short, thin 56-year-old independent 
television producer, checked the posi-
tions of the camera and the chairs. She 
was fiddling with the armchair in the 
corner when Eva Benda walked in. 
"The startling thing for me," Mrs. 
Vlock recalled, "was that I knew Eva 
Benda. She was the wife of a Yale pro-
fessor who had been very, very gra-
cious to me. He was a frequent guest 
on my television program. And I had 
met his wife. I had heard her accent 
but ... I can only plead stupidity, ig-
norance. What can I say?" 

They were in Dr. Dori Laub's 
office,on the second floor of a brown 
high rise on Howard Avenue. Mrs. 
Vlock had brought the camera crew. 
Dr. Laub, a Yale-affiliated psychiatrist 
and a survivor of a Nazi concentration 
camp, found four Holocaust survivors 
willing to be interviewed, one of whom 
was Eva Benda. 

Mrs. Benda sat in the padded arm-
chair Mrs. Vlock had arranged in one 
corner of the 16'-by- 14' room that just 
barely accommodated all the people 
and equipment. The camera focused 
on Mrs. Benda; Dr. Laub and Mrs. 
Vlock sat out of the camera's range. 
"Where are you from?" Dr. Laub 
asked. 
"I grew up in Czechoslovakia," Mrs. 
Benda said. "I went to school there and 
lived there through my teens." 
"Do you remember very much?" 
"Oh, yes. I remember the walks we 
used to take up to the castle on the hill 
and then back." 

M~s . Benda sat stiffiy in the chair. 
Sh~ IS a short woman with a sturdy 
bu1ld and a look very different from 
Mrs. Vlock. Mrs. Vlock has an emo-
tive face- wide eyes with wrinkled 
pockets and an expression that seems 
to r~veal some strange mixture of in-
tensuy, impatience and fatigue. Mrs. 
Benda has much more impenetrable 
features- a taut face with dark thick 
eyebrows accenting her features: Mrs. 
~enda spoke matter-of-factly, almost 
Impersonally, 
about arriving at 
Laurel Vlock, co-founder of the proJect 
Auschwitz, being stripped, 
shaved 
and marched naked past German 
soldiers with machine guns. Only the 
subtle movements of her face, the 
slight tightening of one corner of her 
lip, the tension in her smile, betrayed 
the controlled exterior. 

Mrs. Benda did not cry. But by the 
time she finished her story, Mrs. Vlock 
and the camera crew were in tears. 
The camerawoman 
was not sure 
whether to stop taping when Mrs. 
Vlock, her voice high-pitched and 
broken, stumbled over her words: 
"1-1-1 ... I just want to hold you 
and be your family," she told Mrs. 
Benda. "I don't want you to be alone." 
"Thank you," Mrs. Benda said. •y 
appreciate that." 

The camera shut down but the 
awkwardness remained. "Nobody 
seemed to know what to do," Mrs. 


Benda later explained. "To shake 
hands and say goodbye didn't seem ap· 
propriate." But two other surivors, 
Leon Weinberg and Sally Horowitz, 
were already waiting in the adjoining 
room. Walking through the waiting 
room, Mrs. Benda noticed Mrs. Hor-
owitz had brought her husba:nd along 
for support. Mrs. Benda recalled, "I 
didn't like going home alone." 

Mrs. Vlock knew the next survivor, 
Leon Weinberg, as an amiable and 
successful baker in Hamden. He had 
baked a special cake with raisins and 
fruit in it for her parents' anniversary 
several years earlier. 
"The only thought in them days was 
hunger," Mr. Weinberg told his inter-
viewers, his watery eyes expressing 
simple, unsuppressed sadnes!J. "When 
you're hungry, it gets to a point where 
you don't mind stealing from your own 
sister, from your own father. I would 
get up in the middle of the night and 
slice a piece of bread off my sister's ra· 
tion." 
"Leon, I tell you ," Mrs. Vlock said 
at the conclusion of his story. "When I 
think of speaking to you in a normal 
way to order a cake . . . " 

The last survivor that night was 
Renee Hartman, an art dealer, writer 
andJewish activist. Her husband, Yale 
professor Geoffrey Hartman, later 
became an adviser to the project. 
Although she was in her mid-forties, 
Mrs. Hartman had a very young, in-
nocent face and very fair skin that 
flushed as the taping progressed. 

Separated from her parents and 
abandoned on the streets of Bratislava, 
Czechoslovakia, by a farmer who 
would no longer hide her, Mrs. Hart-
man, then nine years old, assumed 
responsiblity for her deaf sister, then 
seven. For three weeks, the two girls 
wandered the streets of this town where 
almost all the Jews, including their 
parents, had already been transported 
away to the camps. 
"I suddenly realized," Mrs. Hart· 
man said, "I might have been one of 
the last Jews in the town. I remember 
thinking, 'I don't want to be the last 
one alive.'" 

In desperation, she and her sister 
gave themselves up to the Gestapo and 
were eventually sent to Bergen-Belsen 
concentration camp. "When I was in 


camp," Mrs. Hartman said , "I man-
aged to find a roll of toilet paper and I 
managed also to barter something I 
had for a pencil. I was writing down 
everything that was happening to me, 
my longings, my fears. At one point 
this roll was found in one of the search-
es by the soldiers. I remember seeing 
the soldier sitting on the lower bunk 
reading it and laughing and finding it 
very amusing. When I rushed up to 
snatch it, he pulled it away and said, 
'No, this is 1 
good for you.' One of 
the things I remember him saying was, 
'She has a wonderful sense of humor.' 
And I didn't re ·~ mber anything funny 
in it. I remer ..er saying, 'you may 
have taken that roll but you haven't 
stopped me.from writing.'" 

Taping ended at about 
a.m. 
Laurel Ylock drove to her home in 
Hamden and hardly slept for the next 
three nights. She realized this was the 
beginning of a much larger project. Al-
though many books, documentaries 
and audiotapes already depicted the 
survivors' experiences, no medium ac-
tually showtd them telling their stories. 
To witness each witness's painful ex-
cavation of memory, to watch Renee 
Hartman demonstrate with her hands 
ho~ the German soldier unrolled her 
makeshift diary, was like watching the 
person relive the event. 
"I didn't know what to do with this 
stuff," Mrs. Vlock said. "This wasn't 
like reading it." 



**Title: The Farband**
**Page number(s): 15**

II. 
The Farband meets in the downstairs 
room of The Westville Synagogue at 3 
p.m. on the first Sunday of every 
month. They are a lively, jovial group 
of middle-aged Jewish couples. They 
speak Yiddish at their meetings and 
contribute money to the UnitedJewish 
Appeal, Israel Bonds, and tree-plant-
ing in Israel. 

The Farband's president, William 
Rosenberg, is a genial, gre~arious man 
who somewhat paternalistically refers-
to the members as "my membership." 
He explained that the Farband is a 
kind of family. Most of the group's 120 
members are Holocaust survivors, 
many of whom lost all of their real 
family during the war. Mr. Rosen-
berg, for example, is the only one of96 
relatives to survive; his mother starved 
to death while he and his six brothers 
and sisters could do nothing but offer 
her a glass of water. 

Mrs. Vlock and Dr. Laub came to 
Mr. Rosenberg's group on June 3, 
1979, to ask for money to edit and 
make more tapes. Because of the old 
age of most survivors, Mrs. Vlock told 
them, it is important to begin taping 
before there are no survivors left. 
'"The survivors survived in order to 
bear witness,"' she 
said , 
quoting 
novelist Elie Wiesel. It was not a new 
idea for the Farband but it did evoke 
many contradictory feelings. Some of 
those present still had trouble talking 
about their experiences. Most of them 
discovered when they came to the 
United States after the war that people 
did not want to hear what had hap-
pened to them. Many, like Sylvia 
~tatlender, had not spoken about it 
smce they came to this country. The 
only survivor in a family of more than 
100, Mrs. Statlender said that not only 
did others not want to hear but also 
thought to herself, "It's terrible. What 
are you going to say?" But she also 
wondered why she alone survived, and 
thought that maybe it was because God 
Wanted her to tell what happened. 

When Mrs. Vlock spoke, Mrs. Stat-
l':nder cried. To Mrs. Vlock, the au-
daence looked haunted. 
•It was very painful for Laurel and it 
was very painful for my members," 
Mr. Rosenberg recalled. Before the 
meeting was over, 
the 
Farband 
pledged $1,700 to the project. More 
than 60 of them later agreed to be 
filmed; approximately 18 of them had 
never talked about it before. 

One thing puzzled some of the Far-
band members: Why would Laurel 
Vlock, a 
well-off, American-born 
woman with a nice home in the 
suburbs and no relatives from the 
camps, want to hear about the horrible 
things that happened to them? Some 
suspected a profit motive. Others 
assumed she wanted to distinguish 
herself professionally. Still others, in-
cluding Mrs. Rosenberg, believed she 
did it because she is "a good Jew." 

Mrs. Vlock was encouraged to begin 
this project after the success of an 
award-winning documentary she 
filmed on the dedication of the 
Holocaust Memorial in New Haven. 
But she had always been deeply con-
cerned about the Holocaust. She was 
twelve years old when the war broke 



**Title: A Documentary Project: Preserving the Stories of Holocaust Survivors**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
out, and because her parents were 
Jewish activists, it disrupted life in her 
home. "We talked about 
this 
endlessly," she said. "My parents were 
very upset. There were all kinds of 
meetings, letters, phone calls. It was 
part of the fabric of my life.". 

III. 
In November, 1979, Laurel Vlock 
travelled to Germany, Austria, and 
Czechoslovakia to see the scenes of the 
stories she had been told. "I had to feel 
where these people came from," she 
said. "I could no longer go on talking to 
them and have no real sense of the 
landscape." 
At Dachau concentration camp in 
West Germany, she walked through 
the bleak parade ground . where a 
monument to the dead now stands but 
once thousands of the living stood to be 
counted. 
"It was cold," Mrs Vlock said. "And 
I remember the first thing I ever heard 
was Eva Benda talking about how bit-
terly cold it can be in Poland in the fall. 
It was bitter cold. And it was bleak and 
it was damp. It was miseraQie to walk 
around there for even an hour, and I 
was properly dressed. I couldn't stop 
visualizing those people standing there 
for hours on end. I thought I under-
stood it at the time that she said it, but 
I don't really think I understood it until 
I was there. 
"The thing that bothered me the 
most, really gives me the chills: to be in 
there and to know that everything you 
knew was outside and nothing that you 
knew was inside, but this was your 
world. To be physically near the walls, 
knowing there was just this thing, this 
cement, between you and the rest of 
the world." 
She also went to Mauthausen con-
centration camp in Austria- an im-
posing, cold stone fortress on a hill. 
Mauthausen was less a monument or a 
museum, more a concentration camp 
that had been abandoned. At Ausch-
witz, there were extensive written and 
photographic 
displays. 
At 
Mauthausen, 
there 
was 
a 
small 
museum but no guides or directions. 
"There are gas chambers and torture 
rooms underneath," Mrs. Vlock said, 
"but no one to show you where they 
are. You have to find them for 
yourself." 


The six members of Vlock's group 
wandered through the place. In some 
spots, people had pasted pictures of lost 
relatives on the wall alongside wreaths 
and flowers. Mrs. Vlock found one of 
the gas chambers; it was a 15'-by-15' 
square room with concrete walls and a 
heavy metal door. One light bulb 
dangled from the ceiling. The gas jets 
resembled shower heads, but upon see-
ing them Mrs. Vlock was sure the vic-
tims had known they were not shower 
heads as soon as they had entered the 
room. 
Mrs. Vlock came all the way from 
Vienna to see this place because her 
son had been there nine years before 
on a United Jewish Appeal trip for col-
lege students. The students walked in-
side the gas chambers. One of the 
group leaders switched ofT the light and 
slammed the door. Mrs. Vlock had 
read her son's diary describing that ex-
perience before she went to Europe. 
Now, 
alone in this part of the 
underground of Mauthausen, 
she 
closed the chamber door behind her. 
She wanted to hear the sound that her 
son- and the victims- had heard. 
"But something else came to me at 
that time, when I was in that room," 
Mrs. Vlock remembered. "I never 
~\ 
heard it described by anyone else this 
way. This was a man, a survivor I had 
taped, who described the clean-up 
detail he was assigned to. When they 
would push everyone into the room, it 
would be filled to capacity. When the 
doors opened, the room was only one-
third 
full. 
The reason was 
that 
everybody pressed to one corner to get 
away from the jets and towards where 
the air was pure. So when they opened 
up the doors each and every time, all 
the bodies were pressed into one-third 
the space." 
Towards the end of her visit to 
Mauthausen, Mrs. Vlock felt numbed 
and then felt 
guilty about being 
numbed. But to this day, she said, she 
remembers the configuration of the 
grass, the cement paths. She remem-
bers the face of the survivor who told of 
the gas chamber~. "I can see his face, 
black hair, gutteral voice," she said. 
"He was quite matter-of-fact about it." 
One of her last stops was Bratislava. 
She went there just to see the cob-
blestone streets on which Renee Hart-
man and her sister ran before giving 
themselves up to the Gestapo. "It's a 
dreary town," Mrs. Vlock said. "Very 
grim, gray stone buildings and cob-
blestone streets." The people did not 


IV. 
Between February and May, 1980, 
Mrs. Vlock and Dr. Laub interviewed 
about 150 survivors in the Bank of 
New Haven Building, on Church 
Street. One of the first was Menachem 
Stern, 
heavy-set, 
thick-bearded 
Israeli who is a visiting doctor at Yale 
University Health Services. 
The crew tested the equipment as 
Stern talked about his decision to par-
ticipate in the project. Until recently, 
he told them, he had never watched 
any movies or read any books or even 
spoken about the Holocaust. Then one 
day he decided to watch the TV movie 
"Holocaust" with his family. 
"By the end of it," he said, "we were 
all crying, and my nine-year-old said 
to me, 'Hey Daddy, you're crying,' and 
I said, 'Yeah, you're crying too.' I 
asked her, 'Why are you crying here?' 
and she said, 'I cry for all those poor · 
people. Why do you cry?' I said, 'Well, 
I really cry for myself.' She said. 'What 
do you mean for yourself?' 'Well, you 
know, I was part of it.' She looked at 
me and said, 'Daddy, I never knew. 
Why didn't you tell me?' For once in 
my life, I was speechless. I realized I 
wasn't able to tell her." 
Dr. Stern was five years old when 
his parents bundled him up, stuck the 
directions to a whorehouse in his hand, 
and sent him alone at night through an 
escape route out of their labor camp 
~ear Cracow, Poland. For part of that 
ttme, he survived on his own, begging 
and stealing with other street children. 
By some miracle, both he and his 
parents survived the war, and moved 
to Israel in 1950. He was one of two 
survivors out of the 4,000 children in 
that camp. 
"I was the only survivor my age that 
I ever knew," he said in a recent inter-
view. "There was no one who could 
understand the things 
I'd been 
"If anyone had told us the 
world knew. I'm afraid more 
people would have commit· 
ted suicide." 
through." His parents would not take 
him to meetings with other survivors 
for fear he would remind the others of 
the children they had lost. They did 
not speak of the Holocaust in their 
home. So Dr. Stern denied it had any 
effect on him. He lost his accent and 
became accepted as a native Israeli 
boy. The film project provided him 
with a new beginning. "It helped me to 
come out of the closet," he said. "It 
gave me a place among survivors." 
But now Dr. Stern has another 
problem. He is not sure how and when 
to present his experiences to his two 
daughters. "Do I want it to become a 
reality for them? Should.! put them too 
much in this perspective of mine? It's 
very hard for me to trust people. I have 
what I call Jewish paranoia. Is it right 
for me to give them the same sense of 
insecurity that I have? 
"I think children should first be ex-
posed to love rather than hate, first in-
tr<x\uced to tenderness rather than 
violence. My personal story is not im-
portant. I would like them to get the 
message that they should be caring and 
loving and compassionate and under-
standing-and you know what? For-
giving. Forgiving. 
"My children hearing it from me will 
have all kinds of feelings involved 
because I am their father. But some 
day somebody's grandchildren will 
come and see us survivors talking and 
they will see how we looked, our affect 
and our tone, and they will be able to 
put it in perspective." 
Now, Dr. Stern, a man who four 
years ago was denying the Holocaust 
had any effect on him, said he would 
like to speak and teach about it in the 
future. He remembered hearing Elie 
Wiesel say, " 'There are fewer and 
fewer of us survivors, and I'd hate to be 
the last one.' " 
"I've always had the feeling that I'd 
be one of the last ones," Dr. Stern said. 
"It gives me an opportunity to fulfill 
my legacy." 

V. 
The whole time Menachem Stern told 
his story, Craig Rogers sat hunched 
over a tripod with his eye in the 
camera's viewfinder. A 
Bohemian-
looking, 
28-year-old, 
free-lance 

**Title: Holocaust Survivor Film Project**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and she has filmed some of the Ameri-
can liberators who were the first to 
enter the camps (among them, an 
American doctor whose hair literally 
turned white during two weeks there). 
"Each sentence of each testimony 
opens up a door," Mrs. Vlock said. 
With each new story, she finds they are 
uncovering details that may bring us 
closer to an understanding of what it 
was like. For example, only one sur-
vivor told her how prisoners in the 
camps cleaned their ration tins which 
were often caked with old food crust; 
they used their own urine because 
urine would not contaminate the food. 
Only one survivor told her how people 
in the camps would spend hours each 
day cracking the nits from their hair 
and examining their clothes for them. 
He showed on camera how they would 
crack the nits with their fingernails. 
This man was the only person to men-
tion such a crude detail, and yet, Mrs. 
Vlock said, he described people as be-
ing consumed with this activity. 
"These are the unspeakables," Mrs. 
Vlock said. "It's not in the books 
because it was disgusting. But that was 
what these people were consumed 
with. They were consumed with those 
nasty details of being. Those details 
force the recognition of what this ex-
perience was in a way that nothing else 
can." 


Mrs. Vlock said she doesn't enjoy 
hearing all of these disturbing things. 
"I certainly don't escape nightmares 
after filming." Nor does she escape 
phone calls late at night from survivors 
who can't sleep after a taping session or 
who are anxious about being filmed 
the next morning. She knows she is re-
sponsible for causing people to relive 
painful experiences, but she also knows 
what a catharsis it has been for so 
many who had kept their stories to 
themselves for so many years. Some 
brought their children to the tap-
ing-children who had never heard the 
whole story before. 


This project has affected some of her 
personal relationships as well. "There 
were some people who really had tO tell 
me they coudn't stand to talk about it," 
she said. She showed one friend a tape, 
hoping to involve her in the project. 
After watching an hour of testimony, 
the woman told Mrs. Vlock, "I don't 
"There were some people 
who really had to tell me 
they couldn't stand to talk 
about it." 
relate to the Holocaust, and I don't 
want to hear anything about it." 


Mrs. Vlock said she does not com-
pletely understand her emotional in-
volvement with the project but she 
· does not believe she is obsessed. She 
has other projects as well, including an 
attempt to start a female-owned televi-
sion station, and a weekly interview 
program on WTNH in New H aven. 
Still, she believes the Holocaust project 
will probably be one of the most im-
portant things she'll do in her life. She 
feels a need to leave her mark, and 
"This,"she said, "is a contribution I can 
make." 


VII. 


By November 15, 1982, the day Elie 
Wiesel spoke at the Law School 
Auditorium, the Holocaust Survivors 
Film Project had come a long way. 
Mrs. Vlock won an Emmy award for 
"Forever Yesterday," a documentary 
using survivor testimony. Through the 
support of Yale President A. Bartlett 
Giamatti and several professors and 
administrators, the collection of tapes 
became Yale's first videoarchive in 
room 331 b of Sterling Memorial Li-
brary. It also became the national 
repository for video testimony about 
the Holocaust, as several other cities 
began their own projects. Under a 
grant from the Revson Foundation, 
the project received funding to tape 
more survivors and buy machines for 
researchers and students to view the 
material. They started looking for ad-
ditional funds to create an endowment 
and for volunteers to help organize the 
vast amount of material already col-
lected. 


Although taping would continue for 
some time, the project entered a new 
phase. How would the tapes be used 
for future teaching and research? 
Would they come to mf"an as much to 
those who viewed them as those who 
made them? 


The Law School Auditorium, which 
holds about 500 people, held more 
than that number the night Mr. 
Wiesel's lecture, "Knowing and Not 
Knowing," inaugurated the video-
archive. People crowded onto the 
aisles, window ledges, and floor space 
in front of the stage. Eva Benda was


**Title: Another Country**
**Author: Julian Mitchell**
**Page number(s): 20**

Where school boy politics 
produce the ruling class policy 
ANOTHER 
COUNTRY 
American premiere 
An absorbing and witty drama set In the pre-war 
British school system where the leaders of the English 
upper class prepare for their roles In the Establishment. 
by Julian Mitchell 
directed by John Ttllinger 
January 6- February 13 main stage 
FOR TICKETS: (203) 787-4282 
Visa and Mastercard Accepted 
222 Sargent Dr., New Haven, Ct 06511 exit 46 Conn. Tpk. 


**Title: Elie Wiesel's Lecture: Knowing and Not Knowing**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

there. And Renee Hartman. And 
Leon Weinberg,. William Rosenberg, 
Menachem Stern. But so were many 
Yale students, and to them especially 
Mr. Wiesel spoke. 


He had been teaching a special 
course at Yale that semester on 
"Literature and Memory." The 
syllabus began with Jeremiah and en· 
ded with Solzhenitsyn, covering in 
betweeen the writings of other 
chroniclers. 


Elie Wiesel is a gaunt man with sad 
eyes, and weary cheeks, and a soft, 
haunting voice. T hat night, he chose to 
speak sitting down. 


"Tonight, I think what I would like 
to do is really to study with you," Mr. 
Wiesel said. "We'll study one episode 
about one man about whom almost 
nothing is known." Simon Dubnov, 
author of an important history of world 
Jewry, chronicled until his dying hour 
the atrocities committed in Riga, Lat· 
via. While soldiers executed J ews by 
the hundreds in the woods outside the 
city, and tanks stormed synagogues 
under siege, Mr. Dubnov sat writing a 
document that has never been found. 
One of his former pupils at the Univer-
sity of Heidelberg became an SS officer 
and taunted his former professor. 


"Once he sneered at him and said, 
'Dub nov, yesterday I happened to be 
in the Black Forest. Four hundred and 
eighty prisoners shot and at least as 
many Jews. You can rejoice Dubnov! 
You have already attained equality 
with the Russians.' 'How many Jews 
were executed?' Dubnov asked, '480? 
T hank you for the information. You 
see I'm still working and it is important 
for me to know.'" 


This same SS officer, Mr. Wiesel 
said, 
shot Simon Dubnov on 
December 8 , 1941. 


"And here comes a shocking dis-
covery. As a teacher in this school, I 
can't tell you how this discovery af-
fected me. When suddenly we discov-
ered that most of the killers of the four 
Einsatzgruppen had college degrees. 
They had Ph.D.'s in philosophy and 
literature. They were doctors. T here 
were two opera singers. And one of 
them, God save us all, had a Ph.D. 
degree in Divinity. How could these 
people who went to school ten, fifteen, 


twenty years to get their doctorates, 
how could they kill children in the 
presence of their mothers? Is it possible 
their education presented no problem 
to them? Is it possible their knowledge 
was no obstacle? 


"You see, friends, all questions 
relating to the era of darkness as 
epitomized by Auschwitz and Treb-
linka may already be found in the story 
of Riga. The criminals, the victims, 
the murder, the silence, the role of 
man and that of his God- it's all there. 
What is also there is the obsession to 
bear witness. The stubbornness of the 
killers to erase Jewish memory was 
equal only to that of the witness striv-
ing to keep it alive." 


The victims thought the world didn't 
know, Mr. Wiesel said. Some sacri-
ficed themselves so that one message 
could get out. But meanwhile, people 
in the United States read about the 
German government's policy of exter-
mination in The New York Times. "If 
anyone had told us the world knew, 
I'm afraid more people would have 
committed suicide." 


The killers knew what they were do-
ing. The world knew what was hap-
pening. "I confess to you," he said. "' 
know now but I do nat understand." 


When Mr. Wiesel finished speak-
tog, the audience stood up and clapped 
for over one · minute. One felt that 
same rush of emotion as during the 
curtain call of a moving play. But Elie 
Wiesel walked quietly off the stage, 
and when the clapping stopped, there 
was silence- long, awkward, uncer-
tain silence. Like cameraman Craig 
Rogers, no one knew what to do. 


• 
Andy Court, a senior in Saybrook, is Ediwr-
in-Chiif of TNJ.


VALENTINE DELIGHTS 

E 
S'ui~o/ia""---
1042 Chapel Street 
New Haven 
EXQUISITE CHOCOLATES 
DISCRIMINATING GIFTS 
open every day 
777-0006 

1 094 Chapel St. 
CONTEMPORARY TREASURES' 
CARDS AND WRAPPINGS 
777-0005 

T



**Title: Shelter**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Anthony welts for dinner In the common room 
'1M strea people depicted in the following 
article are real, but thtir.names have been 
changed. 
June walked up the steps of the ivy-
covered brick building with the suit-
case she had just bought to replace her 
shopping bags. Behind her was the 
cold street, in front of her the smell of 
fresh paint and simmering supper. She 
walked towards the desk, where the at-
tendant hung up her torn green over-
coat, put her suitcase in a closet, and 
put the contents of her pockets in a 
22 The New .Journa.l/January 21, 1983 
small cardboard box. It wasn't much: a 
comb, a bandana, C erts, a pen, a few 
sheets of paper. The house manager 
took her name and age, while a cop 
frisked her before she could walk down 
the hall, past the smoke-filled common 
room to the dining room in the back. 
She took a seat at the long table, 
waiting for six o'clock and spaghetti. 
Columbus House, the only perma-
nent shelter for the homeless in New 
Haven, opened on November 1, 1982. 
It wasn't very crowded several days 
later when June arrived . The desk at-
tendant said people were spending 
their recently-received welfare checks 
on booze. It had been a mild fall, so 
they weren't suffering from the cold 
yet. Later, June and dozens of other 
street people would line up each night, 
hoping to get one of the shelter's 35 
beds. 

Once she is registered and fed, June 
talks to a night host, a volunteer who 
spends a few hours at the shelter talk-
ing to the guests, playing cards, listen-
ing. "I don't like that 30 cent lady," she 
told Liz, a Yale student who asked her 
if she knew many of the street people 
around the campus. "She's a pan-
handler. She lives off other people's 
money. Same with those people who 
fake disablity to be on welfare, the 
ones who were sick ten years ago and 
come in and say they still aren't 
better." June is 44 and once worked as 
a secretary. She gets $53 from welfare 
every two weeks. She's tired, goes into 
the other room to take a nap. 

The newly renovated building on 
Columbus Avenue used to be a con-
vent. Now, cigarette smoke envelops 
the two bare lightbulbs which hang 
from the high ceiling in the hall. A line 
of men lean against the blue walls as if 
they were hanging out in front of the 
Mall downtown. To the right is the 
common room with second-hand sofas 
and chairs along the off-white walls so 
everyone can watch the television, 
which is constantly on. Behind is the 
kitchen, restricted to the staff. A din-
ing room across the hall is filled with 
three long tables and a salad bar from 
which volunteers serve dinner. 

Pete is sitting at the far table, piling 
one spoon on top of another. His 
hands tremble, especially when he 
lights up a cigarette, which is often. 
He looks 60 but is only 45 and wears a 
navy blue sweater, plaid pants and 
new shoes. He is one of the better 
dressed guests. Before coming here, he 
worked and lived at the Salvation Ar-
my but lost his job there for drinking 
and being in a fight. He~d been hit 
with a chain, and has angry-looking 
bruises on his cheekbones, one of 
which is broken. His right eye is 
bloodshot; the other stares starkly 
from his weathered, unshaven face. 
Still, with a good scrubbing, he could 
look like your father. 

"College," he laughed, talking to 
Liz. "A long, long time ago I went to 
college, in Colorado. I came out to 
New York and got a good job, one that 
paid." He laughed. "I forget the title I 
had then, something like supervisor of 
the whole printing outfit. I had so 
much money I didn't know what to do 
with it. It just came in and went out. 
Boy was that a good time." 

Pete came to New Haven because of 
the Shirley Frank Foundation, a center 
for alcoholics. "See. I'm an alcoholic. 
Of my whole family, only my mother 
wasn't an alcoholic." He went on the 
wagon and helped manage the founda-
tion but returned to drinking. Since 
the fight a week ago, he's lived with an 
ex-girlfriend, some buddies, and spent 
only three or four days on the street. 
He now takes odd jobs through an 
employment service and is a regular at 
Columbus House, although he plans 
to rent a room of his own when he can 
save up some of his welfare money. 

"Where's a good place to sleep when 
you're out on the street?" another stu-
dent volunteer asked. 

"There is no good place," Pete said. 
"Hey, Ed, gimme a light." 

Ed is a 46-year-old father of seven 
who used to be a reporter in Water-
bury. He and Pete have been friends 
ever since they came to New Haven. 
Before that they lived in New York. 
"I'd walk around all night, then go to 
the library to sleep all day. You'd sit 
with a newspaper facing the librarian 
so she couldn't see you, and you'd sleep 
for hours," Pete said. Now the two of 
them spend a lot of time on the Green. 
"Yesterday we were in the park," said 
Pete, "and Ed says to me, 'Look at that 
squirrel hiding his nuts. When it 
snows, he won't. ever be able to find 
them.' And the next day here we were 
~ooking all around New Haven for the 
JUgs Ed's hidden. He can't find them 
either, just like the squirrel." The two 
exchange war stories as if this were a 
cocktail party. 

"I spent the best years of my life in 
the war, from when I was 17 till 21. 
Now I'm too old for a paper route and 
too young for social security," Ed said 
with a smile. "I should have cut my 
finger in the war, gotten a purple heart 
and disability. As it is, they have us 
working on Veterans' Day. And us 
veterans." 

Tonight dinner is served by Stiles 
College, which along with several 
other Yale organizations has adopted 
the shelter for a few dinners a month , 
cooking, serving and cleaning up for 
the guests and staff. After d inner a 
group of students talk to Pete about 
the city. "Wouldn't you feel safer closer 
to the Green and to campus, where all 
the cops are?" Pete looks up at them. 
His eyes have recovered from their 
bruises, but not from the long nights 
outside, alone. "If the cops saw me 
there, they'd arrest me as a vagrant," 
he said. He changed the topic to 
movies. "If I renew it every six 
months, I have a lite membership to 
the Yale Film Society." Soon the group 
was laughing about old gangster films 
and comparing favorites. "Anything 
you're learning in that film course of 
yours, I could teach you three times as 
"Prosperity," sneered Pete. 
"Drunks hate prosperity." 
much," said Pete. "I used to be a junior 
high English teacher." 

"You know, at one time I was bring-
ing home $1,000 a week as a printer," 
Ed said. 

"Prosperity," sneered Pete. "Drunks 
hate prosperity. Yesterday afternoon I 
had $65. Today I'm broke. I gave it 
away. I gave it to the guys on the 
street, to the bums. Only I don't like 
the word 'bum. 'Nobody's a bum. But 
you help them out, and then when 
you're down and need something, 
they'll help you. I must know every 
drunk in New Haven." 

A new roof 
Estimates 
figure 
the 
number of 
homeless in this city to be between 250 
and 400. Tonight in the alleys between 
those stone and metal buildings in the 
skyline the shelter faces, approximate-
ly ten times the number of people stay-
ing at Columbus House are making 
do, sleeping near steam vents, under 
newspapers, shrinking into themselves 
against the dark cold. Is this one new 
shelter a mere token effort, doing 
nothing to change a faulty social 
system? 

"I react strongly to the opinion that 
we're just band-aids, not solving the 
underlying problems," said Jack 
Hasegawa, General Secretary of 
Ray and Jeff talclng It easy on the couch. 
The New .Journai~January 21, 1983 23




**Columbus House: A Haven for the Homeless**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dwight Hall, who was instrumental in 
planning the shelter. "Basically it is a 
very small attempt, but you can justify 
it. Last year two people froze to death, 
and one wasn't found until the spring 
thaw. If we can keep one or !WO people 
from freezing to death in 1983, then 
that's worth something, and by having 
gone through the establishing of Col-
umbus House in a careful and pain-
staking way, we hope to be a model. 
We expect to consult other groups 
opening up shelters, making it easier 
for the next ones." 

The many coordinated groups of 
concerned churchmen, social workers, 
and private citizens who originally 
conceived of Columbus House had 
trouble achieving their goal. The 
shelter had to be cleared through zon-
ing ordinances and various state and 
city regulations, not the least of which 
were the newly changed fire codes, 
which required first a standpipe, then 
an external fire excape, then an en-
closed internal one. Delays continued 
through the winter of 1982, when the 
Fair Haven shelter opened in a local 
church. This relieved pressure on Col-
umbus House to open, but also show-
ed city bureaucrats the problems of 
managing a shelter. 

As renovations proceeded slowly, 
funding agencies threatened to cut ofT 
grants. However, the project was 
saved by people like Donald Baerman, a 
prominent 
local 
architect 
who 
donated over 200 pages of plans. 
Bankers spoke at meetings; treasurers 
of multi-million dollar firms wrote 
grant proposals; Yale students planted 
gardens and painted, and one, Jesse 
Lerner, moved into the deserted con-
vent to guard it from vandals. Dwight 
Hall provided two summer interns, 
Val Pierce and Mark Dolan. Money 
appeared from churches, grants from 
the city, and countless individuals. 
Still, a $250,000 fundraiser will be 
"essential to get us through the year," 
said Hasegawa. 

The shelter's executive director, 
Cynthia De Louise, hopes to extend ef-
forts to aid the homeless on both large 
and small scales. "I'd like to expand the 
staff, but we can't afford to. We're 
desperately trying to recruit volun-
teers, especially around the holidays 
and during staff vacations," she said. 
"It's a vast task." 

DeLouise helped establish the Coa-
lition for the Homeless, which will find 
additional housing for street people 
and help the state government accept 
some responsibility 
for emergency 
shelters. New Haven provides them 
for disaster victims, people whose 
homes have frozen pipes or no heat, 
"but our folks face disaster every single 
evening of their lives," she said. "We're 
trying to present this to the govern-
ment, that there's more than just a 
disaster every so often. For these folks 
it's all the time. 

"There aren't even places where peo-
ple can get on their feet in any way," 
she said; "we try to provide bottom line 
care, the most basic opportunity for a 
street person to maintain himself. He's 
no good in a job interview if he's un-
shaven, if he smells bad, if he looks as 
if he's had no place to go." A bill before 
the legislature will help the govern-
ment take financial responsibility for 
shelters like Columbus House. With 
extra funds and staff, the fourth floor 
could be opened up for more guests, 
but renovations there would cost as 
much as the other three floors com-
bined, according to Hasegawa, and 
more volunteers would be needed for 
more guests to be sheltered. 

He spoke of Columbus House's two 
most urgent worries. "I'm afraid of 
what would happen if we ran out of 
money before we have a chance for a 
fair trial," he said, looking out the win-
dow of his Dwight Hall office. "That's 
a major problem. Times are tough and 
you see more poor people now than 
ever before. Also, I get so confused 
about the conflict between public 
regulations and the attempt just to do 
something. If the shelter violates a 
bureaucratic rule, the city'll close it. 
It's bureaucratic procedure to worry, 
correctly, about the risk of tragedy 
with a fire, but would people decide to 
close the shelter and face the risk of 
people freezing to death? It's so easy to 
run afoul of bureaucrats, especially 
those who give out money. 

"Otherwise," Hasegawa said, "I 
think the shelter's got a tremendous 
future. When you see the staff and the 
street people who are willing to help 
out, well, people are out there, and 
they're ready to support us. The dif-
ference we'll make is one person who 
lives who would've died otherwise. 

What if it's a drunk who contributes 
nothing else to society for the rest of 
his life? If it's someone in the locked 
wards of the Connecticut Valley 
Hospital costing $150 a day just to 
keep him alive, that's who we save. But 
that's not a reason not to do it. The 
alternative is to say 'let 'em freeze.'" 

Hasegawa also worries about the 
staffs ability to swallow their compas-
sion and follow the rule that limits the 
shelter to giving beds to only 35 guests. 
"People there will toughen up real 
quick," he said. "I hope they won't 
become callous, but they'll have to 
determine the difference between a 
regular, who they'll know will at least 
get a roof or a cardboard box, and a 
kid who's not from around here, who 
has nothing at all in 34 degree 
weather. It'll always be the instinct of 
the volunteers to help them both, but 
the staff will have to make decisions 
like this 15 times every single night." 

DeLouise worries most about staff 
burnout, and she tries to ensure that 
the live-in residential aides get suffi-
cient vacations in order to rest up from 
the noisy and sleepless nights spent 
keeping a floor full of street people 
under control. All of the live-in staff 
are recovered alcoholics, which en-
ables them to have a special rapport 
with the guests. 

Undying gratitude 
The house manager, Howard McCar-
thy, used to be a drug addict· but 
brought himself through a detoxifica-
tion program. He sits on the stoop in 
front of Columbus House, smoking a 
cigarette and looking out across the 
high school track. "It was a rough 
day," he said, "and after yesterday 
worked out so well." The night before, 
the h03pital had called with a family 
with two kids, on the way to the de-tox 
center. They were from Florida and 
knew no one. "But I couldn't just turn 
them away, especially when we had 
room," he said, even though the couple 
arrived after 9 p.m., after the cop had 
left and registration ended for security 
reasons. Although he had to face 
criticism for his decision to admit the 
family, Howard said, "I couldn't just 
kick them one more time. I've been 
through that myself." 

Howard's eyes look very tired, his 
forehead is furrowed. He lives in Col-
umbus House and has to deal with 
cleaning up after meals, doing the 
laundry, and making sure that nothing 
goes wrong among the entire floor of 
unruly men he oversees. "I have to do 
something. I don't know if it's going to 
be at Columbus House or not but I 
have to do something. Right now I 
don't want to hear about Columbus 
House again," he said, thinking about 
the short tempers and few late nights 
behind him, and how many more 
would follow. He looked up past the 
freshly refinished gingerbread over the 
door, up into the soft autumn night. 
"I've been living here since June. 
When I think of all the work that went 
into this place, and all sorts of people 
donating time and stuff for all this to 
work, I don't know, it restores my faith 
in people." 

What's going to happen when it gets 
really cold, when more than 35 people 
line up before 4:30, and familiar faces . 
have to stay outside? "I can't imagine 
turning people away on a snowy


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Tina Kllry**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"The difference we'll make
Is one person who lives
would've died otherwise."
night," Howard said. He took another
drag from his cigarette, threw it on the
sidewalk, and headed back inside.

In the common room, Pete is play-
ing poker with a young couple who
heard about the shelter through their
church, and with Marty, just out of
prison and just started on methadone.
He has L-0-V-E tatooed on the
knuckles of his right hand, H-A-T-E
on the left.
"OK, here's the stakes," says Pete. "I
put up this cigarette," he says taking
out a worm-shaped Marlboro from his
pocket, "and you put up your undying
gratitude for me for teaching you to
play. So every time you see me on the
street you have to come up to me and
tell me I have your undying gratitude,
OK?"
"But I don't smoke," the wife says.
"So
I'll
get
the
cigarette.
So
everyone's happy." Marty shuffles like
the pro that he is and tells a few jokes
while he deals.

In the corner of the room, a preg-
nant girl, about seventeen, is crying,
while a volunteer host listens. "My life
has been one long disaster," she says,
in her T-shirt with BABY written in
glittery letters. Tonight Howard didn't
have room for her boyfriend, who had
just stopped by to leave the message
that he didn't want to come in anyway.
"Was he juiced up when he said that?"
she asked. He hadn't been. Howard
was sitting in the kitchen, leaning back
against the refrigerator. "Right now
she thinks I'm a creep with a capital
'C', but there's nothing I can do."

In the other room, Pete was talking
past his cigarette, over his cards.
"Sometimes, a good dinner and a good
night's sleep can really change people
around. I know it's true for me." Pete
doesn't want to become a permanent
fixture at Columbus House, though.
"If I could manage it, I'd be out of here
now," he said, talking of his plans for
an apartment. "I'd be out of here a
long time ago, but I'm lazy. I'm spir-
itually lazy and I'm physically
lazy,too. Tomorrow I have to go to
work. You know why? 'Cause I don't
have any more money. Otherwise I
wouldn't work," he laughed. "I used to
be a very successful man. I had
everything, a wife, a job, but then I
lost it. 'Cause of the alcohol."


What other events send people to
the streets? Doug used to be a real-
estate broker, "but money got tight,"
he said. Scottie, when asked what
brings him to New Haven, said, "the
Connecticut five-cent deposit law. I
could earn more money here than I
could lifting furniture for three dollars
an hour back in New Jersey." For
others like Randy, the shelter is just an
overnight stop before a new job or a
move down south as winter approach-
es. "Oh, I hope it snows tomorrow,"
one of the student volunteers said, his
enthusiasm dying as he looked up at
the faces looking at him.
"No you don't," said Randy, who
kept thumbing through the classified
section.

At 9 p.m., the minibus arrives to
take students home,
and
station
wagons pull out of the parking lot and
head towards the suburbs. The guests
file up to the dorm rooms, with fresh
linen and bathrobes.

Smelling of cigarette smoke, Liz was
on the minibus back to Yale. "For the
first time, I realized that those people
are human," she said. "I was walking
home from the library late last night
and saw a guy going through the gar-
bage can. Could he have been at the
shelter tonight?" Did she plan to
volunteer again? "It made me look too
closely. I'm not sure that I want to go
back." But she did.
"What struck me about the people
there wasn't how different they are,
but how much we have in common,
some sort of human constant we all
share. They talk like my parents
around the dinner table, and except
for last night they're usually in pretty
good spirits, not depressing to be
around at all."

That night had been bad. Someone
had stolen June's bicycle. "It was like
her Cadillac," said Ed. "It was all she
had." June sat by herself in the com-
mon room watching "Happy Days,"
occasionally laughing harshly, out of
sync with the laugh track.

Pete leaned against the wall in the
hall. "I went to church today, over to
St. Mary's to pray. I was the only one
there. I said, 'Hey, it's me again. I
know I just come here to ask for
things, but God,' " he laughed, " 'I
need another break.' " He had been
looking for housing all day with no
luck. "I can't sleep here at night," he
said. "There's so many crazy people
here, and I'm gonna be crazy soon if I
can't get out. I keep hitting my head
against the wall and it doesn't even feel
better when I stop anymore." His
breath smelled of chronic oblivion, of
too many bottles in brown paper bags.
"But don't get me wrong," he said, "this
is a good place. It saved my life."
•
Tina Kllry, a sophomore in Morse, is a
regular contributor to TNJ.


**Title: The food factory**
**Author: Lindsay Rodes**
**Page number(s): 30**

Ground beef flows from the meat grinder.
Most people are reaching the fourth
stage of sleep as Bart Mansi punches in
for work in the basement of Commons. He begins at 3 a.m., sometimes
earlier, depending on the day's order.
Today he and his bakers will prepare
1,500 breakfast danish, 9,000 cookies,
and about 250 loaves of bread. And
they do this everyday, five days a
week.

By the time the sun rises, each baker
has had a cup of coffee and baked
enough bread to supply an army. Soon
the first trucks will arrive to send out
the fresh baked goods to the college
dining halls. But with another five
hours to go on the shift, nobody sits
down or takes a break. "It's a tough
shift, but somebody's got to do it," says
Mansi, who has worked as a Yale Uni-
versity baker for 25 years. "It's not a
job for a young guy or a single man.



**Title: At any hour of the day or night, you can be sure that someone, somewhere, is working on our next meal.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At any hour 
of the day or night, 
you can be sure 
that someone, 
somewhere, is working 
on our next meal. 
A machine that forms perfect hamburger patties · 
iii They like to go out and party. I used to 
~ do that, but in 1978 I had a heart at-
! tack. Since then I make sure to get at 
~ least five hours a night." 

Mansi and his team of bakers arc 
} only a few of the hundreds of behind-
iS the-scenes workers in Yale's immense 
:: food network. Yale University Dining 
~ Hall Services runs 26 dining hall units, 
two hospital food services, and an 
elderly nutrition program on a healthy 
budget of !14 million. Complete with 
vending machines, a fleet of 
and a meats division in the Long 
WharfTerminal, Yale's food empire is 
the largest in southern Connecticut. At 
any hour of the day or night, you can 
be sure that someone, somewhere, is 
working on your next meal. 

In the basement of Commons where 
Mansi works you will find the real 
nucleus of Yale's food operations- the 
machines which clean and shred and 
skin the fruits and vegetables; the 
ovens that bake the breads and cook-
ies: the industrial artists who frost and 
ice the cakes and brownies that make 
rheir way into every dining hall on the 
.unpus. 

Few 
people 
realize that 
1-c-~hman Commons sits on top of a 
\ irtual food factory- the bake shop, a 
vegetable shop. and a king-sized kit-
cht·n. Tlw lan~e quantities of supplies 
n·quirc full-time workers to keep 
rhings well-stocked. And supplies are 
constantly 
being delivered 
and 
shipped-as much as 14,000 pounds of 
flour and 11 ,000 pounds of sugar come 
throu~h the loading dock each year. So 
~~hether it's the night of a sports ban-
quet. the freshman Christmas dinner, 
or a typical meal. the basement is in 
constant motion. 

"Things go well because we're all 
pretty good friends down here," ex-
plains assistant manager Mark Girard . 
.. \'\'e're family, and people rely on one 
another.~ Girard should know. As co-
ordinator and arbitrator for the dif-
ferent shops in the basement for three 
vears. vou could call him the father of 
iht· "fa;,ily ." 

The New Journal/january 21, 1983 31 



**Title: A night with the bakers**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

On the average day the three Com-
mons bakers meet behind the Person-
nel Office on Ashmun Street and walk 
to work. The men stick together 
because they say the streets are not 
safe. "There arc a lot of crazies out 
there, you know," says Bob Knox, a 
University baker for 13 years. "Com-
ing to work one time, we saw a man 
hanging from the cemctary wall by one 
leg. He didn't even know where he 
was. Somebody gave him LSD at a 
party." The bakers took him down. 

Another 
morning 
the bakers 
discovered some students climbing on 
the scaffolding outside Woolsey, and 
tramping on the roof. The workers 
called the Yale police. "We didn't want 
anyone hurt," says Knox. And just 
recently the bakers said they accident-
ally interrupted a couple on the street. 
"What did' we see? What didn't we see, 
if you know what I mean. And two 
people of the same sex." 

It's not unusual for poeple to wander 
into the basement of Commons late at 
night following the scent of fresh 
bread. "Students come in from time to 
time, so J give !h(·m a few cookies, 
sure. We aim to please," says Mansi. 

After desc<·nding inw che basement, 
the first thing Mansi docs after turning 
on the lights, is to start the oven. The 
task is not as easy as it sounds because 
the gas pilot light is touchy. An air-
raid alarms sounds when the pilot goes 
:>lit. "It rings through the basement, 
LOUD," says Girard. "The manufac-
turer tOok it apart completely over 
Thanksgiving break. The problem is 
that we push the oven, over-use it." 

But that's hard to imagine. The stain-
less steel monstrosity is at least 15 by 
15 feet and looks like it could heat 
Rhode Island. Five or six 
could fit inside. 

At 3:15am the bakers begin the long 
process of making bread. 
They 
concentrate on the dough, testing and 
tasting. It becomes impossible for the 
bakers to hear each other talk over the 
AM radio, the two mixing machines, 
and the hum of the oven. Hand signals 
and shouts become their means of 
communicalion. And the small win-
dow fan doesn't stop the droplets of 
perspiration from forming on their 
32 The New Journal/january 21, 1983 
foreheads, telling them that the oven is 
ready. 

Pony-sized cockroaches 

The bakers don't need recipes. h's sec-
ond nature by now. Each of tht•m has 
worked the 3-11 shift for fiv<' years. 
Their motions are pretise and prac-
tised. Knox whistles as he dribbks it·· 
ing over the danish. "I gel up pretty 
early. I usually get up at I 2:30 10 gel 
ready for work," he says. "I have to gel 
situated, you know. I'm not one of 
those people that an get up and go at it 
straight away." 

Kneading the bread requin·s the 
most work. It lies on tlw tahk, a 
doughey amoeba as big as a man. 
Potential penuche bars. 

Mansi rips into it with a long knife, 
separating it like Silly Putty. Tht·y roll 
the pieces into balls and slather them 
with e~g batter to make the crust shiny 
and hard. 

There are cockroaches. "You should 
sec some of them," says Mansi. "Pony-
sized. But it's the same at every 
bakery, anywhere there's food. They 
try everything to get rid of them. We 
keep chis place as clean as possible, but 
so many people come thrugh here, and 
bake in this small area that there's 
bound to be a mess. There's no time to 
keep everything spotless. Wc'n• busy 
the whole time. The only chance there 
is to clean is when the students come in 


--- Page 33 ---

Chief Balcer John Mansi can frost a triple layer calce In 30 seconds, 
Including sprinkles. 

at night." White powder and splotches 
of dough lie everywhere. 

"Anyway, I think we do a ({Oodjob," 
says Mansi. "We give the kids home-
style and nearly 400 dincrcnt baked 
~oods. It's as good as any commercial 
bakery." 

Of course students always like to 
mmplain about the food, but the 
bakers have a theory about such peo-
plt· ... It's tough to say why JX'Ople like 
some things," says Mansi . "You ({CI 
pros and cons on everything. It can 
JUst be the person's tastes, too. Some 
people's tastes are off, vou kno.,v. 
Maybe they're unhappy or o;omething 
•?at day, and certain things don't seem 
rt~tht. But it's not the food it's them." 

Once Mansi set out to prove the 
taste theory. In an experiment, he 
({ave his boss a piece of cake to sample. 
"He hated it. but I knew there was 
nothing wrong with the cake. So I 
saved it, that very same cake. And ten 
days later I gave the s:tme persn 
another pie<:e. He loved it, so help me 
God. It just I{OC'I to sho"" that tastes are 
hard to trust." 

Just before 6:00 Mansi brings out 
three white papers hats like the one-. 
tht·y wear at McDonald's. Reluctantly, 
everyone puts one on. "It's the one part 
of the uniform I hate. But we are sup-
posed to wear them. So just before the 
manager arrive<; ... 

**Title: A contest of smells**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A contest of smells 
At about 7:00 the basement is a contest 
of smells. Evt>ry room is filled with 
something different. 
Mushrooms. 
Radishes. Cheddar cheese. Green pep-
pers. Iceberg lettuce. There arc crates 
of tomatoes and broccoli and cabbage 
piled by the elevator. "I can smell 
something cooking in the kitchen 
before I can smell what the bake shop's 
working on," says Larry Freeman, a 
baker. But inevitably onions win. The 
vcgatable shop across the hall from the 
bake shop fills the whole complex with 
the sharp smell of onions. "Don't even 
mention them," says one of the 
workers, disgusted. 
"If one-of the women who has been 
working on them comes in to the main 
office I can ltll," says Rose Proto, a 
secretary at Commons. "Myself, I 
can't even go into the room when the 
onions arc being p(·clecl, I cry c;o 
much." 

Eva Pennicooke, a 50-vear-olcl pan-
try worker, has peeled onions for three 
years because nobody dst• wants to. 
It's painful and tedious, and, yes. it 
makes you cry. "After 15 or 20 min-
utes a film of sulfuric acid coats your 
face," she explains. "You stop sniffing 
and crying, but you can't wash your 
face or it starts all over again. Your 
have to build up the layer of acid. And 
standing in the r<.'frigcrator helps 
some, too." 
She hums and says none of the work 
bothers her right now because" she go-
ing to Jamaica for a few weeks to visit 
her husband. "Somcbody's got to do 
this job." she rationalizes. "Tiw only 
thing is 
how embarrassed 
I get 
sometimes, about the smt>ll. It is so, so 
terrible. l'U walk into a public place, 
Compressed air Jets help Ere Penecoolce peel onions. 
and people will turn to look at me and 
stare." Still, the job looks miserable. 
She stands behind a plastic "sneeze 
guard" which hangs over the pilt> of 
onions to keep the peels from flying in-
to ht>r face. Using a high prt>ssure air 
hose, Pennicooke holds the onion and 
strips away the outer layer of brown 
skin. She then tosses the naked bulb 
into a hamper behind her. Doing this 
for two and a half hours, she can peel 
645 pounds. That's more onions than 
most people will touch in a lifctinw. 

As recently as a year ago, then: wen: 
workers who did nothing but cut and 
shred lettuce for salad bars eight hours 
a day. That, the manager confesses. 
was a waste of time. Now Commons 
receives shredded lettuce from a ven-
dor. "But it's tough to find a good sup-
plier," said Don Mitchell, the produce. 
buyer. "Last year I ended up sending 


Sliced vegetables being prepared for bagging. 
back about 1000 pounds a week be-
cause it was so discolored." Mitchell, 
who grocery shops for the University 
starting at 7am every morning at the 
Long Wharf wholesale food terminal 
purchases practically every morsel of 
food-from produce and meat to sugar 
and salt - that winds up on your plate. 
The room looks like a manufactur-
ing plant. The machines that line the 
walls are strategically placed so that 
the preparation process can move 
directly from one operation to the 
ne~t. There is a vegetable washer, 
wh1ch looks like a stainless steel casket; 
a spin dryer which uses centrifugal 
force to drain away the water and a 
vacuum packer which sucks air out of 
the packing bags. 

Every now and them a pantry 
worker gets careless with the vegetable 
washer, and ends up wet. "It only 
seems to happen when you're in a bad 
~ood , when you least expect it. That's 
hfe," says Catherine Ritter, a pantry 
worker. She has just changed her 
clothes after pressing the wrong button 
an.d gettin$ drenched. "The worst 
t~mg is that it doesn't stop automa-
tically You have to go back under the 
stream of water to turn it off. Double 
Wet," she chuckles. 

Except for the onions and heavy 
boxes, working in the vegetable shop 
seems pleasant. "It's the meat I can't 
stand," says Pennicooke. In the next 
room, meat hangs thawing for use in 
the kitchen. The blood drains onto the 
floor as the meat warms. "Smells up 
the place. It's disgusting," she says. 
88,000 chickens 
One place no official Yale tour will 
take you is the Long Wharf Terminal. 
It's on the far side of route 34, the last 
stretch along a row of local produce 
vendors where Yale University Dining 
H all receives produce and meat every 
day of the week. The amounts the pro-
cess each year would stagger the 
average canrnovr - 88,000 chickens, 
38,900 burgers, 44,000 pounds of 
pork and 8, 700 foot-long dogs. 

The Butcher Shop at Long Wharf 
T erminal doesn't smell at all. In fact it 
seems extraordinarily sterile. Every-
one walks around in clinical white 
coats, hard hats and steelplated boots. 
T hey all carry clipboards. The butcher 
shop used to be located under com-
mons with all the other operations, but 
in the last 15 years the process has 
been streamlined. The funny thing is 
that you see very little meat. It's all in 
containers bv the walls, or in card-
board crates on the ,,hite formica 
tabletops. It's a far cry from Sinclair 
Lewis' meatpacking horror. The meat 
hangs form cast-iron hooks only after a 
shipment arrives, but the butchers


**Title: Yale's Meat Shop**
**Author: Lindsay Rhodes**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
quickly move the slabs along the ceil-
ing track and into the refrigeration 
room. Ther supervisors sit in a glass 
observation booth, marking up orders 
and checking supplies under the fluor-
escent light. Occasionally, one of them 
glances up to survey production. 
"They're behind closed doors, if you 
know what I 
mean," says Gene 
Lacobelli, the husky middle-aged but-
cher who's been in charge of cutting 
every piece of meat Yale has consumed 
for the last 17 years. The supervisors 
don't touch the meat. They don't work 
with the butchers, or take their breaks 
with them. As in any bureacracy, the 
supervisors, manager and expeditors 
worry about looking good. 

Every slab of beef and mutton and 
pork that comes into the Long Wharf 
terminal arrives in vacuum-sealed 
packages form Iowa Beef Processors, 
the biggest meat processor in the 
world. The new packaging (called 
Cryovac) saves time and freight costs 
for the butchers and increases shelf-life 
of the beef, but it reduces the butcher's 
job to what Lacobelli calls "portion 
control." 

Portion control is a butcher's curse. 
It is the tedium of watching over a 
automatic pattie machine as it drops 
5000 uniform, flat, five-ounce ham-
burger patties onto thin pieces of wax 
paper. "There are things in every job 
that get boring. For us, it's doing the 
same cuts of meat, "says Lacobelli. 
Although these machines can be 
tedious, they can also be dangerous if 
you're not careful. The band saw that 
Lacobelli uses to clip chicken pieces 
and to form pork chops can cut 
through frozen meats like jello. A few
years ago one of the butchers lost a 
finger. And there are other hazards in 
the meatshop. The butchers are re-
quired to wear hardhats to protect 
themselves from the "ponderous" cuts 
of frozen meat which hang pcrcarious-
ly from the hooks. To protect their 
feet, they wear steel-plated boots. 

Naturally, Lacobelli says, sanitation 
is as important as cutting the meat. 
The butchers stop production everyday 
at 3:00 and start cleaning. It takes the 
rest of the afternoon to hose down each 
machine, inside and out, to scrub the 
walls, to bleach the counrter tops and 
cement floors and to squeegee it all 
dry. "W e use as much water as any-
thing else," says production manager 
Maryann Bernick. After all, she says," 
the FDA inspects every day. The place 
has to be spotless. 

No one is supposed to know exactly 
when Jim Hill, the FDA inspector, will 
arrive to sample and stamp the meat. 
"H e's got the power to shut down the 
place," says 
Bernick. 
"If there's 
something dirty or unsafe, he can halt 
production. But he doesn't do that 
often. H e make suggestions in his 
report, and points out things to us." So 
the tables and walls sparkle. 

The butchers say the only unplea-
sam thing about working at the shop is 
the cold. The cutting room is kept at a 
cool and humid 55 degrees. You can 
see your breath. "When you're stand-
ing using the knives for a few hours on 
frozen meat, 
you 
begin 
to 
feel 
it- hands first, toes next," says one 
cutter. So when the butchers take their 
ten minute break at 10:00am they 
head upstairs to the main office for 
warmth and coffee. 

An anonymous bond
It comes together on the serving line-
meat, vegetables and bread. Three 
separate operations end up on a single 
plate. And although more than a thou-
sand people probably worked to put it 
there, in all jobs at all hours, you prob-
ably don't know a single one of them. 
You don't know their names. You 
don't know their faces. It's a strange, 
anonymous bond for people who are, 
in a way, so intimately connected from 
day to day. 
Lindsay Rhodes, a Junior in Davenport, is 
a regular contributor to TNJ.


**Title: Research The paid Samaritans**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Research 
The paid Samaritans 
11
/ think I have a 
higher tolerance 
for gross and 
disgusting things." 
Darren Gersh 
~ 
Looking for a cure: Gloria, a diabetic, participates In Dr. DeFronzo's 
40 The New Journal/january 21, 1983 
Glucose Metabolism Experiment. 
Matt (not his real name) fought 
against gagging. The small tube, a 
fiberoptic bronchoscope, eased deeper 
into his throat, and the doctor com-
plimented him on suppressing his 
gags. As the tube passed down his 
throat, Matt felt discomfort, but there 
was no pain. His eyes were watering, 
and he remembers feeling "something 
strange" in his lungs, "something cruis-
ing around down there." His throat 
was numb, anesthetized with Lido-
caine in order to relieve his almost 
unbearable desire to gag. "They (the 
doctor and staff) kept complimenting 
me-'You're doing beautiful,'- and 
passing saline solution (to wash cells 
from the lung), and rm doing a good 
Lidocaine buzz-like having done 
coke . . . " At the end of ten minutes, 
the tube comes out of Matt's lungs, 
and the experiment is over: The doctor 
has some of Matt's lung cells and Matt 
has $120. After four hours of X-rays, 
blood tests and just waiting around 
reading magazines Matt left. "Each 
time (he did this experiment twice) I 
bounced out of the place happy to have 
survived, and they owed me $120." 
Like 
hundreds 
of other Yale 
students and New Haven residents, 
Matt has done an experiment at the 
Yale-New Haven Medical Center. For 
a relatively minor amount of work and 
some discomfort, Matt earned thirty 
dollars an hour. He can do this experi-
ment, 
a 
bronchial lavage and 
brushing, every six weeks. 


Although some subjects participate 
in medical experiments for the satisfac-
tion of helping others, most students 
do the experiments to pick up some 

quick cash. It is possible that a student 
could make a pretty good living rent-
ing himself out to science. The pay 
varies with the discomfort of the pro-
tocol. You can get $4 an hour for 
answering questions about your acne, 
or you can get about $600 for risking a 
spinal tap. 

The spinal tap (performed at Con-
necticut Mental HeaJth Center) is one 
of the most painful and potentially 
dangerous experiments. The doctor 
inserts a needle into the spine and ex-
tracts a small amount of the fluid sur-
rounding it. Because the tap alters the 
delicate balance of fluid in the central 
nervous system, the procedure results 
in spinal headaches-headaches worse 
than most migraines. Not all studies 
are this painful, but most involve some 
discomfort. How often can someone 
be a subject? And are there dangers in-
volved from repeated testing? 

Opportunities and risks 
There are many opportunities to 
become subjects. Posters requesting 
paid samaritans are often placed in 
~ale Station and neighborhood shop-
pmg centers. The Medical School's 
Human Investigation Committee 
(HIC) alone a,:proves over 250 ex-
periments each year, each requiring 
~en or more subjects. So if you're will-
mg to take some risks, it's not difficult 
to be accepted into one of these 
studies. 

Ralph DeFronzo, Associate Pro-
fessor of Medicine at Yale, is one of 
the doctors performing experiments on 
human subjects. "I wouldn't ask some-
one to do something I wouldn't do my-
self," he says. DeFronzo estimates that 
he has been a subject in 60-70 percent 
of his studies and that overall he has 
participated in over 300 experiments. 
He admits that there is a small risk in 
every experiment. But he points out 
that. each experiment involving human 
~ubjects is carefully reviewed by HIC. 
From talking to people (in the medical 
community) I've found that the Yale 
Committee is one of the toughest in 
the country," says DeFronzo. The 
Committee, comprised of both doctors 
and lay people, even supervises those 
~xperiments performed off campus by 
ale 
faculty, 
staff and 
medical 
students. 

In order to assure that the doctor's 
power over a subject is not abused, 
HIC reviews both the consent form 
and the scientific design of each ex-
periment. The non-medical HIC 
members from the community review 
the consent form to insure that most 
people from 
the community can 
understand the implication of a par-
ticular experiment. The doctor also 
plays an important role in informing 
the subject about what he is getting 
himself into. Dr. DeFronzo, who is not 
a member of H IC, will often explain 
the protocol and then have the subject 
explain it back to him in order to see 
that there is a complete understand-
mg. 

In compliance with HIC guidelines, 
the doctors informed Matt before he 
began of the risks involved in his ex-
periment. The consent form listed the 
possible dangers: "If you participate in 
this study, you will be exposed to cer-
tain risks of physical injury. These in-
clude 1) possible lung infection due to 
retained fluid, 2) spasm of the airways 
due to the fluid, and 3) minor blood 
streaking of the sputum (saliva and 
mucus) as a result of the brushing and 
fluid washing. In addition, it is possi-
ble that in the course of these studies, 
new adverse effects of this procedure 
that result in physical harm may be 
discovered. Medical therapy will be of-
fered at no cost to you for any of the 
aforementioned physical injuries." 

In Matt's case no serious side effects 
resulted from the experiment. For two 
days after the bronshocopy he had "the 
deepest sore throat imaginable." He 
felt tired and brought up fluid from his 
lungs as the consent form explained he 
would. His bronchitis was inflamed. 
However he did not feel that the ex-
periment had been a major inconven-
ience, and he did it a second time. "I 
like the people and felt secure in their 
hands," he explained. Of course the 
money played an important part in his 
decision to continue the experiment. 
"I'm very into having money," he said. 

Another factor in Matt's decision to 
do the experiment was his faith in the 
doctor's ability. Because medical ex-
periments involve complicated tech-
nical procedures or knowledge, the pa-
tient often feels like an intelligent 
guinea pig. He has no choice but to ac-


**Title: Medical experiments pay well**
**Author: Danm Girsh**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
had stayed out late the night before 
and 
was 
very 
tired. 
She does 
remember waking up when an atten-
dant replaced some blood that had 
been taken from the catheter. He 
replaced the blood too quickly and she 
felt an "odd surging" in her body. After 
the experiment was over, she couldn't 
walk very well. When Sally told the 
doctors this, "They didn't seem too 
sympathetic." For the next week she 
had a large bruise on her leg and small 
"vampire-like" marks on her arms. 
Three weeks later she received her 
check for $100. I asked her if she was 
thinking of doing any other experi-
ments. "Funny you should ask that 
because I was just debating doing a 
hormone experiment." 

Clearly though, the testing is not for 
everyone. Sally thinks that some peo-
ple might find it unduly stressful: "I 
think I have a higher tolerance for 
gross and disgusting and painful 
things," she says. 

Whether or not Sally learned from 
her experience, the data gathered from 
her body will help those who are 
diabetic. The experiment Sally 
volunteered for contributes to the 
general fund of knowledge about 
diabetes, and hopefully this knowledge 
will lead to a cure. DeFronzo has 
many diabetics who volunteer for the 
testing in order to help him arrive at 
that cure. Indeed the hope of helping 
others keeps many of his subjects com-
ing back to do the test again. Rather 
than go into a more lucrative private 
practice, DeFronzo himself stays with 
research because he finds it more ex-
citing. "I think that some of my work 
has had an impact in clinical manage-
~ent of people and that's very reward-
mg." he says. 

Medical experiments 
pay well 
because they can be uncomfonable 
and risky. But the discomfort and risk 
w~ich an experiment poses are a small 
pnce to pay to cure a disease such as 
diabetes. Whether or not Sally and 
others volunteered for an experiment 
strictly for the cash, someone out there 
will be thankful. 

• 

Danm Gtrsh, a junior in Pierson, is 
Associate Business Manager ofTNJ. 


**Title: The great intangibles of college life**
**Author: Holly Lyman**
**Page number(s): 45**

The Insider's Guide 
emphasizes the 
Great Intangibles of 
college living-
suntan potential, 
party scene, the 
typical personality. 
..area< 
..._. --_, -
_, -
The Insider's Guide to the Colleges: The Yale Dally News at Its best 
Pity the high school senior. As you 
relax over winter vacation, he faces a 
swamp of college catalogues, essays, 
and deadlines. He must answer ques-
tions. like, "what extracurricular activity 
have you found most meaningful, and 
why?" In all likelihood, the schools he 
visited last summer have melted into a 
single image of lawns and brick build-
ings. The statistics tell him little about 
actual college life. He has no idea 
where he wants to go to college. 

The Yale Daily News Insider's Guide to 
the Colleges was written for this student. 
Unlike conventional college guides 
such as Barrons and The College Board 
Handbook, the Insitkr's Guide emphasizes 
the Great Intangibles of college living 
-suntan potential, party scene, the 
typical personality. The latest edition, 
scheduled to hit the bookshelves by the 
end of the month also lists 41 types of 
schools in a College Finder: prestig-
ious, strong party traditions, strong in 
social sciences, etc. The resulting 
dossier of student folklore aims to tell 
the high school senior "what the col-
leges are really like." 

The insider's angle sells. When the 
staff of the Yale Daily News first pro-
duced a college guide in 1969 (publ. 
1970), they saw it as little more than a 
fun way to make a few thousand dol-
lars. Eight editions later, the book has 
become a small institution. Its success 
has inspired similar guides, most 
notably the New York Times Selective 
Guide to the Colleges. But no one book 
has earned absolute credibility. 

Controversy over the Selective Guide's 
rating system prompted the New York 
Times to pull its name from the guide's 
title. And questions remain concerning 
the validity of the Insider's angle. 

First, who are the insiders? Most are 
college newspaper editors. The Guide 
staff sends each campus paper the last 
guide article on its college and asks the 
editor to update it and find someone 
else to write an additional article. For 
the latest edition, the staff also ar-
ranged for Yalies to send similar mail-
ings to their friends. Students from 
well over 7 5 percent of the colleges sent 
back some sort of written information, 
according to Jasper Reid ('82), editor



**WHALLEY EXXON SERVICE CENTER**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
WHALLEY EXXON 
SERVICE CENTER 
COMPUTERIZED TUNE-UP e BALANCING e ALIGNMENT 
BRUSHLESS CAR WASH 
We service all foreign and domestic mod~ls-just 3'4 m1le 
from campus 
Towing and Hoad SeNtces 
5% DISCOUNT AVAILABLE TO YALE 
STUDENTS AND FACULTY WITH 1.0. 
FULL SERVICE 
7 DAYS A WEEK 
288 WHALLEY AVE. 
Corner Sherm•n 
New Haven, Ct. 
865·6174


**The Insider's Guide to Colleges**
**Author: Holly Lyman**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

of the latest Guide. For the remaining 
colleges, the guide staff resorted to 
phone intervi~ws. 

How accurate is the staff? The old 
record here is blemished: in the book's 
fifth edition , someone mixed up the 
University of the South with Southern 
University in Baton Rouge. As a re· 
suit, the book falsely claimed that two 
black students at the University of the 
South had been killed during a demon-
stration. The ensuing lawsuit was set-
tled out of court in 1976 when Berkley 
Publishing Company (then the guide's 
publisher) paid $10,000 to the Uni-
versity of the South. Since the fifth 
edition mixup, however, the guide has 
grown in size and seriousness. Ithaca 
College, 
described in the seventh 
edition as a party school with an active 
pickup scene, did sue the guide for 
defamation, but the guide won handily. 
Recent editions (including the last) have 
been edited with care to avoid libel. The 
book is factually quite correct. 

The question of bias, however, has 
remained troublesome. In all of the 
first eight editions, the guide's writers 
have lectured against Harvard. They 
grant the school's prestige, only to 
dismiss it as a social wringer, a magnet 
for snobs and bad teachers. The 
1981-82 guide, for example, claims, 
"The problem with all students here is 
that they are taught to think, talk, and 
act in a certain way: obnoxious, su-
perior, and self-confident. So they do." 

And then there's the guide's loyalty to 
Yale. In the 1981-82 edition, the Yale 
chapter, by far the longest in the book, 
reads like an admissions catalogue. No 
statement in the chapter is actually un-
true; but none is critical. While such 
prejudice may be natural, it casts a 
shadow over the credibility of the en-
tire book. 

Now that shadow has been lifted. In 
the latest guide, the Yale chapter is a 
model of modesty. 
Although the 
authors find much to praise at their 
school, they refrain from actually 
gloating and offer some mild criticisms 
about expense and town-gown rela-
tions. The Harvard article is also 
balanced, even generous. Reading 
some chapters, it's hard to believe that 
Yalies wrote this book. Where is their 
traditional scorn towards small-town 
conservative schools? The latest


---

writers even make a show of charity 
towards Christian fundamental and 
Catholic schools. For example, "As the 
administration puts it, Bonaventure 
strives to 'foster a community of friend-
ship, 
brotherhood, 
and 
mutual 
service.' Isn't that what a liberal educa-
tion is ultimately about?" No, but that's 
a generous way of putting things. Tol-
erance of other cultures, indeed, in-
forms 
the entire guide. 
It finds 
redeeming features at colleges the 
average Yalie would snicker at. 

But don't worry about being white-
washed. The guide remains critical, 
and sharp. It finds the University of 
Maryland "truly remarkable in having 
so much in the classroom that is so 
bad." A student at Sweet Briar con-
siders her classmates "as diverse a 
group of debutantes as I've seen." On a 
grimmer note, the book charges that 
several schools, including Trinity Col-
lege at Hartford and the University of 
Virginia, have racist atmospheres or 
fraternities. Such charges, Reid said, 
were carefully verified. 

No book is perfect. Personally, I · 
wish the authors had surveyed more 
students in the beginning. I have 
sc:veral quibbles with the College 
Fmder. (Why wasn't Stanford listed 
under "strong in math or science"? 
Why didn't Wheaton make the list of 
women's colleges?) And of course a 
personal visit to the college should 
weigh far more in the senior's mind 
than any guide . .But for a fun starting 
point, the latest Insider's Guide can't be 
beat. It's informative. It's objective. 
And for the terrified, about-to-be-
j~dged high school senior, it offers a 
n.ce sprinkling of zaniness: "Above all, 
what makes going to school at UCSD 
ltJ:te University of California at San 
D1ego) exciting is that the San Andreas 
Fault is close by ... " 

I hope that future editions of the 
guide will retain a sense of humor. Our 
high school senior, sweating over his 
no-doze and thesaurus, needs it . 

• 
Holly Lyman, Yale '82, last wrote for the 
April issue ojTNJ.


where the Food is 
entertaining 
and the Entertainment 
is delicious! 
corner Park & Elm. Parking validated at the Broadway lot. 
Come Uptown for Sunday Brunch with 
Champagne and Plano Entertainment 
• Homeetyte ttallan Food 
• Hearty Drlnka 
• Lunch and Dtnner 
• Plano Bar 
• Late night menu 
• Rathekeller 
,_ ....,J Jllas, Jd -., t!l .._ • - Pacricia Brook • N. Y. r-
387..0500 
The New JoumaUJanuary 21 , 1983 47


The Co·op Book Department Helps You 
FIND THE BOOK YOU NEED 
With these Special Customer Services: 
7 DAY SEARCH SERVICE 
Many popular general titles that are not in 
stock can be obtained in 7 to 10 days or less. 
No fees or charges. Ask at the Book 
Information Qesk. 
SPECIAL ORDERS 
Direct to the publisher for books otherwise 
unobtainable. Allow 3-6 weeks; prepayment 
required; postage charge added. Ask at the 
Special Order Desk. 
OUT·OF·PRINT SEARCH SERVICE 
If a copy is located, the price is quoted 
first-there is no obligation to buy. Ask at 
Bod< Information or the Special Order Desk. 
FOREIGN BOOKS 
For titles in French, German and Spanish 
that are not in stock, ask at the Europa Desk. 

