Publication date: Nov 2016
Volume: 49
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: elena saavedra buckley, isabelle taft
- managing editor: spencer bokat-lindell
- senior editors: sophie haigney, sarah holder, yi-ling liu, aaron mak, david rossler
- associate editors: ruby bilger, victorio cabrera, eliza fawcett, aaron orbey, natalie yang
- copy editors: griffin brown, philippe chlenski, harry gray, rohan naik
- senior designer: ivy sanders schneider
- assistant designers: elaine wang, allison primak
- illustrator: bix archer
- photo editor: elinor hills
- web designer: maria xu
- web developer: philippe chlenski
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- RESURRECTING HOLY LAND - Antonia Ayres-Brown
- THE WEEK AFTER - Staff
- WATCHING THE KING — Chalay Chalermkraivuth
- DOES THE FRAME FIT? — Bix Archer
- THE NEED TO MEET — Tyler Foggatt
- WHY BUY A COW — Jared Newman
- THE THING WE CARRY — Annie Rosenthal
- GRAVE DISPOSITION — Isaac Kirk-Davidoff
- DISPATCHES FROM THE TOAD’S BATHROOM — Charlie Bardey


**Title: RESURRECTING HOLY LAND**
**Author: Antonia Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 30**

After a murder, Waterbury begins to rebuild its abandoned Catholic theme park


**Title: THE WEEK AFTER**
**Author: Staff**
**Page number(s): 24**

New Haven communities react to 
Donald Trump’s election


**Title: WATCHING THE KING**
**Author: Chalay Chalermkraivuth**
**Page number(s): 5**

points of departure


**Title: DOES THE FRAME FIT?**
**Author: Bix Archer**



**Title: THE NEED TO MEET**
**Author: Tyler Foggatt**
**Page number(s): 9**

critical angle

The former managing editor of the Yale Daily News navigates the paper’s 
relationship with the Afro-American Cultural Center


**Title: WHY BUY A COW**
**Author: Jared Newman**
**Page number(s): 12**

profile

In the Arethusa universe, Manolo Blahnik executives sell high-quality 
yogurt and a pastoral lifestyle


**Title: THE THING WE CARRY**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal**
**Page number(s): 16**

snapshot

ID cards have given us access to Yale since the ‘90s. 
What do they signify?


**Title: GRAVE DISPOSITION**
**Author: Isaac Kirk-Davidoff**
**Page number(s): 20**

essay

What I saw where my ancestors rest


**Title: DISPATCHES FROM THE TOAD’S BATHROOM**
**Author: Charlie Bardey**
**Page number(s): 37**

endnote



**Title: a letter from the editors:**
**Author: Isabelle Taft & Elena Saavedra Buckley, editors-in-chief**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dear readers, 

Earlier this week, Oxford Dictionaries announced that their 2016 word of 
the year is “post-truth,” “relating to or denoting circumstances in which 
objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to 
emotion and personal belief.” Its use increased some two thousand per­
cent this year. As the presidential campaign made us doubt the national 
media’s ability to communicate across partisan lines, we didn’t think much 
about our own publication. At a place like Yale, which felt immune from 
the potential of a Trump presidency, we felt immune to post-truth, too. 
After the election, when the New York Times’ election map faded to the 
opposite color than had been predicted, we didn’t. 

Our October cover story, about Yale’s Republicans and the 2016 race, was 
written with the assumption -- informed by polls and national media pre­
dictions -- that Trump would lose, precipitating an epic existential struggle 
within the GOP. We could not have foreseen the outcome on November 
8th, but we should have been more attuned to the array of possibilities 
that existed all along, and the forces in American politics which Trump’s 
campaign brought to the fore. That would have been true regardless of 
what happened on Election Day, but now it is impossible to ignore. 

Now, the shock has lessened. As we edited pieces for this issue, what 
remained were questions about how to do our jobs as writers and editors 
while considering the blind spots of publications—those in cities, with 
writers we admire and read in classes. First: What should we do right 
after, on November 9? You can find our answer on page 24, where you’ll 
find eight vignettes depicting the reactions of different groups of people 
around New Haven to Trump’s win. 

Very little of the journalism published today can accurately be called 
activism. Still, we at The New Journal are responsible for recording local 
activists’ efforts, and we have embraced our role as a platform for student 
journalists, sometimes activists themselves, to reflect on the most critical 
issues facing our city and campus. And we are responsible for being 
purposeful in our coverage of New Haven while at the same time remain­
ing self-aware about our temporary home: Yale, a university that houses 
many students who feel threatened by Trump’s proposed policies, and is 
home to relatively few people who share the opinions that triumphed on 
November 8. 

Over the next months and years, The New Journal should document the 
effects of a historic presidency on our campus and city. We should draw 
attention to injustice of all kinds and highlight those who are working 
against it. We hope you will hold us accountable for our reporting and 
writing, as well as our decisions about what to put in our pages. You can 
always email us at editors@thenewjournalatyale.com and leave comments 
on our Facebook page and website. Thank you for reading, and we hope 
to hear from you now and always. 

Sincerely, 
Isabelle Taft & Elena Saavedra Buckley, editors-in-chief


**Title: WATCHING THE KING**
**Author: Chalay Chalermkraivuth**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
The death of Thailand’s monarch reaches New Haven
At Dwight Hall on October 18, the dress code is black. 
King Bhumibol Adulyadej of Thailand has died, and over 
one hundred people from Connecticut, Massachusetts, 
and Rhode Island have congregated at a service organized 
by Thai undergraduates at Yale. Among the mourners are 
the staff of New Haven’s Thai and Thai-owned restau­
rants: Thai Taste, Pad Thai, Anaya’s Sushi, York Street 
Noodle Place, and Jeera Thai. As people come forward 
to place candles and flowers on the altar, they touch their 
brows to the ground in prayer to a printed image of the 
late king: a symbol of a symbol. Some cry. Others want a 
nice photo. When a satisfactory picture is taken, a com­
mand follows: “Put it on Face.” “Face” is Thai slang for 
Facebook, and tonight the phrase is as ubiquitous as “Rest 
in peace.”
“He’s at peace now,” said Mo, the co-owner of Thai 
Taste, of the king. Her sadness, she told me, was self­
ish. Several days after the service, she still wore black 
to observe the yearlong mourning period. In Thailand, 
there has been public concern about a shortage of 
black clothing; state banks have pledged to distribute 
black clothing to eight million low-income people. 
When I went to Thai Taste to interview her, Mo sta­
tioned us in the dark, slim corridor leading into the 
restaurant’s dining room, away from the staff, sprawled 
and sleeping on couches during the long afternoon. A 
picture of Queen Sirikit, now solitary, hung in the cor­
ridor. The picture of the king that used to hang beside 
hers had been relocated to a small shrine by the door.
We spoke under the watch of the portraits in the 
lamplight. “The king was completely selfless,” Mo 
said. “He was really a deity.” She added in English, “An 
angel.” Then, in Thai, “I’m grateful to have been born 
during his reign.” Mo grew up during the king’s most 
active years, the nineteen-seventies and eighties, when 
the Royal Projects—his policy initiatives, related pri­
marily to agriculture and flood diversion—and media 
coverage thereof were at their peak. “I grew up seeing 
the king’s deeds on TV. I’ve always been used to it.”
Over the course of his seventy-year reign, the king, 
who died October 13 of lung and kidney complica­
tions, built up a formidable cult of personality. In the 
Thai public media network, he is commonly referred 
to as the “father of the land.” Portraits of him, like the 
one enshrined at Thai Taste, are omnipresent. In Bang­
kok alone, hundreds of thousands of people celebrated 
his birthday annually at Sanam Luang, a public square 
in front of the Grand Palace—Mo herself attended the 
celebration two years ago. 
Growing up in Bangkok, where I lived before com­
ing to Yale, I participated in this widespread adoration. 
The king wasn’t a tyrannical leader; nevertheless, his 
illustration ivy sanders schneider

cult of personality rests on questionable grounds. The 
idea of his unequivocal goodness has been sustained 
through the suppression of uglier details, like his com­
plicity in the massacre of university students in 1976.
Articles written in English—by BBC News, The New 
York Times, and The Economist, for instance—cite lèse-
majesté laws, which criminalize insults to the monar­
chy, as the reason for the absence of visible opposition. 
However, this explanation is incomplete. A great num­
ber of Thai people feel genuine love for the king, and 
so revere the monarchy that to speak against it would 
be unthinkable—even in New Haven, far from puni­
tive forces in Thailand. The five people I spoke to—
staff at Thai and Thai-owned restaurants—all said that 
they loved the king and cried at the news of his death.
Down the street from Thai Taste, pictures of the 
monarchy are also on display at Pad Thai. Nat, a wait­
ress there, made Thai tea for her friend Ped, Pad Thai’s 
chef Mai, and me as we talked about life in America. 
“I live simply,” said Mai. “Just like our king said: suffi­
ciency.” She was referring to the doctrine proposed by 
the king that advocates a life of moderation. The den­
tistry museum of Chulalongkorn University, Thailand’s 
oldest university, established by King Chulalongkorn, 
houses a tube of toothpaste, purportedly used by King 
Bhumibol, that has been squeezed completely flat—
evidence of his modesty in spite of his wealth and 
power. He was considered a moral leader, unlike his 
son Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn, who is thrice 
married and divorced, and is widely perceived as adul­
terous and hedonistic.
Mo has spent seven years in America; Mai, thirteen 
or fourteen. Trips home are expensive and rare. Even 
so, their statements of veneration sounded like those of 
Thais who had never left Thai soil. 
This bond with Thailand isn’t sustained through a 
Thai community. “We’re here to work. It’s every man 
for himself,” Mo told me. She plans to return to 
Thailand after retirement—New Haven merely pro­
vides a quiet space in which to make a living.
Instead, the bond is conserved technologically. 
Everyone I spoke to streams the same three Thai news 
channels. The Royal Thai Army manages one, and the 
state-owned public broadcaster manages the other two. 
All are conservative. Most of New Haven’s Thai res­
idents don’t watch English-language news channels. 
They’re not interested, or don’t find Thailand, as they 
think of it, correctly represented.
Facebook and Line, a messaging app, are also central 
to keeping in touch with home. Both serve the double 
function of communication platform and news source. 
Paq, a waiter at Anaya Sushi, couldn’t tell me which 
online journals specifically served as his news sources: 
“I just saw it on Face.” This immersion in social media 
is accompanied by a comparatively sparse social life in 
New Haven. When I asked Paq what he does in his free 
time, he said, “I go home and sleep.” In the absence of a 
community in New Haven, Facebook provides a virtual 
replica of the social circles Thais inhabited back home. 
Because Facebook is a global public network, it also 
extends the threat of repression all the way to New 
Haven. This past May, eight people were charged with 
sedition for mocking the military junta on Facebook, 
and the threat of repression now hangs, however lightly, 
over the site. “It’s not right to share such things,” said 
Mo, of a New York Times article about the king’s death 
in which the crown prince was spoken of unfavorably. 
She shook her head. “It’s too blunt.” It’s difficult to tell 
whether Mo’s criticism stems from the potential legal 
consequences or from a cultural norm of deference to 
the monarchy—the two reinforce each other even on 
this relatively new platform. Facebook makes Thailand 
immediate in every sense but the physical.
This immediacy is palpable on the night of the 
memorial service. After a group picture is taken, a 
man rouses everyone to sing the King’s Anthem. Some 
people, such as the initiator, are filled with patriotic 
furor: they sing vigorously, stridently. Some continue 
to weep. Paq appreciates the solidarity the service pro­
vides. But Mo feels a little lost and disconnected. She 
pictures Sanam Luang on the king’s birthday two years 
ago, packed with people who looked upon each other 
with automatic love. In America, she says, the looks are 
blank, or guarded. In Thailand, the candles are real—
not electric, like the ones at the Dwight Hall service or 
at Thai Taste’s shrine. The unity created by the king, 
she says, is real.
Was real. It was fragile enough while he was alive, 
she says. Thailand has undergone two military coups 
in the past decade; the 2014 coup was preceded by six 
months of protests. The crown prince is unpopular. 
What will come of it now?
 “I can’t die here,” Mo said of America. “It’s too 
expensive.” She wants to return, and to be buried in 
Thai soil. Internally, she’s barely left. The Thai resi­
dents of New Haven are satellites—projected from 
Thailand, orbiting solitarily, carrying their particular 
notions of home, waiting to return.
— Chalay Chalermkraivuth is a 
freshman in Saybrook College.



**Title: DOES THE FRAME FIT? P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E**
**Author: Bix Archer**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
With plans to highlight its African art collection, the YUAG grapples 
with its limitations

When future visitors to the Yale University Art Gallery 
enter the lobby, they will turn to the left after checking 
their coats and see the new occupant of the museum’s 
coveted first-floor space: the African art collection. 
The Gallery is moving the collection from its current 
location upstairs to the first floor, one of the most prominent gallery spaces in the building. In the old exhibit, 
statues stood on island-like platforms around the room, 
masks hung from the walls, and artifacts rested in glass 
cases. Works made centuries apart sat close together: 
pieces like a twentieth-century Ode-Lay mask from 
Sierra Leone appeared near small terracotta heads 
made by the Nok people of Nigeria in 900 BCE. They 
were united only continentally, with no indication of 
the massive shifts in time, space, and cultural conditions that occurred between the points of their creation. 
The pieces themselves were clustered haphazardly, 
and other elements of the display exacerbated the 
experience. According to Curator of Education Ryan 
Hill, the old African gallery was designed to make visitors feel as if they were “in Africa,” recreating an ambiance intended to convey the atmosphere in which the 
works originally existed: the walls were painted purple 
and covered with maps and big photographs of people 
and landscapes. Yet very little was done to contextualize the collection.


Barbara Plankensteiner, the Frances and Benjamin 
Benenson Foundation Curator of African Art at the 
YUAG, took umbrage with the hodgepodge nature of 
the African collection and its contrived presentation. 
The new space—her first project at the Gallery since 
being hired last year—will be much like those of the 
modern galleries, with no extra maps or photographic 
adornment. The transformation requires YUAG curators to wrestle with questions inherent to museum work 
and unique to the challenge of presenting African 
art in a Western museum. Take, for example, a squat 
wooden figure in the collection from the Songye culture in the Congo. The sculpture measures about four 
feet tall, its face peppered with metal studs, its head 
adorned with dark brown feathers. It’s called a “community power figure,” and it is an example of a nkishi, 
an object inhabited by a spirit, considered by art historians to be a form of “process art.” Process art is only 
complete in a set of specific circumstances. The community power figure, while considered powerful even 
when unused, is only able to reach its full potential 
when used for a ceremony. It can never be complete 
in a gallery space; it is impossible for the YUAG, or 
any traditional museum, to fully do the work justice. 
By contrast, most artwork displayed in the YUAG, and 
art museums generally, can be considered “statement 
art”—intended for viewing as-is, completed once the 
artist has put their final touches on the work. 


How do you honor something in a museum, outside its native time and space, without exoticizing it? 
Is it possible? Unlike the African gallery, the Asian 
and European galleries were not laid out to make 
anyone feel as if they were “in Asia” or “in Europe.” 
This approach, Plankensteiner said, made the African 
collection “other.” “These are works of art,” Plankensteiner said. “Once they enter the museum space, they 
enter a different world, and we do not need to recreate 
an ambiance.”


Now, Plankensteiner will display the art of the African collection in a loosely chronological order, grouping pieces to highlight specific themes: original function, spirituality, and materiality, the latter including 
empowered objects (like nkishi) which hold direct ties 
to religion. Plankensteiner wants to go digital, too, 
using videos of dances and ceremonies to simulate how 
works were utilized and seen in their original environments. She also wants to curate comprehensive exhibits dedicated to African contemporary art, which would 
be a first for the YUAG.


Plankensteiner hopes that the ritual figures and 
masks from Central and West Africa— what Picasso 
would have termed “primitive” and what were all the 
rage for collectors in the early- to mid-twentieth century—will not be the sole image people think of when 
they picture an entire continent’s art history. But there 
are still limitations within the collection itself that cannot be fixed with a new arrangement. 


The YUAG’s African Art collection comes almost 
entirely from three sources: the 1954 donation of the 
Linton collection, a gift of Mr. and Mrs. James M. 
Osborn, the 2004 gift of nearly six hundred objects from 
the personal collection of Charles B. Benenson, and 
the gift of roughly two hundred pieces from SusAnna 
and Joel B. Grae in 2010. The collection, then, is not 
encyclopedic but rather an index of its donors’ personal 
tastes. That is not unusual for the YUAG; most collections in the Gallery come from a handful of donors. 
When it comes to the collection of non-Western art, 
the tastes of the donors conform to what is popular in 
Western eyes. In the African Art collection, this means 
a very limited scope of masks and ritual figures from 
West and Central Africa. Other departments also have 
funds made up of alumni donations for purchasing new 
works and expanding their collections; the African Art 
department does not. 


These limitations are present in most Western 
museum collections of African art, said Daniel Magaziner, an associate professor of twentieth-century African history at Yale. There is a long period of time in 
African art history that we know very little about, for 
Western collectors were not interested in the work, and 
so very little research has been done on the subject. As 
a result, contemporary African art in the gallery seems 
to come out of nowhere, although generations of artists 
and evolving art forms occurred in between. Plankensteiner hopes that more will be added to the collection 
in this respect, but for now, she said, this is what the 
YUAG has. And so long as the YUAG’s donors are not 
interested in African work beyond what’s already here, 
it will not be represented in the collection. 


The possibility of increasing the museum’s holdings 
of contemporary African art brings up a question about 
the YUAG’s division of its holdings: When should artwork be included in the Modern and Contemporary 
section instead of a geographic collection? What, in this 
case, makes a recent work distinctly “African” enough 
to be included in the African collection? Is it based on 
the nationality of the artist, or the subject of their work? 
Magaziner pointed out that last fall, when the YUAG 
presented a large exhibit of the work of William Kentridge, a prominent white South African artist whose 
work deals explicitly with social and racial politics of 
South Africa, the exhibit was not billed as “African” or 
linked to the African collection. Kentridge’s artwork is 
clearly African, so why was it excluded from the African 
collection? Since Plankensteiner plans to display contemporary work in the new gallery space and hopes to 
expand and diversify the collection, these are questions 
that need to be asked—and answered consistently—as 
the collection moves forward.

— Bix Archer is a sophomore 
in Berkeley College.


**Title: THE NEED TO MEET C R I T I C A L  A N G L E**
**Author: Tyler Foggatt**
**Page number(s): 9**

The former managing editor of the Yale Daily News navigates the 
paper’s relationship with the Afro-American Cultural Center

The Yale Daily News building and the Afro-American 
Cultural Center share a walkway. The walk between the 
two takes fifty-six seconds. At second thirteen, you can no 
longer hear the grumbles of exhausted reporters, or the 
sounds of street traffic. At twenty-seven seconds in, asphalt 
becomes sidewalk beneath your feet. You step underneath 
a stone archway at second thirty, and a slight pivot to the 
right must be executed at second thirty-four, the point 
at which the addresses change from York Street to Park. 
A few more steps, then look: The cultural center, also 
known as the House, is on your left. 
Last year I lived on Edgewood Avenue, across the 
street from the Af-Am side of the walkway. Every night, 
during my stint as Managing Editor of the News, I 
made the walk between the two fortresses. It was an 
uncomfortable walk. I’m a half-black woman, but I had 
never actually been inside of the House. It had started 
almost as an accident: I was busy, I had plenty of black



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Tyler Foggatt**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
friends who I met in other ways, and I had never really 
connected with the peer liaison I was assigned when I 
matriculated. But my association with the News even­
tually made me feel unwelcome at the House. Some­
how, I had almost become less black.

My first visit to the House was in November of 2015, 
less than two months after I had become a News editor. 
Risë Nelson, the House’s director, had sent the paper’s 
senior editors an email with the subject line “Need to 
Meet.” She alleged that the News’ reporting was poten­
tially dangerous to communities of color, explaining 
that our coverage of the recent protests over racial dis­
crimination on campus had been poorly sourced and 
disengaged, and “many underrepresented students, 
faculty and administrators are unwilling to speak with 
the YDN.” And when we quoted her in the paper, we 
consistently neglected to include an umlaut over the 
“e” in her first name. 

The News and the Af-Am House have been neigh­
bors since 1970, when the House moved to its current 
location at 211 Park. The relationship between the 
News and the black community has historically been 
turbulent, but the headquarters of both groups are con­
nected by the red brick that lies between them. There 
are no gaps, no pauses in the hundred-foot wall extend­
ing from 202 York to 211 Park. If a bomb detonates in 
one building, violent tremors rock the other. This is 
how it has always been.  

Two years ago, the bomb was Rodney Cohen, Assis­
tant Dean of Yale College and the center’s former 
director. During his time as director, students insisted 
that Cohen had failed the House: he was consistently 
absent, and he mismanaged resources. They had lodged 
complaints against Cohen in 2010, when they requested 
that he complete more training or risk removal from his 
post. Four years later, 147 students signed a sixty-nine-
page petition of grievances against Cohen. 

In February 2015, the Yale Daily News wrote a 
“News’ View” calling for Cohen’s removal, but it was 
too late. His poor leadership had gone uncovered by 
campus publications for years, contributing to the most 
common criticism the News receives from communi­
ties of color: we pester them, ask them questions, and 
give them attention when something terrible has hap­
pened that we simply consider “news.” But most of the 
time we don’t pay attention. We don’t cover the less 
obvious things: the events, conferences, and rallies—
stories that still deserve to be told. 

I spent 2014 reporting on admissions and financial 
aid for the News, and I was fairly removed from the 
Dean Cohen situation. It wasn’t on my “beat,” and I 
had also never stepped foot inside the House. All of 
my free time was spent doing things for the News or 
thinking about doing things for the News. I watched 
my fellow reporters struggle to cover the situation with 
Dean Cohen, and I overheard students taking issue 
with their coverage. But at that point, it was still their 
coverage: articles written and edited by other people. I 
did not consider myself complicit. I covered the Office 
of Undergraduate Admissions.     

Last November, when I was on the editorial board, 
students of color confronted former Silliman Head of 
College Nicholas Christakis in the Silliman courtyard 
and stood on cross campus telling stories of discrimi­
nation and abuse to Dean Jonathan Holloway. Criti­
cisms of News coverage arose again, and this time I felt 
responsible for every single thing that was printed in 
the paper. Students condemned us for not including 
their side of the story while simultaneously declining 
our requests for comment. Communities of color said 
we were too gentle toward SAE (the frat now known as 
Leo) and Nicholas and Erika Christakis. In a Washing­
ton Post op-ed last month, Erika Christakis claimed the 
News misrepresented what happened last year in a way 
that indicated our bias and pushed she and her hus­
band out of their administrative positions. When both 
sides claim you’re biased against them, whom could 
you possibly be biased toward? 

The insensitivity went both ways. One afternoon 
that November, a News editor saw someone spit on 
our building as they walked by. Reporters reached 
out to student activists who said they had been told by 
group leaders to never speak to the News. Comments 
posted on Overheard at Yale referred to the News as 
“trash” and “racist.” At a race teach-in at Woolsey Hall, 
attended by over a thousand students, speakers lead­
ing the teach-in asked News reporters in the audience 
to stand up and identify themselves. “This meeting is 
OFF THE RECORD,” the event leader announced, as 
two News reporters stood up in a sea of one thousand. 
The audience cheered. 

Before our meeting with Dean Nelson, my two white, 
female co-editors and I gathered at the Yale Daily News 
building. We were going to walk to the House together, 
and this time I would actually go inside. 

In an ideal world, I would have been an active mem­
ber of both spaces. I would have been best friends with 
Dean Nelson, or, better yet, like a daughter to her. 
I would have seen the House as a source of comfort 
rather than as a source of unease. I would have written 
every headline with the utmost sensitivity. I would have 
known the right things to say and when to say them. 
And I would have felt black, truly and completely 
black, even though my father is white. I would have 


--- Page 11 ---
NOVEMBER 2016
 11
been a person of color first, and a journalist second, 
or figured out how to be a journalist of color, because 
apparently people can do that. I would have felt like an 
asset rather than a liability to both. Instead, I was just 
someone who crossed the walkway with her head down. 

During that fifty-six second walk, I wondered whether 
Dean Nelson would be surprised to find out that I was 
half black. I wondered if she’d think I was racist any­
way. I wondered if that would mean I was. 

I sat down with other Yale Daily News staffers and 
editors of color, some of whom are more active at the 
Af-Am House than I am. They shared a similar sen­
timent. As Coryna Ogunseitan said, when it comes 
to bridging the gap between the News and the Af-Am 
House, “there’s no one on campus who’s comfort­
able in both spaces.” Ogunseitan, a senior who is half 
Nigerian, used to edit WEEKEND, the News’ arts and 
culture section. Ogunseitan said that she constantly 
emphasized the distinction between WEEKEND and 
the rest of the News during her time at the paper, 
because she found certain coverage printed in the rest 
of the YDN, especially that of SAE, to be “indefensi­
ble” in how it allowed SAE to justify itself. She also told 
me that she tended to downplay her connection with 
the News while at the House. 

Both places seem to have “prerequisites” for entry, 
said Tasnim Elboute, who is North African and a senior 
photographer for the News.  You must have dark enough 
skin to make it at the House; you need to write hard-hit­
ting articles, often on just a few topics, to be embraced 
at the News. She said she’s heard people discuss the 
notion that an association with the News can almost 
seem to “delegitimize your blackness” at the House. 

And while several people said their connection to 
the News made it difficult for them to spend time at 
the Af-Am House, sophomore Ellie Pritchett claimed 
the opposite. At the News, Pritchett always felt like peo­
ple viewed her as “the activist one” who was slightly 
out of place. Pritchett has stopped designing pages for 
the News. Instead she’s serving as Editor-in-Chief of 
DOWN Magazine, a publication written by and for 
students of color at Yale.

As it turned out, Dean Nelson didn’t think I was 
racist. She just thought that we could do better. After 
the meeting, we made a concerted effort to cover more 
things happening at the cultural centers, stories that 
were unrelated to the protests. We pledged to remem­
ber her umlaut. But students of color still often decline 
to speak with the News.

When thinking about the two spaces now, I start with 
the windows. Both buildings have the same ornate glass 
portals to the outside. If a window from one building 
were to shatter, you could replace it with a window 
from the other. No one would notice. 

Both buildings have the same winding staircase. The 
Af-Am House has its Founders’ Room, with paintings of 
famous black alumni: Sylvia Arden Boone, John Blass­
ingame, Armstead Robinson. And the Yale Daily News 
has its Reporters’ Room, covered in past A1s: “Alums 
lock tomb after Bones taps women,” “Yale overhauls 
financial aid,” “BODY FOUND.”

I’ve spent most of my life trying not to think about 
color, maybe because it’s just too hard. Elboute 
described the News’ proximity to the Af-Am House as 
“a machine of whiteness operating next to a space ded­
icated to blackness.” But I try to dwell on how red both 
buildings are, constructed from the same brick.

If it’s a Monday, you can hear drums when walking 
past the House. And you can see students inside the 
building, thumbing through textbooks, inserting pods 
into a Keurig machine, throwing their heads back in 
laughter. The windows are open, the lights are on, and 
there are portraits of people you don’t recognize hang­
ing on the walls. Everyone inside is black, and so are 
you. Second fifty-six. You keep walking.

— Tyler Foggatt is a senior
in Berkeley College.


**Title: Why Buy a Cow**
**Author: Jared Newman**
**Page number(s): 12**

 12
WHY BUY A COW
P R O F I L E
In the Arethusa universe, Manolo Blahnik executives sell high-quality 
yogurt and a pastoral lifestyle 
Jared Newman
I’m eyeing a ten-dollar bottle of eggnog, thinking 
will I, but half-heartedly at best, because I will, and I do, 
and that’s the story of how I end up spending thirty real 
American dollars on eggnog. The eggnog, advertised as 
“old-world” and “small-batch,” comes in oblong, glass 
bottles. They’re recyclable. The eggnog’s only available 
in November and December, if it’s not already sold out. 
The purveyor, Arethusa Farm Dairy, believes that you 
don’t just let eggnog sit on shelves, in cartons. To relegate 
Arethusa Dairy products to the back of some supermarket 
refrigerator is to desecrate not only the food but also the 
philosophy undergirding it, the gastronomic values that 
might justify your shelling out thirty bucks at the year-old 
Chapel Street Arethusa Farm Dairy retail outlet. Dairy 
can be an art in the way Dutch Golden Age portraiture is, 
in the way haute couture is, and if there are any two men 
who aspire to the art of dairy, they are George Malkemus 
and Anthony Yurgaitis.

all photographs by the author 



**Arethusa Farm Dairy: A Connecticut Story**
**Author: Jared Newman**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2016
 13
George Malkemus and Tony Yurgaitis are not, strictly 
speaking, dairy farmers. When Tony and George aren’t 
moonlighting as the owners of Arethusa Farm Dairy of 
Litchfield, Connecticut, they are executives at Manolo 
Blahnik International Limited, the manufacturers of 
the eponymous shoe made famous by Sarah Jessica 
Parker during her run on Sex and the City. This is all 
to say that Tony and George don’t come from a lineage 
bovine; in addition to their careers as fashion execu­
tives, the men are lifelong partners. In 1999, having 
discovered that the plot of land across from their coun­
try home in Litchfield was being converted into tract 
housing, they bought all 350 acres of that abandoned 
farmland. All that trouble, just to protect their view.

The couple did a bit of research. They surfaced old 
deeds and went to the town registrar. Lo and behold, 
theirs was not just any property, but rather the site of 
a historic farm: Arethusa, named for a rare species of 
orchid that once bloomed there. On went the light 
bulb, and a second career emerged. Arethusa rose 
again. “We saved this farm,” Tony Yurgaitis tells me 
over the phone, his voice avuncular but pointed, as if 
debating with a small child. “This farm that has such 
an important history in our community.” 

They erected a barn, wide and white, and as big as 
an airport hangar. The floors are kept spotless. Over 
fifteen years, five cows became three hundred: Jerseys, 
Holsteins, and Brown Swiss. Their tails are washed, 
conditioned with Pantene Pro-V, and blow-dried daily, 
as the staff will tell you on a Saturday public tour. A 
decal reading, “Every cow in this barn is a lady, please 
treat her as such” hangs above the stalls. Yes, what 
you’re looking at has that farm sensibility about it, but 
at the same time, it’s the sort of place that makes you 
want to come back in the next life as a cow. 

About ten years after opening the farm, Tony and 
George bought the old firehouse on Route 202 in 
nearby Bantam. It became their first retail and produc­
tion outlet. Soon, they bought the general store adja­
cent to the firehouse and opened Arethusa al tavolo, a 
farm-to-table restaurant now ranked among the top 100 
restaurants in the nation by OpenTable. In 2013, the 
couple made a third purchase in Bantam, just across the 
street, when Shannon McMorrow, the proprietor of the 
Bantam Coffee Shop, decided to become a phleboto­
mist and sold Tony and George her space for $325,000. 
This spring, her styrofoam cup joint was reopened as 
Arethusa a mano, a café serving Italian-style espresso 
and light lunch fare. 

That’s the triptych of Arethusa Farm Dairy in Litch­
field County: the farm, the restaurant, the cafe. “The 
community really supports us,” Yurgaitis said. “It’s 
always great to see the lines out the door. We’ve become 
a destination not just for locals but people throughout 
the Northeast who’ve discovered our products.” 

And, to a point, members of the community agree. 
“They have a good reputation in the area, an excel­
lent reputation actually. They’re always busy,” said 
Cameron Bove, an organic farmer and librarian, who 
supplies Arethusa al tavolo with tomatoes, specialty 
cooking greens, salads, edible flowers, celery root, and 
beans. “They support a lot in the community. For exam­
ple, I know they support the [Oliver Wolcott] Library, 
they certainly support a lot of school fundraisers. The 
Girl Scouts. You see their name in a lot of places.”

Which brings us to New Haven. According to Yur­
gaitis, Arethusa had been considering expanding 
beyond Litchfield, and when Yale University Properties 
approached them and offered a prime spot on Chapel 
Street, they couldn’t turn it down. 

John and Karen Pollard, who live in Middlebury, 
Connecticut, have been doing New Haven retail leas­
ing on Yale’s behalf for about twenty years. They knew 
the Arethusa story. John explains, “Karen saw what they 
were doing and felt like it would be an excellent addi­
tion to New Haven’s offerings of great, Connecticut, 
quality products.” Connecticut-based quality is a big 
deal to the Pollards. 

It was the Chapel Street aura that appealed to Tony 
and George: the brick sidewalk, the dignified proxim­
ity to Yale, the hauteur. “As soon as I saw it, I thought 
‘This is what we’re about,’” Yurgaitis explained. To 
boot, the space was jeweler Peter Indorf’s former home. 
The clincher? The Chapel Street outlet is less than an 
hour away from Litchfield, which allows Arethusa to 
uphold its commitment to local, artisanal production, 
with goods delivered from the Bantam outlet two to 
three times a week. “It’s just not far. Plus New Haven is 
a much bigger city than Bantam, which is so seasonal, 
but in New Haven, where the population is so much 
bigger, the business is more regular.” 

The Chapel Street location is almost identical to the 
original Bantam storefront, both with respect to design 
and comestibles. But even though New Haven is close 
enough to receive regular shipments of fresh dairy, it 
feels a world away from the bucolic pastures depicted 
on the Arethusa labels. The aesthetic brings customers 
into a world where cows graze peacefully, untroubled 
by human worries. The retail locations are très white. 
White walls, white hydrangeas, white light. The walls are 
lined with black and white photos of Jersey cows. The ice 
cream flavors are listed in chalk. The floors are checker­
board linoleum. “Sterilized” comes to mind. As if dairy 
farms didn’t smell of, I don’t know, cows or manure or 
rot or any of the other pungencies you get when you bust 
out seven thousand gallons of lactation a week. 


--- Page 14 ---

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
“Going to New Haven we had to really educate our 
staff there, because people didn’t know about Arethusa 
or our story,” says Yurgaitis. “We have to be able to 
include New Haven, give them as much support as we 
give the Bantam staff.” For example, all new staff mem­
bers get to tour the farm. 

On such a tour, you see prize-winning cows, vats of 
4 percent butterfat milk, round-the-clock farm staff. 
Maybe, if you’re not an employee but rather one of 
Arethusa’s patrons, you drive to al tavolo, examine the 
ceramic dishware from Puglia, Italy. Maybe you order 
a Stumptown latte at a mano. Maybe you’re driving a 
Mercedes C-Class.

And the staff? Well, I suppose they just go back to 
New Haven, sell these pints of creamy country good­
ness. But this is merely conjecture. I couldn’t get an 
Arethusa employee to talk on the record.

—
 For the sake of owning up to my journalistic non-in­
tegrity, I’ll put it bluntly: I’m a big fan of the Arethusa 
products. Like Karen Pollard, my favorite flavor of 
Arethusa ice cream is Sweet Cream with Dark Choc­
olate Chunks. Their plain yogurt is not thick, but 
rather tangy and light in a way you wouldn’t expect. 
Who knows. I can’t write about food. The point is: The 
cheeses are great, the chocolate milk is great, and the 
ice cream, well.

But in the words of Barbara Putnam, a longtime 
Litchfield resident and food activist, however, “It’s not 
just about ice cream.” 

Here’s the trouble: there was a time, not so long 
ago, in fact a time I remember, when driving West on 
Route 202 there wasn’t a C-Class in sight. Ice cream 
in Litchfield County meant Popeye’s or Max’s or Nel­
lie’s, three scoops of blue Cookie Monster in a sugar 
cone that smelled faintly of formaldehyde. Now Ban­
tam is little more than an Arethusa strip mall. Start 
your morning with a hand-rolled salt bagel, lunch on 
lump crab and taro chip salad, maybe some seared 
veal sweetbreads, and enjoy an ice cream on your way 
out of town. 

Yes, there’s a wistful anger that comes with describ­
ing gentrification, but what I’m talking about isn’t gen­
trification in the obvious sense. Putnam acknowledged 
that Tony and George “are very engaged in the com­
munity and generous to local nonprofits who request 
their support. Every time I work at the soup kitchen, 
the fridge is full of milk that they have donated.” Lisa 
Hageman, a lifelong Litchfield County resident who 
runs this soup kitchen, says she no longer has to buy 
milk and can count on Arethusa donations “99% of 
the time.”

So let’s be clear. George and Tony—good guys. Sweet 
guys. In a way, Arethusa put Bantam on the culinary 
map. Putnam notes that the community itself looks 
upon Arethusa favorably. And, most critically, to suggest 
that Arethusa hasn’t brought bodies and capital to Litch­
field County would deny the simple facts of the matter. 

And yet, to understand the nuance of the problem 
of Arethusa Farm Dairy, a little Litchfield context is 
necessary. Tony and George are weekenders. Their 
white-paneled Neoclassical estate facing the farm was, 
before Arethusa, used for Easter and Labor Day and 
convenient weekends in between. During the work­
week, they are Manhattan residents. 

There’s a lot of that in Litchfield. Susan Saint James, 
Mia Farrow, and Anderson Cooper have all weekended 
there. Cameron Bove, the organic farmer, acknowl­
edges the weight of this fact: “[Arethusa] caters to the 
New Yorkers, the second-home community, but they 
employ a lot of people here.”

In Bantam, not so much. Though a borough under 
the governance of the town of Litchfield, Bantam has 
an identity entirely its own. It isn’t blue collar in quite 
the same way that Reading, Pennsylvania is blue col­
lar. But everything is relative, and though permanent 
Litchfield residents are not nearly as wealthy as the 
weekend population, Bantam is still a much poorer 
town. The median income for a household in Bantam 
is $32,167; in Litchfield, that amount is $58,418—just 
a few thousand above the national median. To make it 
topical: Trump dominated in Bantam and won only by 
a small margin in Litchfield. 

The drive between the Arethusa cows and the old 
firehouse where their milk products are sold takes only 
fifteen minutes. But, as Barbara Putnam notes, that dis­
tance is more symbolic than one might assume: “There 
are rich weekenders who can afford to eat in [Arethusa 
al tavolo] and buy their ice cream, and there are long­
time locals who can’t.” Putnam links this tension to the 
discussion of wealth inequality that has dominated so 
much political discourse in recent months.

EVEN THOUGH 
NEW HAVEN IS CLOSE 
ENOUGH TO RECEIVE 
REGULAR SHIPMENTS OF 
FRESH DAIRY, IT FEELS A 
WORLD AWAY.


--- Page 15 ---

 15
Trish Lapidus, a senior citizen who’s lived in Ban­
tam for just four and a half years, nevertheless feels 
that something has changed. “It does seem to have 
changed,” she tells me. “Five years ago, Bantam was 
a little more down home. Things weren’t as expensive. 
Now I think Bantam—don’t get me wrong, it’s beau­
tiful, it’s wonderful—part of it is sort of rich-focused. 
There are two restaurants that no ordinary person can 
afford. Mind you, I admire those people, but it’s just 
out of my price range.”

To be fair, there’s been no overt clash between Ban­
tam and Arethusa or New Haven and Arethusa. No pro­
tests of gentrification, no boycotts by the ranks of the 
food-conscious. For now, everything remains beneath 
the surface, simmering, pasteurizing, if you’ll excuse 
the pun.  

“I mean those cows cost $400,000,” Lapidus contin­
ues. “I live on $1100 a month. It’s a different world. I 
look around and I think, that’s a different world.”

Last weekend, I went to Arethusa on Chapel and 
paid $4.50 for a huge cone of Sweet Cream. As luck 
would have it, Tony and George were there, and I went 
over and said hello. George was rearranging pints of 
ice cream. Tony was telling me how he wants to get 
the word out about the new grilled cheese sandwiches. 
Tony was wrapped in a winter coat, George had a smile 
as wide as a banana. I ask one of the employees if the 
couple often visit the store. “Once in a blue moon.”

It’s difficult to watch George rearranging those pints, 
clad in a Merino wool sweater or whatever and the cus­
tomers sampling new permutations of blue cheese or 
debating the merits between the 1% or 2% milk and 
to be reminded of Litchfield. Or New Haven, for that 
matter. The store is reminiscent of something, yes—but 
I’m not quite sure what. It is a Connecticut divorced 
from the one I grew up in. Yet still the bottles read, 
“Milk like it used to taste.”   
— Jared Newman is a freshman
in Jonathan Edwards College.



**Title: THE THING WE CARRY**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ID cards have given us access to Yale since the ‘90s. What do they signify? 

illustrations by ivy sanders schneider


When Miko McGinty was a senior at Yale in 1993, she 
could get in anywhere. Most students on campus lugged 
around three keys at all times (one for their college’s 
courtyard, one for their entryway, and one for their suite), 
and still had to wait outside the gates of other residential 
colleges until a sympathetic student let them in. McGinty 
made no such sacrifices: as the owner of a master key 
passed down from an upperclassman friend, she was 
one of only about ten students she knew who could get 
through every college gate on campus.

Yale’s administration wasn’t particularly excited 
about the idea of students having unrestricted access to 
buildings, so some time during McGinty’s junior year, 
she says, the University changed locks on campus to 
render the master keys ineffective. Within a few hours, 
though, a student had figured out how to alter the old 
key to fit the new lock. The secret to retaining access 
quickly spread by word-of-mouth. Soon, McGinty says, 
she heard from a friend: “Oh yeah, you take your gate 
key and line it up with your master key—the fourth 
knob on the master key is gonna be wrong, and if you 
file it down it’ll work.”

Although it still exists somewhere (she passed it 
down to a Jonathan Edwards freshman when she grad­
uated), McGinty’s master key is now useless. In 1994, 
Yale began transitioning to the current swipe card sys­
tem for building entry. The mid-nineteen-nineties were 
a tense time for Yale–New Haven relations, particularly 
following the high-profile murder of Christian Prince, 
a student who was shot and killed on Hillhouse Avenue 
one February night in 1991. Across campus, security 
amped up. ID cards, scanned by electronic readers 
stationed at building entrances, were implemented 
as a safer, streamlined, and thoroughly modern alter­
native to keys. Each one only cost $7 to manufacture, 
and electronic card readers cost a few thousand dol­
lars apiece, according to a 1998 Yale Herald article in 
praise of the new “3.3”x2.1”x0.02”” powerhouse.” IDs 
were less to carry, easy to deactivate if lost, fumble-free 
for the student coming off the street late at night. And 
most importantly, perhaps, they were almost impossi­
ble to alter.

As more buildings installed readers over the years, 
the potential access capabilities of the card expanded. 
In 2016, a Yale ID has the technological power to get 
you into most buildings on campus, pay for your food 
and books, and help buy you a drink (if you’re of age). 
More than any navy sweatshirt, an ID is the physical 
manifestation of belonging at Yale. And it now serves 
a tripartite purpose: It marks its holder as a member 
of this community, gives her the ability to physically 
participate in it, and, theoretically, keeps her safe from 
outside threats. But more than twenty years into the 
practice, we take our cards for granted. We forget that 
they symbolize more than the ability to open a gate, 
and we forget what we agree to by carrying a dinky 
piece of plastic in our back pockets.   


Officially, the communities you’re a part of at Yale 
determine your access to the buildings on campus. 
The ID Card Center, a four-person office that oper­
ates under the College’s Security Systems, organizes 
university personnel into groups who either receive or 
are denied access to a particular door and links that 
information to each individual’s card. When you hold 
your ID near the reader of any given building on cam­
pus, the chip inside the card sends out a number that 
identifies you. The reader runs that number through a 
program that checks which groups you fall under, then 
sends a decision via LED light, red or green.

Some buildings, like libraries or academic buildings, 
are open to anyone with a Yale ID, which includes 
undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and 
staff. With the exception of fellows in a particular 
college, professors can only get into the buildings 
that house their offices and classrooms, and college 
staff such as dining hall or facilities workers only have 
access to buildings in the colleges where they work. 
The courtyards of residential colleges are accessible 
to all undergraduate students, but entryways are only 
open for students of that college. In an email, George 
Hines, Director of Security Systems for the University, 
explained that the ID center’s workers can also set time 
boundaries on access for a particular entrance or per­
son. Such requests are handled on an individual basis.

Stuart Teal has served as Program Manager of Yale’s 
Information Technology Services since graduating 
from Yale in 2014. Under the ID system, he explained, 
people should only be able to get into places they need 
to be for University business—but there are loopholes. 
Adam Sokol, a senior in Saybrook College, received 
access to all entryways on campus when he worked for 
the Office of Sustainability on Spring Salvage in 2015. 
That was intentional: His job consisted of going into all 
residential colleges to pick up books and furniture that 
students left behind and compiling it to be reclaimed 
by new owners. But even after the Salvage, as spring 
turned into summer and most students left campus, 
Sokol found he still had access to entryways across 
campus. And the access stuck around more than a year. 
It was only this fall that he found he can no longer get 
into some entryways on campus (though he still has 
access to more than he technically should).

“It wasn’t like I had access to the room where Yale 
keeps its millions of dollars,” he said. “It was just the 
entryways. It’s just a little convenient.”

Technology glitches are to be expected. But such 
seemingly random extensions of access also make sense 
in a more abstract way: Being a student at Yale both 
literally and metaphorically opens doors. Inside the 
college gates, which particular ones you can open can 
feel both arbitrary and unimportant. Once you’re in, 
you’re in.

In this way, a Yale ID is no different from a key—
either you have one or you don’t. But as a form of iden­
tification, the swipe card adds a new dimension. You 
have access because of who you are. And that’s a politi­
cal assertion, especially at a university with a $25.5 bil­
lion endowment in a city where, as of 2015, more than 
one in every four residents lives below the poverty line.


**Title:  THE THING WE CARRY (continued)**
**Page number(s): 18**

Some campus spaces—open areas like Cross Cam­
pus, select libraries during certain hours, the Yale 
University Art Gallery—are available to the public, 
but, without an ID, New Haven residents are other­
wise excluded from campus. Partly, this is simply a 
pragmatic consideration: Yale is a private institution 
embedded in a city. But Architecture professor Elihu 
Rubin, who specializes in the social life of urban space, 
argues that swipe cards can also symbolically reinforce 
of the barriers between New Haven and Yale. 
“Both Yale students and Yale faculty are people with 
a lot of mobility and access in the world at large. And 
the distribution of key card privileges reinforces that 
system of access. But there are a lot of people in New 
Haven who have a lot less mobility and access, both 
physical and social,” he said. 

Alicia Schmidt Camacho, a professor of Ethnicity, 
Race, and Migration and American Studies, works 
with the New Haven organization Junta for Progres­
sive Action. She said she understands the need for 
security, and thinks access to physical campus space 
is less important than other areas in which Yale could 
improve its relationship to the city, such as its hiring 
practices and downtown development strategy. 
But, she said, part of being a community means you 
can trust that people are looking out for you. The IDs 
are symbolic of that dynamic—they mark Yale students 
as the University’s top concern and all others as poten­
tial threats. In asserting its responsibility to protect Yale 
students, however, the University also gains the power 
to keep track of them. 


In September 2009, 24-year-old medical student 
Annie Le went missing days before she was supposed 
to be married. In the attempts to find her, Yale Police 
looked to the locational data provided by her ID. The 
last campus building she’d entered was 10 Amistad St., 
where she worked in a lab. They then checked security 
footage from that building, which showed her entering 
at 10 a.m. and never leaving. After a thorough search, 
police found Le’s body hidden inside a wall. Swipe 
card information was also crucial to identifying the 
murderer. Only certain IDs were able to access the lab, 
and looking at the database to figure out who had that 
permission eventually led police to their suspect. Lab 
technician Raymond Clark III pled guilty to strangling 
Le and was sentenced to forty-four years in prison.

Locational data doesn’t usually yield such useful 
or sinister information. In fact, most of the time, it’s 
not used at all. George Hines assured me over email 
that students are not being “tracked.” Swipe cards fall 
under the University’s acceptable use policy for tech­
nology, which states that University officials can access 
information about University personnel without their 
permission only when identifying or fixing system prob­
lems, when investigating a potential violation of the 
law, or to carry out essential University business func­
tions. But the more specific information about who 
gets that access, what scenarios fit those criteria, and 
how those data could be used to benefit the University, 
is less publicized. 

After emailing Hines multiple times without 
response last month, I went to the Yale Security Depart­
ment’s office, tucked away in a corner next to the park­
ing garage by Yale Health. The door was locked and I 
had to tap on the window to get the attention of one of 
the men sitting by a series of computer monitors pro­
jecting footage from around campus. After a moment, 
somebody let me in and led me down a long hallway 
to Hines’ office. He was friendly and apologized for not 
answering my emails, but he was clear—at security,



**Title: Access Granted**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
they don’t like to talk about security. When I asked to 
visit the access office and talk to the people who work 
there, he offered to get responses to my questions from 
the PR team instead. Those responses, when they came 
over email, were chipper but vague: “an individual’s 
card is programmed with appropriate access, based on 
their role at the university.”


Teal said it’s not ironic that the “access” people are 
so hard to access. Their job is to protect the University 
and the people associated with it, which requires pro­
tecting the information about how they do so. But such 
layers of obscurity make you wonder: If we can’t access 
the information being collected about us, then what do 
we actually have access to?


“[We] know that privacy is a thing that a lot of peo­
ple care about,” said Teal, “and unfortunately, at the 
moment, the balance between letting you know how 
things work and not letting you know how things work 
is leaning towards not letting you know how things work 
until we know it’s safe to let you know how things work.”


Still, no matter how well they guard their methods, 
Yale security is not the final arbiter of campus access—
and they know it. “We have strict controls in place for 
residential colleges but, like any access control system, 
or physical key, the system only works if people abide 
by it,” Hines wrote.


You can’t file down the tooth of a master key any­
more. But once you’re granted access to a place like 
Yale, you can get in almost anywhere, whether entry is 
doled out by four workers in an enigmatic office or by 
a student holding open the gate on Elm Street. Being 
“in,” though, also means buying in—accepting mem­
bership in this community and all that comes with it. 
When we absent-mindedly bump our pockets against 
the card readers and wait for the IDs to do their magic, 
it’s worth thinking about what, exactly, the ensuing 
green light means.
— Annie Rosenthal is a freshman
in Berkeley College.



**Title: Grave Disposition**
**Author: Isaac Kirk-Davidoff**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

On the J4 bus to Waterbury, I pulled out my notebook 
and wrote two lines: “Isabel Gillis,” my distant English 
relative, and “my mom’s mom’s mom’s grave,” the reason 
I was on the bus. It was a blustery mid-September day, and 
I was headed to meet Isabel so that we could tour old fam­
ily dwellings together. The bus slowly made its way from 
the New Haven Green, passing through a landscape of 
strip malls and overgrown medians. 


In 1909, my great-great grandfather John Gillis 
immigrated to the United States from Ludgvan, a small 
town in Cornwall, England. He arrived in New York 
City on Christmas Eve and soon moved to Waterbury, 
seeking work in a brass mill. By 1948, the year he died, 
Waterbury had become the center of brass production 
in the United States, earning the nickname “The Brass 
City.” The city’s official motto is Quid Aere Perennius, 
Latin for “What is more lasting than brass?” The indus­
try has long since collapsed, but in John Gillis’s day, 
it was thriving, unlike the Cornish mining industry he 
left behind.


Until recently, I knew none of this. All of this infor­
mation came from Isabel, my grandmother’s cousin, 
who traveled to Connecticut to see John’s grave as part 
of a longer genealogical trip through America. The 
trip was the culmination of several years of research 
into her family’s history, which included a large fam­
ily reunion last summer to which I wasn’t invited. 
Through my grandmother, Isabel found out I went to 
Yale and emailed me, asking if I wanted to come along 
to Waterbury. I told Isabel that, yes, I was interested in 
seeing the graves, and that I wanted to learn a bit more 
about my genealogy. But, in the back of my mind, I 
thought it seemed like a story better told than experi­
enced first-hand. One twenty-email thread on renting 
cars later, I was off to meet her in Waterbury. 


Isabel picked me up at the bus stop in her Zipcar. 
She was in her sixties, older than she sounded on the 
phone, with short grey hair and ruddy cheeks. I had 
been worrying about what one wears to the graves of 
long-dead relatives, and I eventually settled on a black 
shirt with a picture of ruins on it. She was wearing a 
loud floral print dress, navy blue leggings, and a large 
floppy hat. She pulled over to the side of the street, 
took out her tablet, and opened up a PowerPoint titled 
“Isaac’s Waterbury Adventure.” During a fifteen minute 
tour through various Ancestry.com files, she showed 
me our family tree and several census records. Pointing 
at my great grandmother’s signature on her naturaliza­
tion form, she exclaimed, “That’s her signature, she 
wrote that!”


As we started driving to the Pine Grove Cemetery, 
she told me the story of how she got interested in our 
family’s history. Her brother had visited Ellis Island 
a few years ago and called her, saying, “I found our 
grandfather. He’s from Ludgvan.” She compared her 
journey to “Who Do You Think You Are,” a British TV 
show in which celebrities are taken through their gene­
alogy and invariably find that their ancestors led fasci­
nating lives. But it seemed like this assumption only left 
room for the stories she wanted to hear. As Isabel spoke, 
all I could think about was how Ben Affleck refused to 
air an episode of the PBS version of the show, “Find­
ing Your Roots,” that revealed his ancestors had been 
slave owners. 


I had my doubts about the whole endeavor because I 
had gone looking for a relative’s grave before. Near the 
tail-end of a road trip a few years ago, my grandfather, 
the product of a long line of Pennsylvania Quakers, had 
taken us to an old farm in Pennsylvania to search for 
the chestnut tree where my great-grandfather’s ashes 
were scattered. We ran into a distant relative with a 
foot-long beard who accused us of trying to flatter him 
into bequeathing the farm to us. After assuring him 
we weren’t, we stumbled around in a bramble patch 
for half an hour, looking for the tree. The jaunt came 
to a suitable anti-climax when it was revealed that the 
chestnut, which he remembered had miraculously sur­
vived a blight, had died some years ago. 


Isabel’s enthusiasm about the trip, though, was infec­
tious. By the time we arrived at the Pine Grove Ceme­
tery, a small plot off a four-lane highway, I had gotten 
into the spirit of things. Isabel led us straight into the 
cemetery’s office — a quiet, green-carpeted room with 
wood vinyl walls and plaques from the Connecticut 
Crematory Association — and requested that the secre­
tary show us our ancestors’ burial records. The woman 
slowly walked to a large, messy file closet and pulled 
out a giant book and a folder. 


The Gillis’ graves were in the Old Pine Grove Ceme­
tery, a separate section of the graveyard. My mom, whom 
Isabel had shown photos of the graves, had warned me 
that our family’s section was not particularly impres­
sive. (Back at the offices, the secretary had mentioned 
that the graves were “starter level.”) The graves of John, 
my great-great grandfather, and Susan, my great-great-
grandmother, were about the size of a brick, weathered 
and partially obscured by grass. Isabel was thrilled, but I 
couldn’t see beneath the pieces of stone.


Isabel pointed to an adjacent grave. “Laura Gillis 
Williams-Hough,” she said, referring to my great-great 
aunt, who died in 1985. “Her maiden name was Gillis, 
her first husband was Williams, her second husband 
was called Hough. So she lived 1894-1985, but she’s 
buried with her first husband.” I made a joke about 
this being evidence that she preferred the first hus­
band. “Park the cynicism,” Isabel said. Dropping her 
voice, she explained that the first husband, Joseph John 
Williams, had died in 1921 in an accident in the brass 
foundry. “She lost the love of her life. The love of her 
life after three years of marriage,” Isabel said, looking 
straight at me. All I could stammer out was: “That’s 
rough. That’s bad.”


Afterwards, we took pictures of the graves (and of 
each other by the graves) and went back to the car to 
drive to the various ancestral addresses Isabel had com­
piled. This was the real adventure, the living history 
part where she could derive her ancestors’ stories from 
the spaces they used to inhabit.


I had no idea what I would say to someone who 
opened the door to us. It was just as well that the first 
address, the home that my great-grandmother Lillian 
had rented, was an empty lot, black, cracked, and scat­
tered with cigarello wrappers and an empty Big Gulp. 
Isabel seemed a bit disappointed. I tried to make up for 
photographs by the author 



**Title: NOVEMBER 2016**
**Author: Isaac Kirk-Davidoff**
**Page number(s): 23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2016
 23
it, telling her that paved-over history was still history, 
but she seemed unconvinced. She wanted the house, 
the fixed physical form.

Back in the car, we headed to East Farm Street, 
where Isabel had recorded two addresses. John Gillis 
had once rented a room at 116 East Farm, which was 
now a funeral home. In the 1920s, the whole family 
had rented 130 East Farm, which was still standing. 
The street included several empty lots and boarded up 
houses. Isabel reassured me that “if you strip back the 
years,” these houses would have been very nice, espe­
cially compared to those in Cornwall, which remains 
one of the poorest parts of England. The house itself, 
split into three units and surrounded by a waist-high 
chain link fence, was covered in chipped green and 
white paint.

Two men in a green van parked out front were 
talking to another man standing in the doorway of 
the house. Isabel went up and introduced herself to 
them, explained what we were doing, and asked the 
men if they had any memories of the area. William, a 
balding man in his sixties inside the van, said that he 
had moved there from Virginia in the sixties, and had 
grown up with the other two men.
 “This was a beautiful place in the sixties, it really 
was. A nice place to grow up,” he said. Isabel was 
pleased with this.

William suggested we take some dirt from the house as 
a souvenir. He pointed to a discarded water bottle on the 
ground that we could put it in. Despite all that has hap­
pened since the twenties, he said, “the dirt doesn’t change.”

I picked up the empty water bottle while Isabel took 
some pictures. I dug into the hard ground with my fin­
gers, and gathered the powdery gray dirt into the bottle. 
This, unlike the graves or the documents, finally felt 
like something real, a physical link to my past. 

As we drove to our last stop, Naugatuck, where my 
grandmother grew up and where Isabel would drop me 
off at the train, she told me emphatically that the Gil­
lis family was “not destitute,” that compared to Corn­
wall, the houses would have been “spacious.” It seemed 
strange to me that she insisted on this repeatedly, espe­
cially since my grandmother had told me that the Gil­
lises had lived hard lives in small apartments without 
any heating.

As we approached the final house, my great-grand­
parents’ first home in Naugatuck, Isabel seemed 
relieved. It was a fairly plain, three-story house with 
blue plastic siding. She proclaimed that this was much 
more like the type of neighborhood my ancestors grew 
up in. It was, of course, a big step up from Ludgvan. It 
fit the story she’d built through census forms and old 
photographs: that the Gillises, who persevered through 
the Great Depression, worked long but satisfying hours 
in the brass factory and were happy. 

Isabel then dropped me off at the Naugatuck train 
station. We said our goodbyes and then she drove up 
to Hartford to meet some family friends for dinner. 
Though we each promised to write each other, we still 
haven’t. As I took the Metro North train back to New 
Haven with my bottle of dirt, I wondered why spend­
ing an afternoon retracing my distant ancestors’ steps 
had not been enough to make me feel close to them. I 
wasn’t inspired by Laura’s love or saddened by Joseph’s 
short life. They were still just my mom’s mom’s mom’s 
family graves.

For Isabel, the project was more immediate. Until her 
brother had gone to look at the immigration records, 
she had had no idea where her grandfather came from. 
That discovery prompted an international journey to 
learn the story of her family — her story of herself. 
And I had agreed to meet her because I also wanted to 
craft a narrative: my “Waterbury Adventure,” in which 
I went to see my ancestors’ graves with a wacky, dis­
tant relative. Isabel’s insistence that our ancestors’ lives 
had been “nice,” of course, was just right for my story. 
But her determination to peer into the past was unde­
niably powerful. I couldn’t see what she could, but I 
wanted to. Maybe that’s why, though my ecology-liter­
ate housemate assured me that the dirt underneath 130 
East Farm Street does indeed change continuously, the 
bottle still rests on a table in my room.
— Isaac Kirk-Davidoff is a junior
in Jonathan Edwards College.


I WONDERED WHY SPENDING 
AN AFTERNOON RETRACING 
MY DISTANT ANCESTORS’ 
STEPS HAD NOT BEEN 
ENOUGH TO MAKE ME FEEL 
CLOSE TO THEM.


**Title: The Week After**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 24**

The 
Week
After
New Haven communities 
react to the election of 
Donald Trump 
1
2
3
4
6
7
8



**Title: On Election Day, New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On Election Day, New Haven was on the wrong side of a 
historic upset. Over thirty-four thousand Elm City voters cast 
ballots for Hillary Clinton; just under five thousand chose 
president-elect Donald J. Trump. After the race was over—
settled in far-away places like southwest Virginia and Kenosha 
County, Wisconsin—the result dominated conversations all 
over the city, sparking endless debates about its significance 
and what to expect from a Trump presidency. The following 
vignettes are not meant to offer a comprehensive portrait of 
New Haven residents’ reactions. Rather, they offer glimpses 
into the ways people respond to national division, 
whether in a school, on the street, or in a church.
This is how uncertainty 
in America felt in the wake of 
November 8, 2016.
5
map data © Google 2016


**Title: “What Now? What Next?”**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 26**

1. “What Now? What Next?” 
Dwight Chapel, Yale University
Wednesday night
The Facebook event was called “What 
Now? What Next?” But by the time some 
two hundred Yale students trickled into 
Dwight Hall’s common room on Wednes­
day night—about twenty-four hours after 
it became clear that the vast majority of 
campus had cast their vote for the losing 
candidate—the mood was less for­
ward-looking than funereal. If you believed 
the punditry, we were “the establish­
ment” Trump’s voters had punished. What 
now? What next? 
Conversations began with hugs, and they 
mostly went the same way. 
“How have you been holding up?”
“Not great.”
People sat in a circle on the hardwood 
floor, and organizers (a new group called 
the “Yale Student Group Leaders”) 
thanked everyone for coming. They 
opened the floor. A leader with Unidad 
Latina en Acción invited everyone to the 
protest Thursday evening. A representa­
tive of the Office of International Students 
& Scholars assured the crowd that Yale 
would do everything in its power to 
protect the twenty percent of its students 
who are not American citizens. A fresh­
man read a poem. He said of America, 
“What we thought it was isn’t actually 
what it is.” A boy in the corner carried 
a sign that said “White Supremacy: I’m 
Coming for That Ass.” 


**Title: Civics class**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

2. Civics class
High School in the Community 
Thursday morning
The students in Justin Scully’s third-period 
civics class at High School in the Commu­
nity, a New Haven public school on Union 
Street, laugh more on November 10 than 
they did on November 9. The day after 
Donald Trump’s election, both Carolyn 
Martinez and Vartaysha Reed cried during 
class. Today, though, the juniors have a 
test on the foundations of the US govern­
ment—the Virginia Plan, the Articles of 
Confederation, a bonus question of who’s 
on the ten dollar bill—and the tears are 
gone. Morning light floods through the 
windows onto the linoleum floor. Before 
Scully passes out the test, I ask the class a 
few questions about how they’re feeling.
Tyron Huston sits in the center row of the 
desks and remembers the previous day. 
“Justin was really depressed,” he says, 
smirking. Scully nods. Martinez jumps 
in to say that she is terrified, and others 
assent. The students—none of whom 
are old enough to vote—used to joke 
about Trump’s campaign, but the humor 
is different now. It’s more exhausted; a 
placeholder for resignation.
Scully cuts through the chatter to point out 
Laurel Cubellotti, the class’s only Trump 
supporter. She reluctantly reports that 
she’s happy with the results, tacking on a 
bashful “sorry” and a shrug. She doesn’t 
seem victorious. “I’m actually really 
shocked,” she says. “When he won, I 
didn’t know what to do.” Scully adds that 
Trump’s New York hotel, which he has vis-
ited, is, in fact, nice. (Reed retorts that her 
grandmother has been there, too, “and 
she says it’s trash.”)
The students move on, discussing a 
recount, whether Bernie Sanders might 
have defeated Trump, and the rumor that 
fourteen thousand Americans voted for 
the slain gorilla Harambe. When Scully 
passes out the tests, things quiet down. 
Now, they have to remember how many 
states had to ratify the Bill of Rights.  
When backpacks start zipping closed an 
hour later, Scully reminds them about  
their upcoming essay on John Locke.  
The bell rings.


**Title: “United Against Hatred”**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**

3. “United Against Hatred”
New Haven Green
Thursday night
Three hundred protesters surged out 
of the plaza in front of the Connecti­
cut Financial Center and onto Church 
Street on the Thursday evening after the 
election. Unidad Latina en Acción, a New 
Haven-based immigrant rights advocacy 
group, had planned the demonstration at 
a meeting the night before. Organizer Dan 
Ravizza brought a bass drum, emblazoned 
with a Jolly Roger, from the Local No. 24 
Carpenters Union. He fired up the crowd 
with a pulsating beat.
University of Connecticut student and 
ULA member Jesus Morales-Sanchez 
spoke first. “Trump has given his implicit 
permission to hate,” he said. “Now we 
know for sure the fight must continue.” 
photo by elena saavedra-buckley
Susan Bramhall, a member of Jewish 
Voice for Peace who has participated in 
protests in New Haven since 1969, said 
the protest was the largest she’d seen 
since the Iraq War. 
At the behest of John Lugo, the co- 
founder of ULA, the crowd chanted a 
call-and-response: 
“Whose streets?” 
“Our streets!”
The protestors marched around the 
Green. As the crowd circled Rite Aid, it 
fell into rhyme: “Hey hey! Ho ho! Don-
ald Trump has got to go!” Shop owners 
peered out of their storefronts as they 
passed by – young and old, organizers and 
attendees, students and residents – wield-
ing banners, linking arms, bringing the city 
center to a halt.
Herman Zuniga, president of Community 
Immigrants of East Haven, shouted into 
the night, his voice breaking. “I came to 
this country twenty-nine years ago. I am 
one hundred percent immigrant. I fought 
for my papers for seventeen years,” he 
told the crowd. “Who are you, Donald 
Trump, to tell us to choose between reli-
gion, color, gender, or political party? Who 
are you, Mr. Trump?”
photo by isabelle taft


**Title: Board of Alders meeting**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett**

4. Board of Alders meeting
City Hall
New Haven’s alders filed into their cham­
bers in City Hall for their first full meeting 
since Donald J. Trump became America’s 
president-elect. On Thursday evening, the 
mood was subdued; every New Haven 
alder belongs to the Democratic Party. 
Alder President Tyisha Walker of Ward 
23 called the meeting to order, and the 
alders rose for the customary prayer for 
“Divine Guidance.”
Ward 10 Alder Anna Festa walked sol-
emnly to the podium. “In light of every-
thing that’s been going on in our country 
with immigration, I thought it would be 
nice to read a biographical narrative my 
daughter wrote about her grandmother,” 
she said. 
Festa told the story of her mother, Linda, 
who immigrated from Amarosi, Italy to 
New Haven in the early nineteen-sixties. 
Linda embraced her new city, Festa said, 
finding work in a dress shop and support 
from the local Italian community. She 
soon married and began raising a family in 
her home on Orange Street.
The alders applauded as Festa returned 
to her seat. With muted efficiency, they 
moved through the items on the agenda 
and personal announcements—an 
upcoming Thanksgiving turkey drive, birth-
day wishes for an absent alder—and the 
meeting adjourned after only half an hour. 
Standing in the threshold of the cham-
bers, Ward 25 Alder Adam Marchand 
said that the election results were more 
than disappointing, especially given the 
strong voter turnout in his district. He 
emphasized that despite Trump’s threat 
to revoke federal funding for all sanctuary 
cities, New Haven would maintain its 
identity as a place of acceptance  
and refuge.
The disorientation generated by the elec-
tion seemed to linger in the chambers as 
the alders drifted out. Tidying up after-
wards, a staff member handed a copy of 
Trump’s plan for his first one hundred days 
in office to a security guard, who shook 
his head in disbelief.



**7. Downtown**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7. Downtown
Saturday night
DJ Gabby plays Top 40 and Latin hits at 
Partners Cafe on Saturdays like this, but 
tonight, after the presidential election, the 
dance floor is deserted. Beyoncé plays in 
the bar downstairs. I’m sitting next to a 
couple of hockey players in Yale jerseys 
who are finishing their beers, wondering 
if the Rangers are still up. Across the bar, 
two locals boasting chest tattoos and 
green lipstick debrief the election in half­
hearted murmurs.


<br/>

**6. Planned Parenthood**
**Author: Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

6. Planned Parenthood 
East Rock
Saturday morning
Outside the Planned Parenthood at the 
intersection of Whitney Avenue and 
Edwards Street, the first Saturday after 
Trump’s election is like most Satur­
day mornings: The clinic is performing 
abortions, and people outside are holding 
brightly colored signs, engaged in protest 
and counter-protest.
Across the street from the clinic, a pro-
choice man named Chris with a cigarette 
tucked behind one ear uses his sign to 
obscure that of a pro-life activist named 
Barrie. Hers has a picture of two ultra­
sounds with the caption: “Which of these 
two human beings was conceived in 
rape?” When Barrie moves, Chris follows 
her. She raises her sign. He raises his.   
Barrie finally says, soothingly, “I’m 
praying for you, Chris.” He angrily wheels 
around to face her, their body-length signs 
pressed together. Barrie takes off her 
sunglasses. “Back up, Chris.” He doesn’t. 
They stand in gridlock. 
Later, after moving to another side of the 
street, Chris tells me the pro-life protes-
tors are emboldened by Trump. “Their guy 
might have won the White House, but we 
will win the struggle,” he says. Eyeing 
Chris across the street, Barrie says direct 
confrontations like this are rare. “This type 
of behavior is, of course, because of the 
election,” she says.  
Chris foresees this type of conflict escalat-
ing in Trump’s America. He cites Obama’s 
plans to permanently protect Planned 
Parenthood’s funding and says: “Because 
Trump can’t do anything with the funding, 
they’ll harass patients and people like us.” 
He crosses his arms, feet firmly planted 
on the sidewalk.   
And Barrie? “I’ll be here every Saturday 
until I die,” she says, “or I move.” What 
if Trump appoints a Justice to overturn 
Roe v. Wade? “Not going to happen,” she 
sighs. “No chance.” 
At 10:30 a.m., the protest is over, and the 
sign-holders get in cars — some plastered 
with Clinton stickers, some with Trump. 
They’ll be back next Saturday. And the one 
after that. And the one after that.



**5. The Annex Club**
**Author: Juliette Neil**

5. The Annex Club 
East Shore
Thursday night
 
 The Annex Club sits just off I-95 on the 
way to East Haven. Founded in 1938 as a 
center for Italian-American men, the Club 
is now run by the sons and grandsons 
of its first generation. Joe Tirotello, who 
is eighty-eight, is one of those men. At 
6:30 p.m. on November 10, he sits inside, 
having just bought a ticket for Bingo Night, 
a main source of the Annex Club’s income. 
He immediately asks me if I voted.
“I seen a lot of them,” Tirotello says of 
elections. “This is the worst one. Now 
that he’s our president, even if I don’t like 
him, I got to back him up. I did the same 
thing with Kennedy.” What makes Joe 
most unhappy, though, is the anti-Trump 
rallying occurring in downtown New 
Haven and across the country.
“I don’t really know what the hell they’re 
mad at,” he tells me. “I don’t believe in 
violence, anyways. Just makes us look like 
a bunch of idiots.”
Ed and Shirley, who, like most of the 
others I meet, have been coming to the 
Club for “too long,” sit in the back with 
their friend Gail. Shirley tells me that her 
mother wouldn’t allow her to accept a 
college scholarship “because girls don’t 
go to college.” When I ask her how she 
felt about Hillary, she tisks. “She’s just a 
liar. I think he’ll be fabulous.”
Gail, who volunteered for Trump, eagerly 
chimes in: “They’ll shoot you through your 
window if you have a Trump sign.  
It’s politics.”
Tirotello is one of the only non Trump-sup-
porters that I meet at the Annex Club, and 
the only one to bring up the election with-
out my asking, but he still joins in when 
the bingo starts. The first-place prize last 
week was five hundred dollars; tonight’s 
players are feeling lucky.



**8. Dixwell Avenue Congregational United Church of Christ**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**

8. Dixwell Avenue Congregational 
United Church of Christ 
Dixwell 
Sunday morning
Until Reverend Porsha Williams’ sermon, 
the service at the Dixwell Avenue Con-
gregational United Church of Christ had 
been mostly business as usual. Couples 
smiled and greeted each other as they 
found their seats, the teen choir sang in 
rainbow stoles, and the speakers did what 
they had long planned to do that morning: 
honor their congregation’s graduates of 
the historically black Bennett and More-
house Colleges and pay tribute to their late 
pastor, Reverend Dr. Edwin R. Edmonds. 
Even the earlier mentions of Trump’s elec-
tion hadn’t relayed any shock or despair. 
“We’ve been here before,” said Toni 
Walker, a Connecticut state representative 
and the daughter of Reverend Edmonds. 
“With President Reagan, and in the early 
nineteen-hundreds. This is just a setback.”
Williams, a guest preacher, wasn’t just 
there to talk about progress and setbacks. 
“By the rivers of Babylon, we sat down 
and wept, when we remembered Zion,” 
she began her sermon, quoting Psalm 137 
and comparing the Black community to 
the Israelites in exile. “The Psalm says, 
‘For there our captors asked us for songs, 
our tormentors demanded songs of joy.’ 
But we are not here for your entertain-
ment. Our songs mean something to us, 
and we are not in Zion.”
People in the crowd started to shout in 
assent. “They are wondering how we’re 
still a people of faith. How after slavery, 
you can still smile, how after Jim Crow, 
you can still dance, how after the war 
on drugs, you can leap for joy, how after 
mass incarceration, you can still sing.” 
Nearly everyone was crying out now, 
some standing or holding up their hands. 
Williams kept speaking, louder and louder, 
without stopping to take a breath. “You 
say to them that God did that,” she said, 
“God did that all by himself.”



**Post-Election Reflections**
**Author: Spencer Bokat-Lindell**
**Page number(s): 29**

“How do I feel?” asks Orbel, one of the 
other people at the bar who is sipping a 
pink cocktail and talking to his friend in 
Spanish. He hesitates for a few moments, 
as if to gird himself for the answer. “I’m 
not afraid.” 
Orbel—whose name is an amalgamation 
of Isabel and Orlando—moved from his 
native Puerto Rico after earning his busi-
ness degree there in 2012, and he’s been 
working at a consulting firm in the North-
east ever since. “The laws were passed—
they can’t just change them.” He worries 
about new appointments to the Supreme 
Court, though, not to mention how people 
might treat him outside places like this. “I 
guess I’m fifty percent afraid.”
For Jerimarie Liesegang, a Trump White 
House is no great surprise. “Is it shock-
ing?” she laughed. “No. It’s the last 
gasp of the great white group.” When 
Liesegang transitioned in the nineties, 
there were even fewer legal protections 
for trans people, which inspired her to 
found the Connecticut TransAdvocacy 
Coalition almost twenty years ago. She’s 
not convinced that queer youth, especially 
queer people of color, are much safer now. 
She points out that you can still get fired in 
most states for being gay or trans. 
As for the next four years, her plans hav-
en’t much changed. “All I can say is I’m 
going to keep trying to fuck the system.” 
I ask her if she sees a storm gathering. 
She shakes her head. It’s been raging for 
a while, she says, and storms like these 
never really pass. 
– Spencer Bokat-Lindell



**Resurrecting Holy Land**
**Author: Antonia Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 30**

 30
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
RESURRECTING
HOLY 
LAND
by Antonia Ayres-Brown
photographs by Elinor Hills



**Title: After a murder, Waterbury begins to rebuild its abandoned Catholic theme park**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A cross stands in the center of Waterbury, Connecti­
cut. It’s atop Pine Hill, wedged between I-84 and Route 8, 
and inside Holy Land USA, a shuttered Catholic theme 
park. Most Saturdays and Sundays, you can find Bill 
Fitzpatrick below the cross, clearing brush from the path 
between “Jerusalem” and “Bethlehem Village,” clusters 
of biblical replicas made of plywood and stainless steel. 
Chuck Pagano, the President of Holy Land’s Board of 
Directors, will glimpse the cross as he flies out of Bradley 
Airport to catch a Packers game in Green Bay. Though 
Mayor Neil O’Leary cannot see the cross from his corner 
office in Waterbury’s City Hall, a drawing of Holy Land’s 
original layout is displayed upon a cabinet. Katerina Val­
enti eyes the cross through a window in her biology class­
room at Sacred Heart High School.

Constructed in 1956, Holy Land USA was New 
England’s first religious theme park. The attraction was 
founded by a wealthy Waterbury attorney, John Greco, 
and was composed of more than 125 religious mini-ex­
hibits. Despite the park’s initial success, the property 
aged poorly and eventually fell into a state of disrepair. 
Replicas became remains and the area turned into a 
site of vandalism. In 2010, Holy Land’s aura changed 
from deserted to tragic. A local teenager, Chloe Ott­
man, was murdered on the grounds, shocking the 
city and forcing residents to address the future of the 
abandoned park.

While fundraising efforts following Ottman’s murder 
led O’Leary and a local car dealer to purchase the land 
for $350,000, Waterbury’s healing cannot be so easily 
quantified. The small city situated in Connecticut’s 
“manufacturing valley” received national media atten­
tion for a few weeks after the murder before newspapers 
lost interest. Nowadays, Ottman’s death is a hushed sub­
ject. Her name is spoken in quiet tones, followed with 
murmurs—“It’s really too bad.” The park reopened in 
2014, but Holy Land’s period of abandonment remains 
a somber footnote in the property’s history. As one res­
ident recalled, “The bad stuff happened up there and 
then no one went.”


A locked chain link gate guards the crumbling 
entrance of the property a few hundred yards from 
the cross. An attached poster board reads “NO TRES­
PASSING. Violators will be prosecuted,” in bold red 
lettering. The neighborhood seems to listen, opting to 
observe the cross from afar. On an October afternoon, 
there’s no sign of people besides two boys pushing a 
toddler on a tricycle down the road outside the gate. 
Fifty years ago, this scene looked quite different. Older 
Waterbury residents recall Sunday picnics at Holy 
Land and races to see who could pick the most blue­
berries from the bushes on the outskirts of the property. 
But for those without these memories, it’s hard to see 
beyond the cracked asphalt driveway and the conspicu­
ous video surveillance.

Some of Holy Land’s advocates say that Ottman’s 
murder motivated them to take back the park from 
abandon. Others refuse to let the crime taint their 
memories of Holy Land. As Chuck Pagano explains, 
“I look at life myself, personally, like sailing a boat. 
You gotta jibe. You gotta tack. But you gotta keep your 
eye on the mark. And I think that’s what this group is 
focused on now: keeping our eye on the mark. But it 
was a dark episode.” 
Can the loss of a sixteen-year-old’s life be reduced to 
a single dark moment in the history of a revered place? 
Or does it change the place forever? Should it? Holy 
Land USA is both the best of Waterbury and the worst: 
a symbol of its golden age and its decline, a temple and 
a tomb. This duality still permeates the park’s identity 
today, begging the question of whether sites of trauma 
should be redeemed and transformed—or preserved 
for what they have become.


**Title: Life**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

A 1950’s black-and-white photograph of John Greco 
hangs in the Holy Land chapel. He sits in a wooden 
chair with his left hand gripping his opposite wrist. His 
smile is cautious, as though he’s uncertain whether 
his portrait belongs next to the twentieth century pietà 
that looms to its right. Holy Land organizers have kept 
the portrait on display as a eulogy to the religious site’s 
founder. There’s much more to learn about Greco, 
however, from what’s outside— the remnant of his 
labor of love, Holy Land USA.

“When you were in his presence, you felt the spirit 
come through your core,” says Rebecca Calabrese, Gre­
co’s great-niece. Born in Waterbury in 1895, Greco and 
his family returned to his parents’ hometown in Avel­
lino, Italy when his father could not find work. He only 
later moved back to the States for his education at the 


Catholic University of Washington, D.C. Perpetually 
ill as an adolescent, Greco had to delay school indefi­
nitely. After finally recovering, he earned a full scholar­
ship to attend Yale Law School and stayed in Connecti­
cut for the rest of his life. His descendants say that he 
never fully shook his internal desire to become a priest. 
He founded an Italian ethnicity group and devoted his 
free time to tutoring recent Italian immigrants (“all pro-
bono” his family still boasts). He later started Catholic 
Campaigners for Christ, where he developed the idea 
to construct a Catholic theme park. By 1956, the group 
had erected a thirty-two-foot neon crucifix on Pine Hill, 
and Holy Land USA became a reality.

Sites of Christian tourism were not uncommon in 
the 1950’s, and they continue to thrive in the South 
today. Another “Holy Land USA” opened in the 1960’s 
in Del Rio, Texas. An additional park in Orlando, Flor­
ida called “The Holy Land Experience” lets visitors be 
baptized in a chlorinated pool by a John the Baptist 
impersonator. “Ark Encounter,” a $100 million recre­
ation of Noah’s ark, opened in Kentucky in July 2016. 
The ark replica is 510 feet long and houses a zoo. These 
parks differ widely in offerings, but their popularity and 
high budgets reveal the passion with which religious 
fundamentalists have sought to create religious spaces 
outside the church to inspire the faithful and, perhaps, 
attract new members to the flock.

In Waterbury, Holy Land USA succeeded at becom­
ing a community place that everyone knew, regardless 
of religion. The park was composed of religious rep­
licas, exhibits, and spaces for reflection. Park visitors 
summited the hill and passed through two archways 
labeled “Holy Land” and “Jerusalem.” From this point, 
they could observe miniature replicas of notable places 
from the Bible, including Herod’s Palace and an inn 
with a “No Vacancy” sign. The inn was large, like a 
children’s playhouse, with scrappy plastic windowing 
and a bold red door frame. Figurines of the nativity 
scene sat in a cave-like structure, blocked off by black 
metal bars. A nearby plaque on the ground read “Every 
Day Is Christmas.” Visitors could take pictures at the 
“Dignity of Marriage” exhibit, which highlighted bib­
lical evidence for the sanctity of matrimony. The nar­
rative pathway of Jesus’ life wrapped around Pine Hill 
and culminated at the glowing cross. 

A donation bucket sat at the exit of the park for fif­
ty-cent parking contributions, but most revenue came 
from the Holy Land collections that local churches 
hosted about six times each year. With an average 
of forty thousand visitors annually, Holy Land didn’t 
have much trouble staying busy or financially afloat. 
Hordes of vehicles, an average of five hundred cars and 
thirty buses each weekend, navigated the steep climb 
up Pine Hill to unload tourists at the park. For many, 
Holy Land was the humble destination of countless 
personal pilgrimages.

Chuck Pagano grew up in the Brooklyn neighbor­
hood of Waterbury next to Saint Patrick’s Church. 
Most Decembers, his parents would take him to the 
Saint Patrick’s nativity scene before bringing him up to 
Holy Land, which he says always struck him as “a nativ­
ity scene on steroids.” Linda Barone, another lifelong 
Waterbury resident, remembers from childhood the 
realism of the Holy Land exhibits. She would follow 
her family around the park, careful not to venture too 
close to the crypt replicas. After reaching the cross, her 
family would convene again and return home to watch 
Jesus Christ Superstar on Sunday nights.

Visiting the park became as ritualistic as church 
itself to many Waterbury residents. Pagano attributes 
Holy Land’s success to the universality of its message: 
peace, reflection, and acceptance. “I think Holy Land 
was a magnet.” In his opinion, regardless of people’s 
backgrounds, Waterbury residents considered the park 
a place of reflection. With its cross glowing in the 
sky from the highest point in the city, Holy Land was 
impossible to ignore, Pagano says, “And they had good 
blueberries up there too.”

John Greco died in 1986, at the age of ninety-one, 
and designated in his will that Holy Land be left to 
an order of nuns, the Religious Teachers of Filippini. 
Several nuns moved onto the property, but they weren’t 
able to handle the upkeep. Fearing liability from acci­
dental injury, the religious order officially closed the 
park soon after inheriting it. Holy Land remained 
sealed for three decades.

Keeping 17.7 acres of land sealed, of course, is a dif­
ficult task, and the nuns attempted it half-heartedly. 
In 1997, the nuns granted a troop of Boy Scouts per­
mission to renovate the Hollywood-style Holy Land 
USA sign that rests on Pine Hill above I-84. A decade 
later, in 2007, a coalition of local Catholic volunteers 
scraped together enough money to replace the crum­
bling crucifix with a fifty-foot, stainless steel cross. The 
new cross was not internally lit, making it harder to see 
at a distance. As the lights dimmed on Holy Land, the 
park sank further into disrepair.


**Title: Death**
**Page number(s): 33**

RoadsideAmerica.com suggests skipping a visit to 
Holy Land USA if you don’t have an up-to-date tetanus 
shot. Grassy clumps peek through fissures in the side­
walk outside the chapel. Discarded plywood replicas 
of toy church steeples, held together by rusty nails, are 
strewn around the park’s entrance. The ceramic torso 


**Title: Resurrection**
**Author: Anna Ayres-Brown**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
of an animal, maybe a horse or a camel, rests on the 
site’s sloping terrain. An aged crucifix, which has since 
been removed from the property, used to lay horizon­
tally, marked with graffiti reading “God is dead.”
Chloe Ottman, like many of her peers, was intrigued 
by Holy Land’s seedy mystery. The abandoned park did 
not scare her. Ottman’s father, Derek, told me that his 
daughter had a passion for the underdog and a nev­
er-ceasing urge to cheer people up. Friends of Chloe’s 
tenderly recall the lengths to which she would go to 
make them smile, trying goofy faces and sometimes even 
using her hands to force the corners of her classmates’ 
mouths upward. Curiosity spurred her to leave her house 
by 7:30 a.m. some weekends to explore Waterbury, the 
city where she grew up. She would later describe these 
daylong outings with her friends in lengthy Facebook 
posts, calling them “Epic Adventures.” 
On July 15, 2010, Ottman, who was sixteen at the 
time, agreed to join a friend of her boyfriend, whom 
she had met at several parties, Francisco Cruz, Jr., at 
Holy Land as part of an “Epic Adventure” he planned 
for her. Ottman and Cruz sat at the base of the crucifix, 
chatting and sipping Joose, a caffeinated malt drink. 
Soon after they sat down, Cruz made sexual advances 
toward Ottman, which she rebuffed. Cruz attempted to 
grope Ottman. She elbowed him in the face, knocking 
his glasses to the ground. Cruz became enraged. He 
strangled Ottman and raped her. Unsure if she was still 
alive, Cruz stabbed her several times and left her body 
in a nearby wooded area.
The next day, Ottman’s family reported her missing; 
Cruz confessed to the crime two days later. He initially 
pled guilty but later withdrew his plea. Facing the pos­
sibility of going to trial, Chloe’s mother wanted to push 
for the death penalty but her father feared the lengthy 
trial that it would entail. Cruz finally agreed to plea 
guilty again if the rape charge was dropped. Ottman’s 
father reluctantly agreed, admitting that it was “fucked 
up.” Cruz is now serving fifty-five years in state prison.
Following the murder, the Religious Teachers of 
Filippini vacated the property and moved to Morris­
town, New Jersey. As Derek Ottman remembers, the 
organization was unresponsive to his inquiries about 
Holy Land’s future. What were their plans for the 
property? What were they going to do about the blood-
stained concrete? Could they build a fence to keep 
future trespassers out? The nuns said they would have 
to confer with the heads of the religious order in Rome. 
They never got back to him. (The provincial supervisor 
of Holy Land at that time of his attempts has since died, 
according to Sister Ascenza of the order, who spoke to 
me over the phone from Morristown.) 
Although Derek Ottman does not blame the religious 
order for his daughter’s murder, he admits that some 
resentment lingered for a while. Pagano, on the other 
hand, adamantly insists that the crime was not a prod­
uct of Holy Land itself or its managers. He attributes the 
death to circumstance. He told me, “Holy Land hap­
pened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time.”


--- Page 35 ---
NOVEMBER 2016
 35
who owns a car dealership. As O’Leary recalls, “I called 
him up and said, ‘What are you doing right now?’ And 
he said, ‘I just came off the golf course.’ And I said, 
‘Come up to Holy Land.’”
O’Leary says that the idea for Holy Land’s resurrec­
tion didn’t come as an epiphany, but rather a gradual 
realization. When he had campaigned for mayor ear­
lier in 2011, he made a point to visit Waterbury’s retire­
ment homes. Across the board, seniors’ biggest request 
was to illuminate the cross once more. Once elected, 
he called the realtor of the Holy Land property and 
learned that the nuns, who still owned it, were asking 
for $750,000 for the 17.7 acres (city records indicate 
the property is worth roughly $1.24 million). Knowing 
that he could never fundraise this sum, the new mayor 
let the idea go. Three years later, however, O’Leary and 
Blasius decided to jointly purchase Holy Land using 
money that they would fundraise on their own.
Holy Land’s restoration (and Mayor O’Leary’s leader­
ship of the movement) has not received any significant 
opposition. Still, an elected official’s advocacy for a reli­
gious site intuitively raises some red flags. Discussing 
Holy Land’s recent history in his office, Mayor O’Leary 
cuts himself off mid-sentence. “I’ve got to make sure 
you understand only one thing so far: this has nothing 
to do with the city of Waterbury. I’m the mayor, but this 
was not done with me being a representative of the city, 
because that would be a big problem with separation of 
church and state.” I nod. He pauses, leans heavily into 
his chair, and dives back into the story.
After some negotiating, O’Leary and Blasius con­
vinced the nuns to listen to their pitch. The day of 
their meeting, the men awoke early and drove to Mor­
ristown, New Jersey. The meeting began sharply at 10 
a.m. There was no small talk—O’Leary sat with a cup 
of coffee in one hand and a Danish in the other, he 
says, waiting for the women to speak. 
In the meeting, O’Leary and Blasius explained their 
motivation for buying the property, promising that they 
would never change it into a hotel or let the land be 
mined. By the end of the day, the nuns agreed to sell the 
listing for $350,000. As part of the deal, the land deed 
required that the property always remain Holy Land.
Three years later, at Holy Land’s second annual ban­
quet at La Bella Vista Banquet Hall, Jennifer Carroll, a 
senior at Holy Cross Catholic High School, concludes 
her speech. “I realize that God does not just let bad 
things happen in our world. He gave us free will, which 
makes any outcome possible,” she projects slowly into 
the microphone. She and Katerina Valenti are the 2016 
winners of Holy Land’s high school essay competition, 
for which students write personal statements about 
what Holy Land means to them. The young women 
stand by the podium as Rebecca Calabrese awards 
them one thousand dollars each to help fund their col­
lege educations.
Near the center of the ballroom, Joe Pisani sits with 
ten talkative family members and friends at a table 
marked “Pisani Steel.” To this crowd, his name alone is 
enough to stir approving murmurs. In 2013, soon after 
the purchase of Holy Land, Pisani agreed to construct 
a new lighted steel cross, entirely free of charge. His 
company was determined to build a crucifix larger than 
any of its predecessors. The project required roughly 
$300,000 worth of material.
On Friday, December 20, 2013, a crane erected 
the cross on Pine Hill, where it now sits on a hundred 
square foot base. The cross was illuminated for the first 
time in years, just in time for Christmas. Ten thou­
sand Waterbury residents, Catholics and non-Catho­
lics alike, came to watch the lighting ceremony. Even 
Waterbury’s Albanian Muslim community was in atten­
dance. Some Waterbury residents say that traffic came 
to a halt on I-84 that day; regardless of their religious 
affiliation, people were leaning out their windows to try 
to catch a better look. Holy Land—they could finally 
see—was not lost.


--- Page 36 ---
 36
Derek Ottman was not included in planning for 
the cross-raising ceremony and I wasn’t able to get in 
touch with Chloe’s mother for this piece. (The two 
are now divorced.) Mayor O’Leary initially told me 
that Ottman’s parents were in attendance, but he later 
retracted this claim, saying that he only heard of their 
presence second-hand through a police officer. The 
Mayor acknowledges the role of Ottman’s death in the 
restoration process. “I think that it inspired a lot of peo­
ple to step forward,” he says. She seems to serve as an 
unspoken martyr for the movement. Neither of the two 
Holy Land writing competition winners mention her 
in their essays, and her name goes entirely unspoken at 
the annual banquet.
After the cross began to shine again in 2013, the resto­
ration movement continued to pick up steam. They’ve 
received donations from more than 4,500 individuals 
in the past two years. At this year’s banquet, they’ve set 
a goal of raising eighty thousand dollars to cover the 
material cost of constructing a new Holy Land sign. 
Mayor O’Leary grabs the microphone and calls on the 
attendees to make monetary pledges. They auction 
off the letters from the old sign for five thousand dol­
lars each. (O’Leary revealed before the banquet that 
he pre-sold three of the letters.) After the letters are 
auctioned, people raise their hands to pledge smaller 
amounts. O’Leary publically thanks each individual 
by name, congratulating several donors on their recent 
retirements or upcoming marriages.
“Lot of Irish names here tonight!” O’Leary remarks. 
One of the men at the Pisani table promptly raises his 
hand to place a bid. O’Leary squints before recognizing 
his friend from across the room. “I knew if I challenged 
these Italian guys they’d step it up.”
Between dinner courses, two priests in clerical collars 
examine tickets to a Yankees/Red Sox game at the silent 
auction. A group of Sacred Hearth High School students 
huddle around a table selling limited-edition Holy Land 
Timex watches. A Waterbury-based cover band takes the 
stage. Mickey, the group’s bassist, leans into the micro­
phone. “We love Holy Land. We actually do.”
The absence of Chloe Ottman’s parents goes unmen­
tioned. The two have maintained a low-profile since 
their tragedy. Derek Ottman made a GoFundMe page 
last year, hoping to raise $25,000 to return to school 
to become a writer (he has raised $678 as of this writ­
ing). On his fundraising page, he states that he’s on a 
mission from God, writing that he’s trying to shake his 
former life plans: “I’ve given up the stifling but ‘sure 
thing’ path my risk-averse-father-of-a-murdered-teen­
ager brain wants.” Before Chloe’s death, a leaky roof 
damaged the family’s house, taking down an entire wall 
in her room. Derek wasn’t able to fix it before she died. 
More than five years later, the house repairs are still 
incomplete. “The weight of unfinished business is part 
of the brain feeling sorry for itself,” he explains. Derek 
writes that after trauma, he initially found messiness to 
be comforting. Five years later though, he knows it’s 
time to move forward, for himself and for Chloe, who 
he believes would want for people to relate to each 
other even when circumstances are difficult. He’s not 
focusing on Holy Land as a path forward anymore.
Long after dark, the silent auction winners are 
announced and the banquet’s attendees slowly trickle 
out of La Bella Vista. Mickey packs up his bass and 
the Holy Land vision boards are taken down from the 
entrance. The parking lot is illuminated as a hundred 
cars turn on their headlights and migrate toward the 
venue’s winding exit. Volunteers will be on-site at Holy 
Land by 11am tomorrow to continue restoration work, 
but until then, the cross stands alone on Pine Hill, hov­
ering above the old manufacturing town.
Far below the cross, Chloe Monique Ottman’s grave 
reads, “We love you… forever.” Six years following her 
death though, her memory remains more prevalent in 
some people’s minds than others’. Holy Land has risen 
from tragedy, but the role of Ottman’s murder in the 
process of restoration continues to be dubious. Maybe 
forgetting violence in order to overcome it is produc­
tive, a way of honoring her. On the other hand, the 
potential to take advantage of trauma in order to moti­
vate the redemption of a space is ethically challeng­
ing. The Bible assures followers that challenges can be 
overcome; Isaiah promises redemptive glory for the fol­
lowers of the Lord: “Violence shall no more be heard 
in your land, devastation or destruction within your 
borders; you shall call your walls Salvation, and your 
gates Praise” (Isaiah 60:18). But the role of memory is 
ambiguous. Maybe we serve ourselves best by moving 
on, but what do we lose in disremembering trauma? If 
you turn your head as you leave Waterbury on I-84, you 
can catch a glimpse of the glowing cross one last time, 
its LED lighting glowing on the horizon.  
— Anna Ayres-Brown is a sophomore 
in Saybrook College.



**Title: DISPATCHES FROM THE TOAD’S BATHROOM**
**Author: Charlie Bardey**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Situated beneath a dance floor coated in liquor and pher­
omones, the Toad’s men’s bathroom lacks the sterility of 
other men’s bathrooms on campus. I’ve only spent a few 
moments in there, and whether by chemical aid or brute 
force alone, I’ve successfully repressed most of them.


The access I have to the Toad’s men’s bathroom 
because I’m cis-ish and have a dick (score!) is a privi­
lege that I must wield responsibly. And so, on Novem­
ber 2, I descend into the bathroom corridor in the 
basement, pass the dapper, human-size, pork-pie-hat-
sporting toad encased in glass in a nook in the wall, and 
enter the men’s bathroom, where I will stand, in a stall, 
listening, for the next hour (with occasional breaks on 
the dance floor).


The bathroom is not as repulsive as it could be. It 
has three stalls, two of which lock, and six urinals. 
There are no dividers between the urinals. As most 
men’s room frequenters know, this profoundly alters 
the psychic terrain. Dividers offer privacy and lessen 
the intense homophobia that arises at the occasion of 
male genital proximity. Without them, adjacent urinals 
become fraught with this tension. Only the foolhardy 
stand at adjacent urinals without dividers. 


I know that simply scrolling through my phone 
by the sinks will not be an option—people will get 
suspicious, and in a space like the Toad’s bathroom, 
I want a door between the straight boys and me. So I 
stand in a stall—one of the two not glazed in urine—
facing the toilet. I am a full head taller than the door, 
so I know that people can see the back of my head, 
which feels awkward but is a necessary price to pay for 
investigative journalism.


Gaze is particularly dangerous in all male spaces, as 
it carries the potential of erotic desire, so occupying 
a men’s bathroom usually entails blinkering oneself, 
though normally not for the length of time I will spend 
at Toad’s. I resign myself to staring at the tiles in front 
of me, as so many men have done before, and get to 
listening. I hold my phone to the side so that it doesn’t 
fall in the toilet. I am fortunate to have a terrible sense 
of smell. 
11:48 pm: I hear a spraying sound. I am unsure of the 
source—it sounds like Axe, maybe, or another brand 
of spray-on deodorant. I don’t smell anything, though, 
except the faint aroma of urine—very curious. I recall the 
existence of lethal odorless sprayable chemicals, though I 
can’t name any, and hope that I will be okay.


11:52 pm: Two boys walk in. One boy says to the other, 
walking towards a stall: “I would not wipe the seat to take 
a fucking shit here. Are you taking a shit dude?” I panic, 
thinking he’s talking to me, but he’s not. He’s talking to 
his friend in the stall next to me, who isn’t taking a shit, 
but is peeing, like I’m pretending to be doing. I think 
about how friendship heightens the awkwardness of using 
adjacent urinals, as there is the expectation of continued 
conversation as you urinate side by side. 
11:55 pm: “She’s winning gold medals, I’m sitting here 
drinking my ass off.” One boy yells to his friend. They 
don’t seem that close.  “You’re getting too dark for the 
Toad’s bathroom, dude.” They change topics, and leave.


11:57 pm: I hear the spraying sound again. I realize it’s the 
sound of the faucet. I feel relief that I won’t perish in this 
bathroom stall, but also note that I’ve heard the sound of 
the faucet many fewer times than I’ve heard the sound 
of flushing.


12:01 am: Two boys exchange ‘sups.’ “This is the fourth 
time I’ve been down here. Pretty copious.” As someone 
who pees a lot, I feel a kinship. They begin talking about 
how much they’re sweating. “I should have worn my Yale 
cheerleading tank,” one says. “Why has my birthday hat 
not gotten any females?” the other laments. I no longer 
feel any kinship. 
12:05 am: After four minutes of silence, I begin to feel 
deeply silly, and I leave the bathroom to take a dancing 
break upstairs. Self-care is important. 
12:17 am: Someone walks in talking about not receiving a 
Snapchat from a girl. “Bitch,” he says. 


12:20 am: Two boys walk in and go to separate urinals. 
“Can you see my dick?” “No.” “Good.” There are three 
urinals separating them. 


12:22 am: Someone is vomiting in the stall next to me and 
I feel grateful that at least my knees don’t have to touch 
the floor. 


12:27 am: “I’m completely blacked out. But I’m having a 
good night.” “Cool!” I whisper to myself.  


12:29 am: “Lip Gloss” is playing, and the boy in the stall 
next to me is loudly singing along, but he doesn’t know 
any of the words. I am angry.


12:34 am: “Do you ever do this? Put paper on your dick 
when you pee?” shouts one boy from the stall next to 
me to his friends, drunkenly. “I don’t do that,” his friend 
responds. The boy defends himself: “Because you don’t 
want your underwear to be sticky!” “You don’t even have a 
girlfriend.” “I’m always prepared.”


12:37 am: Sometimes I hear boys come down and use 
neither the urinal nor the stalls. When I cautiously turn 
my head just enough to see into the bathroom over the 
top of the stall door, I see boys looking at themselves in 
the mirror, or at their phone, simply needing some space 
from the occasionally overwhelming party upstairs. See­
ing these boys in their quiet vulnerability gives me some 
of my few moments of warmth. 


12:46 am: Two boys walk in. “Are they actually dating 
now? Are they for sure dating?” one of them asks. “I don’t 
even think she’s that hot,” his friend reassures him. They 
high-five, I think. 


12:48 am: At the hour mark of my entrance, I decide that 
I’ve spent enough time in the bathroom, and turn to 
depart. When I do so, I accidentally make eye contact 
with someone at a urinal. It is a genuinely uncomfortable 
moment. I wash my hands and leave. 
— Charlie Bardey is a senior 
in Silliman College.


**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 40
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
AmbAssAdor  
João VAle de AlmeidA
head of the delegation of the european  
union to the united nations
lecture
Wednesday
November 30, 2016
4:30 pm
Burke Auditorium 
Kroon Hall 
195 Prospect Street 
New Haven, CT
Doors open for 
seating at 4:10 pm
Free and open to the public. No tickets are required. For questions, please email chubb.fellowship@yale.edu or call 203.464.2755.  
Supported by Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies.
The talk will also be live streamed.  
Go the www.chubbfellowship.org for further instructions the day of the talk.
the chubb fellowship · timothy dwight college · yale university 

