Publication date: SEP 2019
Volume: 52
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: Laura Glesby, Max Graham
- executive editor: Elliot Wailoo
- senior editors: Lily Moore-Eissenberg
- associate editors: Hailey Andrews, Beasie Goddu, Alejandra Larriva-Latt, Sara Luzuriaga, Helena Lyng-Olsen, Jack McCordick, Eli Mennerick, Trish Viveros, Candice Wang
- copy editors: Jisoo Choi, Elena DeBre, Matthew Kleiner, Yonatan Greenberg, Nicole Jefferson, Sofia Laguarda
- creative director: Chase Westover
- design editors: Meher Hans, Zihao Lin, Sam Oldshue, Alex Rivkin
- photo editors: Vivek Suri
- web designer: Philippe Chlenski


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- POINTS OF DEPARTURE—Mara Hoplamazian, Abby Steckel
- SNAPSHOT: THE SIMULATION INVITATION—Elena DeBre
- SNAPSHOT: AT HISTORY’S HELM—Helena Lyng-Olsen
- CRITICAL ANGLE: THE RESEARCHER’S RESPONSIBILITY—Katherine Hu
- COMING HOME CONVICTED—Keerthana Annamaneni
- FEATURE: UNGUARDED—Lily Moore-Eissenberg
- POEM: SICK POEM—Ananya Kumar-Banerjee
- ENDNOTE: FAREWELL, SHIRU CAFE—Jack McCordick


**Title: Coming Home Convicted**
**Author: Keerthana Annamaneni**
**Page number(s): 28**

Stefon Morant served twenty-one years for a crime he
didn’t commit. Now he’s home—but still fighting to clear his
name.


**Title: Unguarded**
**Author: Lily Moore-Eissenberg**
**Page number(s): 23**

For adults with developmental disabilities or mental
illnesses, conservatorship can be lifelong—and
life-shattering.


**Title: The Cafe at the Corner**
**Author: Mara Hoplamazian**
**Page number(s): 4**

[This content is missing from the provided text]


**Title: In Step with Tradition**
**Author: Abby Steckel**



**Title: The Simulation Invitation**
**Author: Elena DeBre**
**Page number(s): 10**

Yale’s virtual reality lab seeks to make high tech accessible.


**Title: At History’s Helm**
**Author: Helena Lyng-Olsen**
**Page number(s): 14**

A replica of the Amistad slave ship sets sail on the Long Island Sound.


**Title: The Researcher’s Responsibility**
**Author: Katherine Hu**
**Page number(s): 18**

A Yale professor collected DNA that helped China persecute its Uighur population. Should he
be held accountable?


**Title: Sick Poem**
**Author: Ananya Kumar-Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 22**



**Title: Farewell, Shiru Cafe**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 34**




**Title: THE CAFE AT THE CORNER**
**Author: MARA HOPLAMAZIAN**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“You come here not to be hidden, but to be safe,” Daniel Eugene says, gazing out the window of his Westville studio, as the last dregs of sun wash in. Though we’re not at Partners Cafe, he speaks about the gay bar, which has been a New Haven landmark for four decades, as if it is all around us. Daniel’s space is decorated with photographs of the Partners façade. An artist and a New Havener, Daniel has been going to Partners, located at the corner of Crown and Park, nearly every week since he was old enough to enter. 


Now, fourteen years later, when I ask him how he feels about the bar, he coos, “I love it.”

The men who bartend at Partners love it too. When I spoke with Paul, who has been working at the bar for the last eight years, he couldn’t keep a smile off his face. As I walked in, I saw what Daniel meant about safety. The front door is set into a concrete wall, interrupted only by narrow glass-block windows. One Yelp reviewer compared the bar to a bomb shelter. Daniel said the peculiar architecture served a historical purpose—when the bar first opened in 1974, the safety of queer spaces depended on their anonymity. Today, Partners remains understated on the outside, a reflection of the confidentiality that many queer people still rely on. Inside, it’s animated by soft velvet and dark wood. The gold ceiling washes patrons in a warm flush. 


Paul, a young man as burly as he is sweet, thinks that for most Yale undergrads, Partners is the first gay bar they’ve been to. “You can just tell—some of them are from small towns; they’re 21; they’re just learning how to order a drink,” he reflected, smiling. 


The same nostalgic grin graced the faces of Sam and Dustin, two undergrads who frequent the bar, when I asked them about their first time there. “I had never been to a gay bar,” Dustin remembered. “I didn’t feel like I knew how to be that kind of gay, as in, be comfortable enough being gay to dance and kiss someone on a dance floor. I didn’t know it was so normalized.” 


Sam remembers exactly what they ordered on their first night at Partners—Rolling Rock, in a bottle. “It was bear night,” they giggled. “It felt super queer.” They drew out the word “queer,” as if to mirror the distinctly open atmosphere at Partners that distinguished it from other gay bars. That night, Sam was inspired to bring the comfort they felt at the bar into the rest of their life. “I went to the bathroom to text my roommate—to come out to him,” they recalled. 


But while Yale undergrads are learning how to order drinks, older patrons toast to Partners’ history. Another long-time bartender, Anthony, first visited Partners five years ago when he was 21, in the closet, and didn’t know how to order anything but a Midori Sour. He now opens on Thursdays, and said that the community of older patrons creates a “gay Cheers energy”—a reference to the eighties sitcom set in a bar with a theme song called “Where Everybody Knows Your Name.”


Being in an intergenerational space changed the way Anthony understood the queer community. “I’ve learned so many things just talking to people from different generations, asking them things about their lives,” he reflected. “People come in and tell me how they met here, how they fell in love, how the door used to be that way,” he said, gesturing towards the far corner of the bar. 


Older patrons’ memories of how the AIDS crisis affected Partners have a particular resonance for Anthony. “This place was full—and then, gone,” he recalled, snapping his fingers. The movement to create an organization to fight AIDS in New Haven began in the Partners basement. This year, that organization, AIDS Project New Haven, celebrates its thirty-fifth anniversary. 


Though older patrons have memories to share, the interactions between Yale undergrads and New Haven locals are usually limited to a nod upon walking in the door. While bartending, Paul has observed that the bar’s vibes are split by the staircase and by affiliation—Yalies dancing upstairs, and New Haven residents sitting around the downstairs bar. On the first floor, Partners looks a bit like a sports bar, with too many television sets to count and a Simpsons pinball machine in one corner. Up the staircase, there’s a stage, two neon paintings of hunky men in promiscuous positions, and the space where a stripper pole once was—a memory passed down through generations of Partners lore. 


On a Wednesday evening, the upstairs stage is full of undergrads affiliated with student groups or frats that have rented out the place to party away from Yale. “We’re judgement free,” Paul said. The safety that Partners provides for patrons doesn’t end with the queer community; when a Yale men’s sports team threw its formal underneath the disco ball, Paul remembered, the athletes took off their shirts and hogged the AUX as much as students from the co-op. The bartenders don’t worry about straight patronage taking away from a culture of queerness. They welcome straight customers into the space on their own queer terms. 


Anthony is pleased that Partners provides a place for undergrads to feel safe much as it has for generations of New Haveners. But, he said, the dynamic is strained by some of the more entitled Yalies, who have yet to learn the practice of tipping. “It’s important for Yale to understand that New Haven local places and the people who work there are trying to make a living. They’re not a commodity of the University,” he reflected. 


Anthony grinned as his first customers of the night glided in. They were a group of coworkers on a bonding night out, and it was their first time at Partners. Soon they were laughing with Anthony, trying to buy him a drink. A couple of men in their late thirties walked in later, whom he greeted together, and then each separately, asking them about their days. The conversations swelled together, filling the room. Before I left, I asked Anthony what he wanted for the bar going forward. “What I hope this place does,” he said, smiling, “is that it lasts.”


“Sam was inspired to bring the comfort they felt at the bar into the rest of their life.”


**Title: IN STEP WITH TRADITION**
**Page number(s): 6**

“Lean into it,” he said. “It’s supposed to feel like a washing machine.”


My dance partner was at least fifty years my senior. He had hunched shoulders and smiled through wrinkled cheeks, but his weathered appearance belied surprising vigor.


Following his advice, I tilted backwards into a forceful spin.


About fifty people had crowded onto the dance floor. A live band called Fifer’s Delight supplied cheerful jigs. Many women wore dresses or long skirts, while men sported various shades of casual attire, including one standout pair of bright green shorts. On this summer evening, the New Haven Country Dancers were hosting their monthly contra dance. 


I paid the five-dollar student fee and made a name tag before joining the two lines of beginners for the opening lesson. At the direction of the dance caller, I wheeled around in a contra swing with the dancer across the aisle. When the caller ordered a “left hand star,” I clasped my neighbor’s left wrist, and we formed a circle with another couple. Then we repeated the sequence with accordion and fiddle accompaniment.  


A folk tradition with roots in England, Scotland, and France, contra primarily involves walking steps, which makes it welcoming to novices like myself. It’s also easy on replacement knees; two of eight regular dances in Connecticut take place at senior centers.


After joining the New Haven Country Dancers in 2013 at age 24, Catherine McGuinness revamped the group’s website and helped with recruitment efforts. McGuinness is also an advocate for gender-free dancing. Instead of saying “gents and ladies,” some callers are transitioning to “larks and ravens” to challenge traditional gender roles and make contra more welcoming to LGBTQ people. Lark starts with the same letter as “left,” where the lead dancer stands, and “raven” for “right.” At the New Haven dance I attended, the caller used the gendered terms but mentioned that anyone could lead or follow. 


Gender-free dancing has sparked lengthy debate in the “Stuff Contra Dancers Say” Facebook group, which has over 2,500 members across the country. Some commenters feel inconvenienced by learning new terms. Others believe the change is a symptom of excessive political correctness. And some even requested that callers issue a warning about the use of gender-neutral language ahead of dances. As one Facebook group member euphemistically put it, the new lingo might attract “colorful people.” McGuinness advised opponents of the new language to “just dance with whoever is coming at you.” David Lindsay, a bespectacled sixty-something-year-old who founded the New Haven Country Dancers in 1976, took a more conservative stance. He said he’s fine with people dancing their preferred part, but the lead remains the traditional man’s role. 


A self-described folklorist, Lindsay was introduced to contra as a teenager at Pinewoods Camp, which teaches traditional European dance and music in the woods of Plymouth, Massachusetts. Lindsay still attends local dances but no longer has a formal role in the volunteer-run New Haven group. 


Lindsay’s penchant for European dance extends beyond contra. He founded the New Haven Morris and Sword Team in 1977. Based on my Googling, Morris dancing appears to involve mostly older white men wearing ankle bells and performing synchronized skipping steps, while sword dancing concentrates on earnest stick combat. Mid-conversation, Lindsay jumped up to demonstrate an aerobic step, keys jangling as he hopped and kicked in the public library.  


Not all dancers share Lindsay’s reverence for tradition, but most seem to agree on the importance of community to contra dance. The




**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Abby Steckel**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2019
 7
New Haven Country Dancers share snacks and 
conversation after the first hour and a half of do-si-
do-ing, and some gather at a diner after the dance. 
According to Gaffney, many contra groups have 
a similar format. “If you go somewhere where 
there’s a contra dance, you’re going to be able to 
walk in and feel at home,” he said. 

The contra community is tight-knit. It’s also 
mostly white. Some contra dancers say the 
welcoming vibes don’t extend to people of 
color. One Facebook post asked, “Why is contra 
dancing predominately [sic] Caucasian?” Over 
four hundred commenters interrogated the lack 
of diversity, suggested responses, gave examples 
of microaggressions, and contested the examples. 
One dancer from a North Carolina group said 
their group was “very diverse.” A second dancer 
from the same group called it “very white.” A 
third dancer offered, “As an actual, real-life contra 
dancer of color… I can tell you all that walking 
into a space that’s noticeably, overwhelmingly 
white can feel unwelcoming and off-putting.” 

McGuinness wants the New Haven group to 
be more diverse, but she is nervous about making 
people of color feel uncomfortable or singled 
out for their race. “It’s something I’ve struggled 
with,” she said. “My understanding is that because 
[contra] tends to be quite white, a person of color 
comes, feels out of place, and doesn’t come back.” 

Lindsay, on the other hand, doesn’t think dancers 
should feel accountable for contra’s homogeneity. 
“Civil rights is way beyond the scope of trying 
to create an Anglo-American-based folk dance 
tradition in a community that’s a melting pot,” 
he said. Lindsay described contra dancers as both 
“community-oriented” and “a little bit tribal,” and 
seemed to ignore the conflicting connotation. 

Contra’s Facebook commenters continue debating 
what level of racial diversity should be expected 
of a tradition that has historically been connected 
with white European culture. 

From the mid-nineties until late 2016, the 
New Haven Country Dancers didn’t actually 
meet in New Haven, and instead danced at a 
community center in the predominantly white 
suburb of Branford, where they moved after 
several members’ cars were broken into. Now the 
group rents the Friends Meetinghouse on a tree-
lined street in New Haven’s Fair Haven Heights 
neighborhood. Bordered by the Quinnipiac River, 
the meetinghouse seems separate from the rest 
of New Haven. But onto the dance floor come 
questions that resonate throughout and beyond 
the Elm City, questions about how communities 
are constructed, and to what extent they require 
change. 

– Abby Steckel is a sophomore in 
Benjamin Franklin College.
Illustration by Zihao Lin


**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 8**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
WRITE WITH US:
Neela Banerjee ‘86
Emily Bazelon ‘93
James Bennet ‘88
Eric Boodman ‘15
Julia Calagiovanni ‘15
Jay Carney ‘87
Richard Conniff ‘73
Ruth Conniff ‘90
Elisha Cooper ‘93
Jackie Cooperman ‘95
Andy Court ‘83
Susan Dominus ‘92
Max Ehrenfreund ‘12
Dana Goodyear ‘98
Paul Goldberger ‘72
David Greenberg ‘90
Anya Kamenetz ‘02
Tina Kelley ‘85
Ava Kofman ‘14 
Elizabeth Kolbert ‘83
Benjamin Mueller ‘14
Sophia Nyugen ‘14
Julia Preston ‘73
Noah Remnick ‘15
Hampton Sides ‘84
Gabriel Snyder ‘98
Aliyya Swaby ‘13
John Swansburg ‘00
Ike Swetlitz ‘15
Jada Yuan ‘00
Daniel Yergin ‘68
contact editors@thenewjournalatyale.com
REPORT, WRITE, DESIGN, PHOTOGRAPH, ILLUSTRATE!
InsideClimateNews
Slate & The New York Times Magazine
Editorial Page Editor, The New York Times
STAT, the digital newsroom covering health & medicine
editorial fellow at The Atlantic
former White House Press Secretary
National Geographic & The New York Times
The Progressive
author of children’s books
Wall Street Journal
60 Minutes
The New York Times Magazine
The Washington Post
The New Yorker
Vanity Fair editor at large
author and journalism professor
NPR
The New York Times & Covenant House
former editor-in-chief of The New Inquiry
The New York Times
Harvard Magazine
author and journalist
Editor-in-Chief of The New Republic
The Texas Tribune
deputy editor of Slate
STAT
Pulitzer Prize-winning author



**Page number(s): 9**

 9
APRIL 2019
Choral EvEnsong
Yale Schola Cantorum
David Hill, conductor
Works by Judith Bingham, Tallis, and 
others
Friday, September 20 · 5:30 PM
Christ Church (84 Broadway at Elm)
Mozart: rEquiEM
Sunday, October 13 · 4 PM
Woolsey Hall
Walk through thE 
vallEy
Yale Camerata
Marguerite L. Brooks, conductor
Works by Hogan, Olson, O’Regan, and 
more
Sunday, October 27 · 4 PM
Battell Chapel
tElEMann:  
Day of JuDgment
Juilliard415
Masaaki Suzuki, conductor
Friday, November 1 · 7:30 PM
Trinity Lutheran Church  
(292 Orange St.)
Preconcert talk at 6:30
Whitney Humanities Center Audi-
torium
BErnarda Fink, soprano
Anthony Spiri, piano
Friday, November 8 · 7:30 PM
Sprague Memorial Hall
Tickets at music.yale.edu
Presented with Yale School of Music
Choral and Vocal Music
Guest artists perform on the 
Newberry Memorial Organ in 
roBErt quinnEy
Works by Bach, Mendelssohn, and 
Dupré
Sunday, September 15 · 7:30 PM
raChEl laurin
Works by Buxtehude, Franck, Brahms, 
and Laurin
Sunday, November 24 · 7:30 PM
Great Organ Music at Yale
pádraig Ó tuaMa
Set My Tongue on Fire: Exploring 
the Language and Forms of Poetry 
and Prayer
Thursday, November 7 · 5:30 PM
Miller Hall (406 Prospect St.)
Exhibition
Yale Literature & Spirituality Series
in Miller Hall 
406 Prospect St.
Defiant SpiritS: 
fernanDo Brito’S 
Sinaloa
Award-winning Mexican 
photographer captures the 
resilience of Sinaloa culture in the 
midst of the criminalized state
September–December 13
Weekdays 9–4 (except holidays)
yalE 
institutE 
oF saCrEd 
MusiC 
EvEnts
All events free; no tickets 
required except where noted.
ism.yale.edu



**Title: SNAPSHOT: ELENA DEBRE**
**Author: Elena Debre**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
S N A P S H O T
ELENA DEBRE
THE SIMULATION
Yale’s virtual reality lab seeks to make high 
tech accessible. 
I
t’s midnight in Times Square, and I can’t 
believe I’m here. Well, I do believe it. Taxis 
and black cars whiz by, dodging pedestrians. 
My pulse races as I merge into the nightlife of this 
city I love. Even though I’m due at my Yale lab in 
30 minutes, I feel a kind of subversive relief amid 
the late-night revelers as they shuffle past, some 
holding hands, others clutching shopping bags 
from luxury stores. The flashes of tourists’ cameras 
blur into neon advertisements illuminating the 
block. 

Suddenly, I’m jolted by a pedestrian’s iPhone 
ring. But that’s impossible: this virtual reality (VR) 
is designed to be soundless. I take off my headset. 
Back at Yale’s Center for Collaborative Arts 
and Media, known as the CCAM, Justin Berry 
scrambles to switch off an alarm on his phone. 
It’s a Saturday in late July, and Berry, a critic at 
the Yale School of Art, has nonetheless come into 
the office to talk with me about his work on VR and 
his pet project, the Blended Reality Collective. 
Launched at Yale during the summer of 2016 
with a grant from software company Hewlett-
Packard (HP), this project aims to facilitate 
students’ explorations of immersive technology. 
This includes both augmented reality (AR), which 
digitally alters or enhances the real world—like 
Pokémon Go; and VR, a computer-generated 
auditory and visual experience—like mine in 
Times Square—that makes a user feel present in 
an environment other than his or her actual one. 
Although we experience VR through an electronic 
headset, our bodies respond as if the simulations 
are real. In stressful ones, our hearts race. We feel 
afraid. Our brains can’t tell the difference. 

Members of Blended Reality consider Berry 
among immersive technology royalty. But when 
I sat with him in his office at the CCAM, I was 
relieved to find he wasn’t godly or intimidating. 
He wore a black baseball cap that he flipped 
backwards when putting on a VR headset. He had 
just stepped off a plane but didn’t seem jet-lagged; 
throughout our interview, he jumped to his feet to 
act out a point or shifted into a theatrical voice to 
emphasize an idea. 

Although it’s his second year leading Blended 
Reality, Berry doesn’t have a background in 
coding. “My master’s is actually in painting—
that’s how non-technical it goes,” he laughed. As 
we talked about his work at the intersection of art 
and technology, I commented on the beautiful 
photograph of a waterfall hanging on his wall, and 
he informed me that it was a still he’d taken from 
the background of a war game. “One of the things 
I’m really interested in is: what does it mean to 
look at something the way you aren’t supposed to 
look at it? What do you see when you look at a 
virtual world the same way you look at the real 
world—with the same critical lens?”

When I asked Berry for a tour of the facilities, I 
didn’t expect to end up in Times Square. The spell 
Illustrations by Chase Westover and 
Sam Oldshue
INVITATION


--- Page 11 ---

SEPTEMBER 2019
 11
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
of my disembodied experience in New York quickly 
subsided, though, and I wasn’t too disappointed 
to be brought back to reality. The wood-paneled, 
recently-remodeled CCAM is stacked with a large 
motion capture studio, VR suites that anyone can 
reserve, and cubbies with cameras and headsets 
spilling out of them.

Any Yale student can walk into Berry’s office 
at the CCAM and use this technology to make 
projects, like nursing school student Travis 
McCann’s 
medical 
training 
simulation 
or 
junior Noah Shapiro’s fantastical zoo—home to 
dancing bears and flying horses. Undergraduates, 
graduate students, and faculty, from fields as 
diverse as Nursing and Near Eastern Studies, 
have participated since the collective’s beginning. 
Teams receive an HP laptop, attend sporadic 
meetings and workshops, and present at two 
campus-wide showcases throughout the year. 
Groups also travel to HP’s headquarters in Palo 
Alto to present their creations.

This level of undergraduate involvement is 
unprecedented. For example, at Stanford, the 
premier VR developer, experts work on the 
technology behind closed doors. VR equipment 
rarely touches student hands. 

Yet, for all its democratic aspirations, Berry’s 
collective remains a relatively untapped resource 
here at Yale. Berry hopes more students will 
walk in, pitch projects, and join the program. 
His mission is to popularize immersive media 
technology like VR and to move it beyond geeks 
and gamers.              

Shapiro, the director of the Blended Reality 
collective’s undergraduate contingent, known as 
Yale Students in Immersive Media, first heard 
about the CCAM and its open doors when a close 
friend recommended that he check out the space 
last year. 
“I’m one of the luckiest people,” Shapiro 
gushed. “Like I think anyone else would, I just fell 
in love with it. It’s one of the coolest things.”  The 
excitement in his voice made me feel as if he was 
letting me in on one of Yale’s biggest secrets.   

The merit of VR is clear: it enables responsible 
users to see perspectives that would otherwise 
be inaccessible to them. The technology was 
famously called “the empathy machine” in a TED 
Talk by artist Chris Milk. In other words, even 


--- Page 12 ---

 12
digitally-inspired human emotions and sensations 
affect the real world. 

A VR experience on the Syrian refugee crisis, 
“Clouds Over Sidra,” helped accrue over a billion 
dollars in donations to the cause. After a pro-life 
lawmaker experienced Planned Parenthood’s VR 
simulation “Across the Line,” which simulates 
wading through a raucous crowd of anti-abortion 
activists outside an abortion clinic, he expressed 
anger over the struggles of women attempting to 
visit the reproductive health care provider in hostile 
territory. Following her immersion in a virtual 
solitary confinement experience, CNN producer 
Cathy Hackl said the “humanity switch” in her 
was flipped on. “I felt like I was actually walking in 
someone else’s shoes,” she said in a recent article 
by the online publication Narratively.

But if VR ends up in the wrong hands, it can 
be exploited to a harmful end. A violent VR 
experience can cause real trauma in the user, 
studies show. Technological philosophers Michael 
Madary and Thomas K. Metzinger wrote in a 2016 
paper in Robotics and A.I. journal, “Torture in a 
virtual environment is still torture. The fact that 
one’s suffering occurs while one is immersed 
in a virtual environment does not mitigate the 
suffering itself.” VR impacts one’s psychology and 
behavior, and its effects can be felt even after the 
goggles are off.

Critics of VR worry, too, about how this 
immersive 
technology 
will 
transform 
our 
understanding of what is “real” and change our 
relationship with the world around us. If someone 



**Title: uses VR long enough, can it replace real life?**
**Author: Elena DeBre**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2019
 13
uses VR long enough, can it replace real life?
This idea was recently tested in an experiment 
described by Jeremy Bailenson, the founding 
director of Stanford’s Virtual Human Interaction 
Lab, in his book Experience on Demand. Bailenson 
writes of how a German psychologist conducted 
a study on himself in which he spent a full day 
and night in a virtual reality experience. Over the 
course of those twenty-four hours, he began to 
confuse the virtual reality experience for his actual 
reality.

Even so, Bailenson is not deeply concerned 
that computer-generated experiences will replace 
reality. He writes, “The most amazing moment 
in VR is the moment when you take the [head-
mounted display] off and are flooded with the 
full gamut of subtle sensory inputs that VR can’t 
capture—fine gradations of light, smells, the 
sensation of air moving on your skin…These are 
all sensations that are incredibly difficult, if not 
impossible, to effectively simulate in a virtual 
world. In a strange way, VR helps you to appreciate 
the real world more.” 

Still, many critics worry about the long-term 
social, mental, and physical effects of futuristic 
and dizzying head-trips to the Great Wall of China 
or the moons of Mars. In December 2017, the first 
VR-related death occurred. In Russia, a user was 
so immersed in VR that he forgot the physical 
layout of his room, fell through a glass table, and 
bled to death, according to Balienson’s research.

“There is no doubt that the concerns are real—
distraction, addiction, simulator sickness, privacy 
concerns, and unethical use cases,” Bailenson told 
me. The key, though, is “to be transparent about 
these concerns now, and to design VR platforms, 
hardware, and policy norms to ensure the medium 
thrives while minimizing the downsides.”

When I put on the headset at CCAM, the white-
walled computer classroom transformed into New 
York City’s bright and colorful midnight in Times 
Square. I am not surprised that VR users say they 
become so immersed in the experience they forget 
their body remains in the physical world. 

VR’s immense and still evolving power, many 
experts warn, demands that users and creators 
wield the technology carefully.                                                                                    
– Elena DeBre is a 
sophomore in Pierson College.
The creation of socially responsible VR content 
depends on who rules the virtual realm. This 
fundamental concern, says Berry, is at the root of 
his collective’s philosophy. Tech companies such 
as Facebook and Google are racing to develop the 
virtual field and reap its financial rewards, perhaps 
leaving social and ethical obligations behind.  
 “If we leave it up to industry, no one cares,” 
Berry said. “I think the goal is to get the people that 
care about this stuff to ask difficult questions, to 
consider it a moral issue, a social issue, a cultural 
issue.” 

While acknowledging the ambiguous ethical 
questions of virtual reality—and its potential 
dangers—Berry defended his lab’s democratic 
approach. He said the collective creates a low-stakes 
environment for experimentation with emerging 
media and opens the otherwise exclusive field of 
blended reality to a diversity of perspectives.

“The most powerful piece of technology we 
actually have is just our open doors,” he added, 
letting out a burst of laughter as he scanned the 
lab’s expensive, state-of-the-art equipment.

A blended reality utopia? Perhaps. It remains to 
be seen whether this technology has the power to 
withstand the worst of us. Meanwhile, I’m open to 
immersing myself in our collective imagination. 


**Title: HELENA LYNG-OLSEN AT HISTORY’S HELM**
**Author: Helena Lyng-Olsen**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

--- Page 14 ---

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
S N A P S H O T
HELENA LYNG-OLSEN
AT HISTORY’S HELM
A replica of the Amistad slave ship sets sail 
on the Long Island Sound.
T
he enslaved people would have slept 
down here,” the shipmate told us, 
gesturing to the room. “They would 
have been among the barrels and other cargo on 
the ship. On the night of their mutiny, they crept 
onto the deck of the ship where the staff and crew 
members were sleeping.” 

Twelve small bunks with cloth curtains drawn 
across them lined the walls of the hold, alongside 
a mini kitchenette with a sink. The lighting was 
darker and the air cooler underneath the ship’s 
deck, where we could hear the murmurs and 
footsteps of the teachers and their families above, 
buzzing with excitement for the upcoming sail on 
the Long Island Sound. 

An hour ago, I had crossed the gangplank onto 
a fully functional replica of the Amistad, a two-
masted schooner that in 1839 was the scene of the 
rebellion of fifty-three enslaved Mende people. 
After successfully overtaking their captors aboard 
the ship, the Mende attempted to sail back to 
Sierra Leone. But their plan was thwarted by the 
Spanish navigators who stealthily turned the ship 
in the opposite direction at night. Two days later, 
the ship landed in the New Haven Harbor. Soon 
began what would be one of the first human rights 
cases to make it to the U.S. Supreme Court.

When the Amistad docked in New Haven 
in 1839, the courts did not know how to legally 
classify the Mende people on board. Should they 
be punished for their rebellion? Granted freedom? 
Sent home? On the one hand, the owners of the 
Amistad had engaged in illegal activity: the U.S. 
and Spain, where the ship was from, had already 
pledged to abolish the international slave trade. 
On the other hand, slavery itself was still legal 
in the U.S., and mutiny and murder were not; 
the Mende had killed two crewmates during the 
rebellion. The courts imprisoned all fifty-three of 
the Mende people, including their leader Sengbe 
Pieh, or “Cinqué,” in the New Haven jail for 
two years, until their trial finished. But the court 
proceedings, in which John Quincy Adams acted 
as the captors’ attorney, became a rallying cry for 
the national abolition movement. In 1841, the 
Supreme Court upheld a lower court ruling that 
the Mende had acted as free men and fought to 
escape illegal confinement. Thirty-five of them 
chose to return to Sierra Leone the next year.

Standing under the low ceilings of the ship 
hatch, I thought of a past when the walls were 
gone, the empty cavern filled with food, drink—
and people, living in inhumane conditions, torn 
from their loved ones and home country. But 
as the shipmate led us back up the hatch onto 
the deck above, we sailed past Lighthouse Point 
Beach, past the shoreline houses in East Haven, 
through blue waters below blue skies that faded to 
orange and pink. The ship’s shrouds stretched up 
to the sky with crewmates climbing up and down 
them, the white sail billowed,  and the “Amistad” 
pendant curved with the wind.  While the replica 
ship was meant to commemorate the original’s 
harrowing history, it is also meant to inspire a new 
generation of students to try to end the legacy of 
slavery and celebrate the teachers making this 
happen. The ship hearkens back into the past, but 
it also sails forward.

I had signed up for a New Haven public school 
teacher “sunset sail” organized by Discovering 
Amistad, the non-profit that now owns the replica 
ship. Built in 1999, the ship has a crew of between 
six and twelve people at any point and sails around 
the Long Island Sound, docking in New Haven, 
Bridgeport, and New London, among other towns 
on the Connecticut and Southern New York 
coastline.

Jason Hine, Discovering Amistad’s chief 
educator, enthusiastically greeted each teacher as 
they boarded the ship. Wearing a baseball cap and 
a Discovering Amistad polo, he stood near its bow 
during the sail, chatting with the teachers around 
him. He has told this ship’s story hundreds of 
times. Before joining Discovering Amistad, Hine 
served as a high school Social Studies teacher in 
nearby Lyme, Connecticut. Now, he organizes 
educational sessions about the Amistad in local 
schools, and he takes students out to sea.


--- Page 15 ---

 15
Aboard the replica ship, Hine and his crew 
show students how different parts of the ship tell 
different stories. At the helm, students can see 
the wheel that the Spanish crewmembers secretly 
turned towards New Haven at night. Students stop 
at the hatchway from which the Mende emerged 
on the night they took over the ship, and as they 
walk along the deck, they trace their hands on 
railings and structures similar to those from the 
original ship—made of lumber from Sierra Leone. 
Hine sees the ship as a chance not only to 
engage with the past, but also the present. 
“We are talking about the Amistad,” Hine 
told me, “and almost two hundred years later, 
we’re still wrestling with the same issues.” When 
Hine asks students how the story of the Amistad 
connects to the present, they connect the 
dehumanization of the enslaved Africans to “how 
Donald Trump talks about Mexicans or people 
from other countries” or the plight of the Mende 
to “Colin Kaepernick taking a knee in solidarity 
with Black Lives Matter.” Hine said that he hopes 
that students learn to become comfortable with 
having a conversation about race.

Hine isn’t the first person in New Haven’s 
recent history to find and celebrate the story of the 
Amistad. In 1986, Reverend Peter Ives was digging 
around the back of his Center Church on the 
Green when he found dusty pamphlets describing 
the history of the Amistad in a “very brief fashion.” 
Ives had lived in New Haven in his teenage years 
but knew nothing of the event.

“I began to investigate what this was, and I 
realized that no one in New Haven at that time 
had any idea what this was all about,” Ives told me 
over the phone. “The fact that for years and years 
this story had not been told and was not known 
was a real tragedy, that kids over almost a hundred 
years or so really didn’t know this story.”

That night, he called up the late Reverend 
Edward Edmonds, a prominent African-American 
minister from the United Church of Christ on 
Dixwell Avenue, and Al Marder, a New Haven 
activist for causes ranging from world peace 
to communism. The three decided to ask then-
Mayor Biagio DiLieto to appoint an Amistad 
Committee comprising one hundred reverends, 
scholars, and popular community figures, half 
of whom would be African-American and the 
other half white. After two years of preparation, 
the committee celebrated the 150th anniversary 
with months of lectures, banquets, dramatic 
readings, and youth marches, along with video, 
opera, and book productions, and an Amistad 
Choir. The centerpiece of the celebration was 
a commemorative statue that still stands today 
in front of City Hall, featuring Cinqué in three 
settings—his homeland (in Sierra Leone), the 
courtroom where the trial took place, and in New 
Haven after his freedom.

I first learned about Ives, Edmonds, and Marder’s 
efforts on a snowy March afternoon, sifting 
“The fact that for years 
and years this story had 
not been told and was 
not known was a real 
tragedy.”

Illustrations by Sam Oldshue



**Title: The Amistad's Legacy in New Haven**
**Author: Helena Lyng-Olsen**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
through boxes of Amistad Committee materials in 
the Whitney Library at the New Haven Museum. 
The library—full of local archival material—is 
snugly located in the back of the museum, at the 
end of a marble-floored hallway. I was the only 
person there, save Frances Skelton, the reference 
librarian, who helped me find the boxes in a back 
storage shelf. I was surrounded by pieces of New 
Haven’s history—genealogy books tracing back the 
oldest inhabitants of New Haven, yellowing maps 
of the city, centuries-old scrapbooks telling the 
story of a city of another time. As I paged through 
boxes of the Amistad Committee’s minutes, 
receipts, invoices, and typewritten letters, a 
narrative of its work over the years began to emerge. 
Here were the records of Marder’s efforts 
to do everything possible to 
bring the Amistad 
back into the public 
consciousness. “The original Amistad 
Committee of 1839 helped to shape the course of 
New Haven’s history,” he wrote in a letter to each 
member of the committee members on the eve 
of the opening ceremony that would kick of their 
yearlong effort. “We the Amistad Committee of 
1989 are also making history in our recognition 
of this event and providing a lasting tribute to its 
lessons.”


While Marder, Ives, and Edmonds led the 
struggle in the nineteen-eighties and -nineties, 
a younger contingent of New Haven history 
keepers have started a movement to help students 
remember all of America’s history, especially 
the stories that often go untold. Students for 
Educational Justice (S4EJ) is comprised of New 
Haven students, mostly high schoolers, who 
have successfully lobbied to include Black and 
Latinx history in all Connecticut public high 
school history curriculums with the passage of 
Connecticut House Bill 7052.


On an August afternoon, fifteen of S4EJ’s 
students sat in folding chairs arranged in a circle 
at the Institute Library. They quietly chatted 
among one another, until Chinedum Nnodum, 
the program director, asked the group: “Do you 
all know the story of the Amistad?” 
Solemn students shook their heads. In total, five 
out of the twelve students in attendance had heard 
about the Amistad. Anthony, a senior at Common 
Ground High School, said he had learned the story 
as a sophomore in a class on local history. Bryson, 
a senior at Cooperative Arts and Humanities High 
School, recalled that his grandfather told him a 
joke about the Amistad when he was twelve. But 
for most, the ship’s name didn’t ring any bells. 
“It’s very important you know the story,” 
Nnodum said. “Especially considering the work 
we are doing.” He explained that the people on 
board the Amistad were “enslaved people,” not 


---

SEPTEMBER 2019
 17
“slaves”—the latter suggesting that they were 
property or objects, not people. And he described 
how the event had complicated New Haveners’ 
perceptions of what it meant to be free or enslaved. 
“It helped shake entrenched racism in America 
and New Haven,” he said.


Briyana Mondesir, a member of S4EJ and a 
sophomore at Washington and Lee University, 
joined the group when she was a student at the 
Cooperative Arts and Humanities High School. 
“I felt so many times in school that the history 
we learned wasn’t history relevant to my life, or 
history essential for understanding identity in this 
space,” Mondesir told me at the meeting. “History 
can be really relevant if you can walk through it. 
So many stories of people of color took place right 
here in New Haven—it’s incredible.”


In 1999, the charter school network Achievement 
First opened the Amistad Academy Elementary 
School, Middle School, and High School in the 
Dwight and Newhallville neighborhoods of New 
Haven. The New Haven Museum now hosts a 
permanent exhibit featuring a large portrait of 
Cinqué, and Marder founded the Connecticut 
Freedom Trail, which marks 150 spots in 
Connecticut related to the abolitionist movement, 
including some recognizing the Amistad. 
But how many people who pass by these 
mentions of the Amistad remember the ship’s 
story? Walk around New Haven, and centuries of 
history surround you, from the names of streets 
and schools to lingering statues and monuments. 
These names have passed the test of time—but do 
we remember the stories and significance behind 
them? 


Every name that dots the city has its own story. 
It’s worth hearing the one that Marder, Ives, 
Edmonds, the students of S4EJ, and Hine and his 
crew have all worked to remember. 
“Walk around New Haven, 
and centuries of history 
surround you, from the 
names of streets and 
schools to lingering statues 
and monuments.”
– Helena Lyng-Olsen is a 
sophomore in Pierson College.



**Title: The Researcher’s Responsibility**
**Author: Katherine Hu**
**Page number(s): 18**

 18
I 
strain to pick up Abduweli Ayup’s voice 
over our WhatsApp call. A Uighur linguist, 
activist, and now refugee, he sketches a bleak 
outline of his detention in Chinese prison in 2013, 
after attempting to fund a new Uighur language 
school in Xinjiang. His descriptions are graphic: a 
yard full of detainees bombarded with explosives 
that induced vomiting and tears, the forced 
collection of DNA via blood and saliva.
“They don’t just have my fingerprints, they have 
my toe prints,” he mentions, chuckling.


Earlier this year, The New York Times revealed 
that Kenneth K. Kidd, Professor Emeritus 
of Genetics at the Yale School of Medicine, 
inadvertently 
aided 
Chinese 
authorities 
in 
surveilling Uighurs like Ayup. Li Caixia, the chief 
forensic physician at China’s principal police 
authority, spent eleven months at Kidd’s lab in 
2014, bringing DNA samples and expertise back 
to China. 


Kidd, whose work centers around forensics, 
maintains that he didn’t have concerns about 
working with Li Caixia. He frequently collaborates 
with law enforcement, and has helped push for 
the use of DNA in courts to exonerate the wrongly 
convicted. In an interview with NPR this July, 
he maintains that he did “nothing wrong” and 
shouldn’t be expected to know “everything that’s 
going to happen in the future.” 


But a closer look at Kidd puts his naiveté into 
serious question. This isn’t the first time he has 
been involved in a genomics project accused of 
racist motives. Kidd’s relationship with China 
is also ethically suspect; he has collaborated 
with scientists who misuse genetic research for 
nationalist purposes and received funding from 
Chinese governmental institutions.


Was Kidd truly unaware of the plight of Uighurs 
like Ayup, as he claims? Or did he put scientific 
achievement first, turning a blind eye to the 
agenda of the Chinese surveillance state? 
*
Kidd is no stranger to ethical controversy. In 
the 1990s, he was a key figure and project-planner 
for the Human Genome Diversity Project, or 
HGDP, an effort by the late Luca Cavalli-Sforza 
of Stanford to study genetic diversity by gathering 
DNA samples from all over the planet. The project 
never acquired enough funding, however, and was 
quickly mired in allegations of racism. Cavalli-
Sforza mentions Kidd’s involvement in the initial 
planning stages. Kidd would pen Cavalli-Sforza’s 
obituary in The American Journal of Human 
Genetics decades later.


The HGDP’s original focus was collecting DNA 
samples from indigenous people who, according 
to the project, were “in danger of dying out.” 
Cavalli-Sforza and his collaborators hoped to 
form a database that could help study migration 
histories, noting that isolated populations were 
best suited for this task. Indigenous activist 
groups such as the Indigenous Peoples’ Council 
on Biocolonialism struck back, pointing out that 
the scientists’ methods were exploitative. These 
groups argued that “theories of migration,” which 
Kidd studied, “[could] be used to challenge 
aboriginal territorial claims or rights to land.”


Jonathan Marks, a professor of anthropology at 
the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, was 
also an outspoken critic of the project during its 
heyday in the nineties. According to him, “The 
project was framed in the science of the nineteen-
sixties, which involved saying anything to get a 
syringe full of native blood and then buggering 
off with it, with full ownership of the ‘biological 
C R I T I C A L  A N G L E
KATHERINE HU
THE RESEARCHER’S 
RESPONSIBILITY
A Yale professor collected DNA that helped 
China persecute its Uighur population. Is 
the researcher responsible?
graphics courtesy of Sam 
Oldshue



**Title: The Uighur Genome**
**Author: Katherine Hu**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2019
 19
specimen’ and no obligation to the participant.”
Marks was an associate professor at Yale at the 
time. He spoke to Kidd privately about his many 
concerns regarding the project’s ethics, and 
recalled that “[Kidd] did not take criticism well.” 
Kidd allegedly forbade a graduate student of his 
from speaking to Marks, whom he believed to be 
“dangerous.” 
In hopes of salvaging the project, Kidd and the 
other members of the North American Regional 
Committee would co-author a 1997 paper outlining 
a proposed set of ethical standards. This paper 
urged researchers to “learn as much as possible” 
about the populations they were studying and 
mandated that they consult anthropologists before 
considering genetic sampling. In essence, it was 
a list of lessons learned, lessons that could’ve 
prevented the predicament Kidd is in today.

HGDP never made it off the ground. But 
that didn’t stop Kidd from reviving the project 
under a different name—ALFRED, or the Allele 
Frequency Database. Ken Weiss, a former leader 
of the HGDP, confirmed that the two projects 
are highly similar: both are free, public databases 
with DNA sequence results and genotypes from as 
many populations as possible.

ALFRED has been Kidd’s pet project since 
1999. Currently, it contains data on DNA samples 
from 2,942 Uighurs, most of which were collected 
in China over the last two decades. Two hundred 
and seventy five of the subjects are from Urumqi—
the same city where Ayup stood in a line with over 
a hundred detainees signing paperwork he would 
never read, potentially giving away the rights to 
his own DNA. 
*
According to Weiss, Kidd originally “put 
together ALFRED as a database of what was 
available.” But in the nineties, databases mostly 
contained European DNA, due to the Western 
focus of scientific research. This posed a problem, 
given that genomics research often requires data 
from a breadth of populations. 
 China’s return to the international stage via 
Deng Xiaoping’s 1978 policy of Reform and 
Opening Up came at an opportune time. China 
represents 20 percent of the world’s population. 
Access to these DNA samples, and cooperation 
with government gatekeepers was crucial for 
Western geneticists.

Since the nineties, the Chinese government 
has invested in large-scale genetic databases. Its  
YA L E 
C E N T E R 
F O R 
B R I T I S H 
A R T
**Title: SICK POEM**
**Author: ANANYA KUMAR-BANERJEE**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Wants you to go back to bed, there’s no point 
in doing homework now. You need your rest.
Mixes robitussin and theraflu,
Stinky, steaming teas, suggests you salt water gargle.
Even though there’s no proof that the savoury soup
Does anything, your mother passed it down to you,
Just like hers did. 
Makes chicken soup, from scratch,
In a stovetop cauldron filled with sweaty onions, and
Silvery brown potatoes, blood orange carrots, and
Black pepper.
Sick poem will brush your hair, and braid it,
Rub the joints on your fingers made weary
From all that typing. 
She’s looking out for you,
She promises. She’ll wake you up
If the world starts ending.
In the meantime, remember,
No milk, extra water,
Feed the cold, starve the fever.
Don’t forget about her, when you get better,
Remember how much work your body does for you,
You push it back and forth like the tides,
Expecting it to return to you.
She keeps trying to explain:
Some day, it won’t.
– Ananya Kumar-Banerjee is 
a junior in Berkeley college.
Illustration by Zihao Lin


**Title: UNGUARDED**
**Author: LILY MOORE-EISSENBERG**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

O
ne summer afternoon in 2012, in 
Wethersfield, Connecticut, a police 
dispatcher named Sharon Imbert had 
just finished cleaning her brother-in-law John 
Fritz’s kitchen when she discovered a receipt 
for a $2,000 money order tucked into a basket 
of apples. A gift from Sharon, the “snack basket” 
doubled as an in-house mail drop: whenever 
John, who has cerebral palsy, received paperwork 
he could not understand, he left it there for 
Sharon to find. “What’s this?” Sharon asked 
John, holding up the pink slip. “Oh,” he replied. 
“Michael told me I had too much money.” 
Sharon pressed for details, more confused 
than alarmed. For thirty years, an estates lawyer 
named Michael Schless had managed John’s 
finances as his court-appointed conservator. John 
told Sharon that Schless had called him on the 
phone the previous week. Apparently, Schless 
had instructed John to mail him a money order 
in the amount of $2,000; John’s savings account, 
he said, was “too full.” Schless wanted to transfer 
the excess funds into John’s checking account at 
TD Bank.
Along 
with 
cerebral 
palsy, 
John 
has 
co-occurring physical and intellectual disabilities 
that limit his ability to live independently. 
When his mother died, he moved from her 
home to a subsidized apartment, and the 
Imberts assembled a team of home health aides 
to help him with chores and personal hygiene. 
An eternal optimist, John is “the type of person 
that wears rose-colored glasses,” Sharon said. In 
reality, he wears boxy, wire-rimmed glasses that 
slightly enlarge his eyes; the sixty-nine-year-old’s 
feathery brown hair shows only a few streaks of 
gray. He loves to swim, and spends the better 
part of each year looking forward to his two-week 
stint at Camp Harkness, a summer camp for 
adults with disabilities, by a lake in Waterford. 
Under water, where gravity’s pull is weaker than 
on land, he can move his limbs freely, and they 
obey his commands.
By the summer of 2012, John’s inheritance, 
once worth $270,000, including a mortgage and 
interest-bearing accounts, had inexplicably run 
dry. Before his mother died, she had carefully 
secured a trust fund for him “so that John would 
never have to worry,” Sharon said. But then, 
several months before the pink slip appeared in 
the snack basket, Schless cancelled John’s home 
health aides for lack of funds. Sharon and her 
husband, Jim—a burly man with a buzz cut and 
the calm that comes from decades in federal law 
enforcement—started visiting John’s subsidized 
apartment daily to cook and clean. Almost 
overnight, it seemed, John went broke, and no 
one could explain how. 
The Imberts, with John’s approval, filed a 
request for a change of conservator in December 
2012. Jim replaced Schless, gaining access to his 
brother’s bank records. Over the next year, the 
Imberts spent their limited free time piecing 
together the paper trail that Schless had left in 
his wake. Each weekend, Sharon, who has close-
set blue eyes, a sturdy build, and a firm handle 
on common sense, rose early. She hauled out 
a cardboard box full of files and settled into a 
chair at her built-in kitchen desk. 
“Every day I worked on this, there was a 
discovery,” Sharon told me, perched beside Jim 
on the stoop of their modest summer home in 
Niantic, Connecticut. “And every day, it got 
more horrible.” 
*
Conservatorship is a legal arrangement designed 
to protect the country’s most vulnerable adults. 
Hailed as an alternative to institutionalization 
and even as a means of preventing homelessness, 
conservatorship transfers the authority of a disabled 
person to a trusted family member or attorney. The 
legal ground for establishing this relationship is a 
finding of “incapacity”: when a judge deems an 
adult incapable of managing their own affairs, for 
reasons of disability, age, or mental illness, the 
state may appoint a conservator to take over. 
Nationwide, court-appointed conservators and 
guardians—the terminology differs by state—help 
manage 1.3 million lives and at least $50 billion 
in assets. In Connecticut, conservatorship is 
housed in probate, a system of specialized courts 
descended from the Orphans’ Courts of the 
American colonies that handle a wide variety of 
cases involving children, seniors, and adults with 
mental illness or intellectual disabilities. From 
colonial times, Connecticut’s probate courts 
inherited a scattered system—before a recent 
restructuring, there were 123 of them—and the 
power to act as a benevolent parent to those in need 
of protection or care. Paul Knierim, Connecticut’s 
former probate administrator who left the post 
in late August, described the responsibilities of 
conservators as “truly awesome.” “We are asking 
them to take on the well-being of an individual 
who, by definition, is unable to manage his or her 
own finances and personal care,” he said. “That 
is so big a set of duties that no person can take it 
lightly.”
Yet Connecticut’s system and similar ones across 
the U.S., from Nevada to Florida, have proved 
ripe for exploitation. In Connecticut, as in many 
other states, there are no statutory requirements 
for becoming a conservator. The state’s probate 
courts do not conduct background checks, except 
on conservators serving indigent people, meaning 
anyone on public assistance or whose income is 
125 percent or less of the federal poverty level. 
Even for those cases, the vetting is cursory. Probate 
administrators check disciplinary histories, but “as 
long as they have a law license,” Knierim said, 
attorneys can sign up for as many conservatorships 
as they want, provided the local probate judge 
approves the caseload—and the growing demand 
for conservators incentivizes judges to do so. In 
theory, once approved, an exploitative conservator 
could move between districts unnoticed: there is 
no statewide record of conservators who have been 
removed from their conservatorships because of 
misconduct or malpractice.
According 
to 
the 
National 
Council 
on 
Disability, conservatorship “is often viewed as an 
issue impacting older Americans and not thought 
of as an important disability issue,” even though 
in at least eleven states, the legal procedure to 
impose a conservatorship on developmentally 
disabled adults is less rigorous than the equivalent 
procedure for the elderly. Some of those adults, 
like John, spend more than half of their lifetimes 
under conservatorship. When conservators abuse 
their power, the betrayal can be psychologically 
devastating 
and 
financially 
disastrous. 
Less 
calculably, the abuse of conservatorship erodes 
residents’ faith in the legal system. Last spring, 
after a Bristol attorney working as a conservator 
admitted to stealing more than $100,000 from her 
clients, presiding judge Vanessa Bryant called the 
public’s trust in the state “a silent victim.”        
A few weeks after Jim took over as John’s 
conservator, in 2012, the Imberts received a 
handwritten note from Schless, along with two 
bank checks and a Social Security statement. 
According to an affidavit, the checks, which 
constituted all of the money left in John’s name, 
totaled $10,473.87—just under four percent of the 
roughly $200,000 that Sharon calculated should 
have remained. 
Over the next few days, Sharon and Jim, police 
dispatcher and former federal agent, pursued 
leads. Jim requested copies of checks from the 
three banks where Schless had opened accounts 
for John. But he withdrew his request when he 
discovered that each copy would cost $1.50. The 
irony was not lost on him: John could no longer 
afford the records that would show where his 
money had gone. 
Sharon had better luck. At Wethersfield 
Housing Authority, the public housing agency that 
managed John’s subsidized apartment, she found 
ten years’ worth of records, including more than 
one thousand copies of checks. Back at her kitchen 
desk, Sharon leafed through the files. 
Auto insurance. That didn’t make sense: John 
couldn’t drive because of his physical disabilities. 
“Almost overnight, it 
seemed, John went 
broke, and no one 
could explain how.”



**Title: The Schless Mess**
**Author: Lily Moore-Eissenberg**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2019
 25
ATM withdrawals at Costco. Strange: John never 
used ATMs, and Schless didn’t buy him groceries. 
The Imberts did, and they didn’t shop at Costco. 
Florida Light and Power. John had never visited 
Florida. Wasn’t that where Schless, who was in his 
late seventies, moved after retiring from his legal 
practice? 
An AARP policy.
An online subscription to Fort Lauderdale’s 
Sun-Sentinel. Florida, again.
Three hundred and fifty dollars in overdraft fees. 
Another AARP policy. 
A withdrawal of $765, in Florida.    
In total, between 2009 and 2012, Schless had spent 
more than $10,400 using unauthorized checks. 
(The closeness of this amount, in stolen funds, to 
the amount of money left in John’s accounts was 
pure coincidence.) That didn’t explain the tens of 
thousands of missing dollars, but it was a start. 
To Sharon’s surprise, the records also showed 
deposits. Why would Schless put money back 
into the account from which he was stealing? She 
decided to cross-check the deposit records with 
other bank statements. 

As it turned out, withdrawals from John’s mutual 
fund account matched the deposits, to the cent. 
Schless had been using John’s checking account as 
his personal bank. When the account ran low, he 
withdrew money from John’s savings to replenish 
it. Sharon had finally solved the mystery of the 
pink slip in the snack basket: the records showed 
that shortly after Schless called John asking for a 
money order worth $2,000, he had deposited $2,000 
in John’s checking account at TD Bank. So the 
pattern went: Withdraw from the savings account, 
deposit in the checking account, withdraw from 
the checking account, and, presumably, spend. 
Schless proved remarkably consistent.
Within three weeks of the $2,000 deposit at 
TD Bank, the money was gone. Sharon said, “He 
siphoned it all out.” 

As baby-boomers age and the number of mental 
health cases requiring conservators multiplies—in 
Connecticut, it has risen by more than fifty percent 
since 2012—so has the financial incentive for 
attorneys, or “public conservators,” to build larger 
caseloads. In 2016, then-probate administrator Paul 
Knierim created the designation “high-volume 
conservator,” also known as “contract conservator,” 
to provide a flat monthly rate of $86 per client to 
attorneys juggling more than forty conservatorships 
at a time. (Probate conducts criminal background 
checks on contract conservators.) “You can 
make a decent living if you mass-produce it,” 
John Keyes, who served as New Haven’s probate 
judge for thirty-two years before retiring in 2017, 
said of conservatorship. “It’s like selling enough 
hamburgers.”

I recently asked a pair of social workers about 
the on-the-ground effects of ballooning caseloads. 
Toshema Brooks and Nanteza Cohen work at 
New Haven’s Columbus House, a non-profit 
service provider for people experiencing or 
nearing homelessness. They described a pattern of 
disrespect, absenteeism, tardiness in paying bills, 
and outright verbal abuse by some conservators 
toward their clients. The two social workers said 
they witnessed one conservator call Brooks’ 
client—a middle-aged man who struggles with 
untreated mental illness, depression, and substance 
abuse—“lazy” and “stupid” when the four of them 
met in the conservator’s office. Brooks recalled the 
conservator saying to her client, “I know you’re a 
drunk. Are you fucking retarded?” 

On the road back to New Haven after the 
meeting, Brooks pulled the car over to calm her 
client. He was sobbing, she said, and he threatened 
to kill himself. 
“Do we need to call 911?” she asked him. He shook 
his head. “We’ll get you another conservator,” she 
assured him. “We’ll report him.” 

In April 2018, I listened to Brooks tell New 
Haven’s probate judge about the incident in court; 
he immediately agreed to remove the conservator. 
But removals do not ordinarily enter a conservator’s 
disciplinary record, and the probate court keeps no 
master list of them—a “hole in the system,” Keyes 
said. As a result, the conservator in question—who, 
according to Brooks and Cohen, often complains 
about his large caseload—will continue to manage 
the affairs of Connecticut’s most vulnerable. 

The Imberts’ second question, after they 
discovered where John’s money had gone, was how 
Schless had kept his theft a secret. As they recall 
events, when they first told Newington Probate 
Judge Robert Randich about the missing money, 
he brushed them off, saying that he didn’t believe 
Schless would have stolen from John. (Randich 
declined to comment on his interactions with the 
family because probate judges are not allowed to 
talk about specific cases.) 

The Imberts hired a forensic accountant and 
returned to Newington’s probate court the next 


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
month. This time, Randich agreed that funds 
were missing from 2010, 2011, and 2012, but he 
declined to investigate earlier years, according to 
an affidavit. He ordered Schless to return about 
$36,000, but probate judges lack power to enforce 
their orders, so Schless never did. Randich chose 
not to refer the case to a state’s attorney, an option 
available to probate judges when they suspect a 
crime has taken place. 

“The system, as it’s set up, is highly dependent 
on the honesty of the people that serve within it,” 
Randich told me. He stressed how difficult it can 
be to detect fraud in a conservator’s accounting 
“when the numbers balance.” 

Sharon, however, maintains that anyone paying 
attention to John’s case would have noticed the 
signs. John’s bank records showed about $10,000 
in annual losses from one of his long-term savings 
accounts. By the time she met with Randich, 
she had spent “gross amounts” of time combing 
through bank records and compiling evidence 
to persuade the judge to take a second look at 
Schless’ accounting, only to find him powerless to 
enforce the law and unwilling to enlist someone 
who could. Sharon’s faith in probate evaporated as 
quickly as John’s savings.

As a last resort, the Imberts’ lawyer contacted a 
reporter at the Hartford Courant. When an article 
detailing his plight appeared in the Sunday paper, 
the Imberts’ phone began to ring. Among the 
many concerned callers was Brian Prelenski, a 
state’s attorney.  

Over the next year, with the help of a police 
detective, a forensic accountant, the Courant 
reporter, and Prelenski, the Imberts found that 
Schless had stolen at least $60,000, and possibly 
more than $100,000—a large enough sum to 
merit a criminal allegation of larceny in the first 
degree. Prelenski served Schless an extraditable 
arrest warrant mandating his speedy return to 
Newington, Connecticut. One early morning in 
December 2015, three years after he was removed 
as John’s conservator, Schless caught a flight 
to Connecticut from Boynton Beach, Florida. 
Around 5:30 a.m., he turned himself in at the 
Newington police station.   

On March 18, 2016, in New Britain Superior 
Court, Schless pleaded “no contest” to first-degree 
larceny, a felony. He was convicted of stealing 
$47,746 from John, the amount that fell within the 
statute of limitations. At age 78, Schless received 
a ten-year suspended sentence and no jail time, 
on account of his age. In court, John read from a 
prepared victim statement. 
“In the past, I trusted people, and trusted lawyers 
and the courts,” he said. “Now I don’t trust people 
anymore.”

After John’s story made headlines in the 
state capital, Connecticut’s legislature passed a 
law mandating random audits of conservators’ 
accounting. But piecemeal reform, including a 
law establishing conservators’ duty to intervene 
in their clients’ lives as little as possible, has 
historically failed to change conservator conduct, 
partly because probate judges have little power to 
enforce the law, and partly because many of them 
work part-time, limiting their ability to conduct 
rigorous checks. Yale Sterling law professor John 
Langbein, a longtime critic of Connecticut’s 
probate courts, believes conservatorship should be 
exported altogether from the probate system, which 
he characterized in an interview as inefficient and 
“corrupt.” Sandra Sherlock-White, an elder law 
attorney who served on a work group to revise 
Connecticut’s conservatorship statute following a 
high-profile case in 2014, told me she has noticed a 
“disconnect” between the letter of the law—which 
she helped to craft—and the reality on the ground. 
“When conservators abuse 
their power, the betrayal 
can be psychologically 
devastating and financially 
disastrous.”


--- Page 27 ---

 27
“The trouble is more in the practice. That’s where 
the rubber doesn’t meet the road,” she said. “There 
are still violations at times.” 

Former probate administrator Paul Knierim 
attributes those violations to “human frailties”; 
others, like Langbein, Brooks, Cohen, and Sharon, 
blame them on a frail system. And when the system 
fails, not everyone has dedicated relatives who 
are willing and able to invest hundreds of hours 
tracing the financial history of a rogue conservator. 

On her front porch, Sharon, wiping away angry 
tears, said of probate, “I don’t even want to say it’s 
a system. It’s a rubber stamp.”  

When John and I spoke on the phone, he 
was looking forward to his upcoming stint at 
Camp Harkness, the camp for disabled adults in 
Waterford. Sharon, Jim, and I sat on the front 
stoop of their home in Niantic and talked to John 
on speaker phone. He’d be heading to camp soon. 
What was he most excited to do? “See my friends,” 
he said ponderously. Then, he remembered the 
lake. “And swim!” 

Later, I asked him how he felt about Schless. 
“At first, he was O.K. But it made me upset, what 
he did,” John said.  
“Hey, skipper,” Sharon said gently. “Do you 
remember what you told the judge you wanted 
Michael to do?”
“Oh,” John replied, pausing. Schless had 
exploited him impersonally, via bank transactions 
and from a distance; now, John wanted Schless 
to witness the vulnerabilities he had exploited 
firsthand, perhaps through community service that 
could actually help others with John’s disability. 
“I wanted him to work with somebody who has 
cerebral palsy,” John said. But the judge declined 
to issue an order. “Candidly,” she said of Schless, 
“I don’t trust him.”  

As the investigation unfolded, the third, and 
most difficult, question the Imberts faced was how 
to explain the situation to John. He had trouble 
understanding Schless’s part in the changes to his 
life and his body. “He can’t conceive of anybody 
hurting another person,” Sharon told me. In 
2012, the Imberts footed the hefty bill for camp, 
but they knew they couldn’t afford to keep paying 
long-term. Meanwhile, John’s teeth had started to 
rot. Without home health aides, he often failed 
to brush them properly, and his age and physical 
disabilities made him more vulnerable to dental 
decay. Sharon said, “It was a process of telling 
him, ‘You’re losing your teeth because, you may 
not go to camp because.” 

Though John recovered about $60,000 in stolen 
funds between the criminal case and a civil suit, 
the Imberts say Schless stole tens of thousands of 
dollars more. They worry that the recovered money 
won’t cover the care John will need as he ages. In 
the year after the trial alone, he attended weekly 
therapy sessions to manage his psychological 
trauma. In the absence of his home health aides, 
his dentist pulled all of his lower teeth. 
Jim, in a Harley Davidson t-shirt, listened as John 
spoke over the phone. “We’re asking about the 
Schless Mess, skipper,” Jim reminded his brother 
when John struggled to understand a question. 
With John, the Imberts try to strike a light tone. In 
private, however, their mood darkens. Jim believes 
conservatorship is “a broken system,” and he holds 
the State of Connecticut responsible. Sharon 
counts the endangerment of John’s stay at Camp 
Harkness as one of Schless’s cruelest offenses. And 
whenever she sees John, his lower dentures remind 
her of the cost of Schless’s conservatorship.
“John doesn’t need a laugh, doesn’t spend,” 
Sharon said. “If he has what he needs, he’s happy.” 
– Lily Moore-Eissenberg is a 
senior in Saybrook College.



**Title: COMING HOME CONVICTED**
**Author: KEERTHANA ANNAMANENI**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Stefon Morant wears his heart on his 
sleeve. When I ask him to tell me about the 
people that matter most to him, he points 
at the tattoos covering his arms.
“They’re here.”
His left bicep loudly announces “Kimberly 
Forever,” after his wife, Kimberly Morant. Her 
name is enveloped by a fallen cross and a bed of 
red roses, a nod to their Christian faith.
Stefon’s right bicep bares his oldest tattoo: 
“MOM,” it declares in faded cursive. The design, 
a black heart, surrounded by a wreath of leaves, is 
simple and reminds him of a simpler time. “I don’t 
know where I would be without my mom,” he tells 
me. His children’s names are tattooed on his chest. 
He has seven—Twyla, Stefon, Julien, Christian, 
Mia, Jaala, and Prince.
His brothers Frank and Lee are his best friends, 
and his right forearm is covered by a portrait of 
Julian Morant, his youngest brother. In the tattoo, 
Julian wears a bow tie and tuxedo, and Stefon 
points at his arm, beaming. The tattoo is fading—
Stefon has had it for one year now—but I can make 
out a subtle facial rash on Julian’s tattooed portrait 
and drooping eyes, signs of Lupus. Julian died 
from Lupus in 2014, just months before Stefon was 
released from prison after serving twenty-one years 
for a crime he did not commit.

On June 17, 2015, Stefon Morant returned home 
from prison after accepting a deal from prosecutors 
which slashed his seventy-year sentence to twenty-
five years. While the deal allowed him to come 
home immediately, it also failed to exonerate him 
of his charges and limited his avenues for redress. 
An FBI investigation revealed that Morant and 
his co-defendant were wrongfully convicted, and 
the New Haven State’s Attorney acknowledged 
in court that Morant’s conviction rested on false 
testimony from the State’s key witness. Yet Morant 
is still a registered felon.
Morant is far from alone. High-profile wrongful 
conviction cases across the United States have 
involved deals enabling wrongfully convicted 
individuals to return home without being 
exonerated. Although no studies have tracked 
the prevalence of such deals, in September of 
2017, ProPublica investigated ten cases in the last 
nineteen years in which defendants across the 
country who had significant evidence pointing 
to their innocence chose to plead guilty in order 
to reduce their sentences. For these individuals, 
re-entering society with a criminal record comes 
with financial, social, and emotional barriers. 
Four years after his homecoming, Morant 
continues to face challenges related to his felony 
conviction. Still, he stands by his choice to accept 
the deal.
“I missed my family. I needed to come home,” 
he said. “I didn’t want to be in a cage.”


In 1994, Detective Vincent Raucci Jr., a corrupt 
detective on the payroll of a New Haven drug 
kingpin, was investigating the 1990 murder of 
former New Haven alderman Ricardo Turner and 
his partner. Morant’s good friend, Scott Lewis, 
owed Raucci $10,000 in a cocaine-related debt, 
and when Lewis could not pay, Raucci began 
collecting evidence to frame Lewis for the murder. 
According to a 1997 FBI investigation of Lewis and 
Morant’s convictions, Raucci coerced vulnerable 
witnesses to make his case. His star witness was Ovil 
Ruiz, a teenager with a history of schizophrenia 
and a criminal record. 
When Raucci attempted to pressure Morant 
into testifying against Lewis, he refused. In return, 
the detective sought revenge: he framed Morant 
for driving Lewis to the murder scene, a felony 
under Connecticut law. After a three-month trial, 
the jury found Morant and Lewis guilty of two 
counts of felony murder and two counts of murder, 
respectively.

A few days later, Morant returned to court to 
receive his sentence. 
“Mr. Morant, what do you have to say?” asked 
the presiding judge, according to court transcripts.
“I don’t understand why am I being convicted of 
a crime I didn’t commit…I didn’t commit a crime. 
I never committed a crime. I never hurt nobody in 
my life. I’m innocent your Honor. I leave it with 
that.”
To the judge, Morant’s words rang hollow.
 “If you sat on this jury and you listened to this 
case,” the judge stated to Morant’s family and a 
packed courtroom, “you would have found that 
man guilty of these crimes. He was convicted 
because he is guilty. He committed these crimes.” 
With that, Morant was sentenced to seventy years 
in prison. 
For the next twenty-one years, Stefon Morant 
maintained his innocence from behind bars. He 
remained hopeful: in 2014, Lewis won his freedom 
after a Connecticut state judge agreed that he 
had been unconstitutionally incarcerated. Led by 
Yale Law School professor Brett Dignam, Lewis’ 
legal team of nearly fifty Yale and Columbia law 
students had presented new evidence, including 
an FBI investigation that showed Detective 
Raucci’s involvement with the drug trade and 
his willingness to threaten key witnesses. Over 
the course of six years, the law students threw 
themselves into Lewis’ case, driving all across 
the tristate area to assemble Lewis’ record and, 
ultimately, win his freedom.

But Morant didn’t have fifty law students backing 
him. While Lewis’s team spent years assembling 
records, working with private investigators, and 
conducting interviews with people who had known 
Detective Raucci, Morant was represented by one 
solo practitioner who barely communicated with 
him, filed no pleadings, and devoted fewer than 
twenty hours to working with Morant over the 
course of two years.

On June 9, 2015, a corrections officer walked 
by and slipped Morant a pass for the visitation 
room. He stepped out of the cell doors and walked 
through two sets of metal detectors into the large 
visitation room.
Morant’s attorney was waiting to speak with him. 
“The state has a deal for you,” he remembers 
his attorney saying. “You could be out next week, 
if you want.” As a result of Lewis’s victory, state 
prosecutors had approached Morant’s attorney 
with a rare deal. They were willing to reduce 
Morant’s seventy-year sentence to the lowest 
possible sentence allowed in Connecticut for a 
felony: twenty-five years, minus four years because 
of Morant’s good behavior. And he had already 
served twenty-one years. 
If Morant took the deal, he could be home 
immediately.

But there was a catch. If he took this deal and 
returned home, which attorneys call a “time 
served” deal, Morant would not be exonerated. He 
would not receive compensation from the state of 
Connecticut, be issued an apology from his city, 
or have a clean record. The world could still view 
him as a felon.

If Morant refused the deal, he would have to 
argue his case in court, just as Lewis had. But the 
odds weren’t in his favor. Although Lewis had won 
his case, Morant was not guaranteed the same 
verdict. Morant’s attorney advised him not to risk 
court proceedings, citing the years of litigation 
ahead. He told Morant that all of that legal work 
could take him a year or more. Coupled with the 
justice system’s slow-moving bureaucracy, even if 
Morant were to win his case on appeal, he would 
risk being incarcerated for two or more additional 
years.

Morant, who had missed watching his children 
grow up and had learned that his little brother 
and his father had passed away by word of mouth, 
wanted to go home. He wanted to hold Kim, his 
childhood sweetheart who visited him every week, 
and his sons in his arms without being scolded by 
corrections officers. He wanted to do mundane 
things, like go fishing on the weekend, cook steaks 
in his backyard, or wear a belt. In twenty-one years 
of incarceration, Stefon was never once allowed 
to wear a belt. “I didn’t feel like a man, without a 
belt,” he later told me. “Imagine what that’s like.”

On June 17, 2015, Stefon Morant took the deal. 
He would no longer be able to file a civil suit for 
compensation or clear his name. But he was ready 
to come home.
“I had no understanding” of the legal 
consequences, he said. “I just wanted out of that 
cage.”

The very same day, Kim rushed from New Haven 
to Cheshire, Connecticut, to pick him up. Just as 
she arrived, Morant realized he had no clothes 
other than his orange jumpsuit, so he asked a few 
corrections officers to let him borrow some jeans 
and a t-shirt. The borrowed clothes were too big 
for Morant. Without a belt, he pulled up his pants 
as best he could, ran out the doors of Cheshire, 
and jumped into Kim’s Jeep wrangler.
 “Start driving!” he remembers yelling, and Kim 
hit the gas. 
 “You didn’t even hug me,” he remembers Kim 
saying.
“I’ll hug you when we get the hell out of here. 
It’s not real until then.”
“So, did you end up hugging her?” I ask, four 
years later, in a café in downtown New Haven. 
Morant chuckles, and takes a bite of his salmon 
sandwich.
“I hugged her after she bought me that belt,” he 
said. “That’s when it felt real.”


“I see these cases all the time,” Darcy McGraw, 
director of the Connecticut Innocence Project 
told me. “People want to go home, and the justice 
system hasn’t been fair to them in the past. Why 
would they want to take the risk?”  
Some wrongfully convicted people, like Morant, 
accept a “time served” deal. Others choose to 
accept an Alford plea, a loophole that allows 
defendants to insist that they are innocent in 
court records, while still legally pleading guilty to 
receive shorter sentences. Both legal mechanisms 
operate similarly. Want to go home? Take the deal.

Some like to imagine that “time served” deals 
and Alford pleas are a win-win. Prosecutors 
maintain a successful record, while innocent 
people are guaranteed shorter sentences rather 
than rolling the dice with a criminal justice system 
that has already failed them. And because these 
individuals cannot sue the state in civil court 
for wrongful incarceration, the state can avoid 
expensive lawsuits, some of which end in million-
dollar settlements.

But these deals can have serious consequences. 
They leave wrongfully convicted people with 
criminal records, which can limit people’s access 
to public assistance: three states still ban felons 
from accessing Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program benefits. In thirteen states, having a 
record can strip a person of their voting rights. 
But McGraw told me that the most serious burden 
involves employment. “In every one of these cases 
that I’ve seen, people just want to find a job,” she 
said, “and it’s harder to get hired when you have 
that record.”

When Morant got home, he spent two days with 
his family before feeling restless. He had gotten 
used to his regimented day at Cheshire: his days 
used to begin at 7 a.m. with breakfast. He would 
then go to work (he made license plates from 8 
a.m. to 2 p.m.), the gym, dinner, his Bible study 
courses, and finally, bed. Now that he was home, 
he needed something to do.

He paid a visit to New Haven Works, a nonprofit 
downtown that helped him assemble a resume. 
Over the next two months, Morant applied to over 
fifty jobs. After weeks, the letters started coming 
in. The supervisor at Amazon’s Connecticut 
manufacturing plant wanted to know why Morant 
had not disclosed his felony on the application. 
“But the question on the application asked, 
‘Have you ever been incarcerated for a crime you 
committed?’” he explains to me. “I didn’t lie. I 
wasn’t [in prison] because I committed a crime. I 
was there because they were holding me captive. 
I was in a cage.” Morant didn’t get the job at the 
manufacturing plant. And by the end of the year, he 
had been denied trucking, sweeping, landscaping, 
and construction jobs. 
Finally—in early 2016—Morant got an offer for 
a refuse collector position, a stable job working for




**Title: The Pardon**
**Author: Keerthana Annamaneni**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2019
 31
the City of New Haven. For three weeks, he showed 
up on time to every shift, was polite, and collected 
trash as efficiently as he could. “I actually started 
to enjoy it,” he said. “It paid really well.”
But by the end of the month, his supervisor 
told him he was letting him go. “The job was just 
a temporary position,” Morant remembers the 
supervisor explaining. But Morant thinks that his 
background check had raised a red flag.
The 
unemployment 
rate 
for 
formerly 
incarcerated people is five times higher than the 
general rate, according to a 2018 Prison Policy 
Initiative study. Ninety percent of United States 
employers use online criminal record reports 
before hiring for some, if not all, positions. Studies 
show that employers who do learn of applicants’ 
criminal histories tend to discriminate against 
them.
“When an employer finds out you have a 
criminal record, he’s likely going to hire someone 
else if he can,” McGraw told me. Morant had first 
written to McGraw ten years ago, and they’ve been 
in touch ever since. Once he got out and struggled 
to find employment, she wrote a letter for future 
employers, explaining his unique circumstances. 
It didn’t always work.
In a job interview at the Children’s Center in 
Hamden, Morant supplied the letter and began 
explaining his story. After skimming the letter for a 
few seconds, the center’s director cut him off and 
apologized.
“There’s got to be more to your story. You got 
convicted,” Morant remembers the director saying. 
He didn’t get the job.

The classic mechanism for overturning unlawful 
imprisonment is filing a petition for the writ of 
habeas corpus, claiming the state is unlawfully 
holding, imprisoning, or detaining someone. 
When these petitions are effective, incarcerated 
individuals are brought to trial to determine if the 
court made a legal or factual error in ordering an 
individual’s detention. 
In rare cases, these petitions succeed. Scott 
Lewis won his exoneration through habeas 
corpus litigation. But a habeas corpus action 
isn’t possible for Morant anymore, since he is 
no longer incarcerated. “In order to file habeas 
corpus petitions, the state must have your body,” 
Ken Rosenthal, Morant’s current attorney, told 
me, referring to the phrase’s Latin roots. 
McGraw and Rosenthal both say that Morant 
has just one avenue left: a pardon. Typically, 
political executives—presidents, governors, or 
pardon boards—can issue pardons to convicted 
criminals. For people who have shown remorse 
for their actions, who face lengthy time in jail 
for a low-level crime or who were wrongfully 
convicted, pardons can be a powerful last resort. 
In Connecticut, pardons erase convictions from 
criminal records, giving back crucial civil rights to 
those convicted, wrongfully or not. 
Rosenthal, Morant’s seasoned New Haven 
criminal defense attorney (“Ken’s my angel,” 
Morant tells me), tries to remain optimistic, 
but recognizes that a pardon based on claims 
of innocence will be difficult to achieve. “It’s 
simply never been done before in Connecticut,” 
Rosenthal tells me from his ground-floor office in 
New Haven. “I’m not saying we can’t do it; we can. 
If anyone can, Stef can.”
 Morant and Rosenthal meet once a week to work 
on the pardon petition, which will be submitted 
soon. The average turn around rate for pardon 
petitions is one year, so Morant believes that by 
this time next year, he’ll have an answer.
Morant and Rosenthal hope the pardon process 
will work out. But for the people whom the 
pardon process has failed, the consequences can 
be devastating.


In 1985, Chris Conover, a Maryland native, 
had been wrongfully convicted of two murders. 
But DNA evidence acquired by the Innocence 
Project in 2001 pointed to different suspects, 
casting a shadow on Conover’s conviction. In late 
June 2003, the state prosecutors agreed to vacate 
the conviction, based on the DNA evidence, but 
they also maintained that Conover was guilty and 
vowed to retry him. 
However, leading up to the retrial, prosecutors 
offered Conover an Alford plea deal, allowing 
him to maintain his innocence on record while 
acknowledging that a jury could convict him in 
a retrial. The Alford plea would enable Conover 
to go home immediately. If he refused, he would 
have to take his chances with trial. 
Although the Alford plea deal would not 
exonerate Conover, he took the deal. Conover’s 


--- Page 32 ---

 32
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
mother was ill, and he wanted to be home with her 
as soon as he could. “It would not have been worth 
it to put my mother and my loved ones through 
another trial,” he told a Baltimore Sun reporter. 
And he worried that he might lose in a retrial 
and be sent back to prison. “I know that I’ve already 
walked into one courtroom and been wrongfully 
convicted,” he told Prison Legal News. He knew it 
could happen again.
In 2009, his defense team worked to petition 
then-Governor of Maryland, Martin O’Malley, 
for a pardon, which would entitle Conover to 
state compensation and would push the world to 
recognize that he was, in fact, innocent. Three 
years later, O’Malley rejected the petition. Online, 
the pardon commission advises petitioners: “Avoid 
trying to make excessive excuses for your crime and 
arguing away your guilt. Whatever you feel about 
the crime, you have already been found guilty.”

 According to Conover’s wife, Conover struggled 
with panic attacks, depression and anxiety, 
knowing that people around him still believed he 
was guilty. 
Darcy McGraw told me that innocent people 
who take time served and Alford plea deals face 
additional layers of trauma that exonerated people 
do not: those who haven’t been exonerated “have 
to cope with all the challenges of reentering society 
and know that the world will never recognize their 
innocence. It’s a double bind.”
In 2015, three years after O’Malley’s decision, 
Conover took his own life. His seventy-word 
obituary online mentions his wife, his family, 
his small hometown—Towson, Maryland—and 
directions to his funeral. It never proclaims that 
Conover was wrongfully convicted. It does not 
mention his crime. Rather, the last line reads:
“In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made 
in Christopher’s name to The Innocence Project, 
www.innocenceproject.org”

I visited Linda Morant, Stefon’s mother, at her 
home in New Haven. It’s a cozy white two-story 
house, with careful pruning and all the marks of a 
home that has been lived in by generations of family 
members. The walls are decked with portraits of 
parents, grandparents, kids, and grandkids, and 
photos from church, graduations, and vacations; 
milestones that have come and gone.
When I asked her how she passed twenty-one 
years without Morant, she pulled out a carefully 
saved letter from a dusty Bible, in which she had 
tucked away dozens of family photos, diplomas, 
and postcards among her most cherished psalms.
courtesy of Matt Nadel
“I missed my family. I needed to come home,” Stefon Morant said. “I didn’t want to be in a cage.”


--- Page 33 ---

 33
She showed me a letter she had drafted to Judge 
Hadden, the judge who handed Morant his life 
sentence. “I am asking you your honor to please 
grant my son a new trial,” she read from a letter 
she had never sent, her voice full of the despair 
that only a mother could conjure, twenty-five years 
after the fact. Growing desperate, Linda had also 
written to someone else: God.  
Dear God please release my son Morant from 
prison I thank you God and for all of my family and 
the world to be bless. Amen. 12/6/06 
Now that Morant is home, she finds herself 
praying for something new: his exoneration. “He’s 
free now, and I thank the Lord for that, but there’s 
more to be done,” she tells me.
She pulled out every school portrait of Morant 
and every family photo she could find. Sitting 
next to each other on her blue couch, we flipped 
through photos and watched Morant grow up. 
Photos of him with missing teeth and ears too 
big for his face were replaced by junior high 
school photos of a boy with a small moustache 
and frayed blue jeans. I saw him graduate night 
school, diploma in hand, beaming as he hugged 
his mom in his blue cap and gown. I saw him carry 
his twins as infants in a hotel room, buy them a 
stuffed animal that was even taller than they were 
for their second birthday, and drive them around 
in his blue Nissan.
She also showed me pictures of memories that 
Stefon had missed: his daughter at her middle 
school graduation, a family vacation down to 
South Carolina, a family cook-out for the fourth 
of July. 
The next week, I met up with Morant and his 
attorney, Ken Rosenthal, in New Haven. At the 
end of the meeting, when I began to pack up my 
stuff, Morant cut me off.
“What do you see when you look at that 
painting?”
He was staring at an abstract piece of art on 
Rosenthal’s wall, a work with earthy blues, greens, 
and browns. I saw splattered paints that seemed to 
be dripping towards a foggy lake. When I told him 
that I frankly didn’t really understand it, he threw 
his head back and laughed, beaming with a smile 
that covered his whole face.
 “Keep looking at it. Look, it’s crying right now. 
Or maybe it’s raining. I don’t know yet. But I’ll 
figure it out.”

When I first called Morant to request an 
interview, he told me that he was glad I’d be 
writing about him, but that he was busy— “there’s 
a lot I have to catch up on,” he said. He had to 
visit his family members, walk his mom’s dog, go 
to work, apply for new jobs, and meet with his 
attorneys. He would only be able to meet with me 
at 9 a.m. at Payne Whitney gym. “I work out every 
day because that’s my daily therapy. You can walk 
on the treadmill next to me, and we can talk,” he 
said.
 It turned out that the gym was closed, so 
Morant met me instead at Patricia’s, a diner on 
Whalley Avenue. In between bites of potatoes and 
a runny omelette, he walked me through his story, 
beginning with the day Raucci, the detective, first 
called him and asked to meet him at a local gas 
station. “I still wish I hadn’t called him back,” he 
said. “I didn’t know better.”
Twenty-eight years after that initial phone call, 
after struggling to find well-paying, consistent 
employment, Morant has found work he loves at 
the Connecticut Renaissance, a halfway house for 
formerly incarcerated men who are reintegrating 
into society. He said he tries to work as many hours 
a week as possible to save up money. “It’s been 
tight for me,” he says. “I can’t buy the things I need 
to buy, and I have kids.” One day, Morant hopes 
to chip away at the school-to-prison pipeline by 
opening up a mentoring program for at-risk young 
men in New Haven. 
But for now, he reminds himself that he is doing 
meaningful work. “It doesn’t pay much, but I think 
I’m doing what I’m meant to be doing. It’s God’s 
work,” he tells me.
Although Morant is now stably employed, he 
knows that many employers still cannot look past 
his criminal record. As his pardon petition process 
moves forward, he longs to have his conviction 
erased from his record, closure after his twenty-one 
years in prison, and some semblance of justice.

– Keerthana Annamaneni is a 
senior in Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: FAREWELL, SHIRU CAFE**
**Author: JACK MCCORDICK**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
With less than an hour to go 
before New Haven’s branch of the 
Japanese-owned Shiru Cafe closed 
for the last time, the place was almost empty. It 
was a balmy Friday afternoon just before the end 
of August, but inside, the AC was pumping cold 
air into the cafe’s cavernous interior. A cluster 
of baristas and a manager huddled at the back of 
the café, leaving the register unattended, while 
a handful of stray students dotted some of the 
cafe’s many tables and chairs. No one went up to 
order a drink. Only half an hour remained until 
the cafe would shutter its doors, fewer than four 
months after it opened on College Street. It was 
a swift and ignominious defeat for a coffee shop 
that branded itself on social media as “one of 
the most innovative cafes on the planet.”


The divine inspiration for Shiru’s business 
model hit its founder, Yuliy Kakimoto, while he 
was on a snowboarding trip years ago, according 
to the cafe’s website. By some bizarre alchemy, a 
car ride through a “long tunnel” during that trip 
inspired Kakimoto to conceive of a coffee shop 
that, instead of making a profit by selling coffee, 
would gather data from students and sell it to 
companies looking to recruit them. (As of the 
cafe’s closing date, the “sponsors” page on Shiru 
New Haven’s mobile app listed no companies.)


I had known about Shiru—which sparked 
controversy in the United States with its policy 
barring entry to anyone without a university ID—
since early May, when it opened its third U.S. 
location, in New Haven. Spurred by Facebook 
ads promising free coffee for “#collegestudents,” 
I had logged onto Shiru’s website to see exactly 
what the fuss was all about. 


Immediately after loading the homepage, I was 
waylaid by the “Shiru Cafe Bot,” who politely 
invited me to start a conversation in a simulated 
text chat box. But before I could ask any 
questions, the bot demanded to know whether 
I was a “student!”, “employer!”, “university 
professional!”, or “none of the above!” After I 
replied, my ebullient interlocutor sent me to 
the app store to download the Shiru Cafe app. 
I pressed on.


The app required me to set up an account 
with my Yale email and student ID number, 
and subsequently inquired about my area of 
study, employment history, and IT skills. I 
had a sneaking suspicion that my answers—
“Humanities,” “lifeguard,” and “None of 
them”—would disappoint. I prayed that the 
Shiru Cafe Bot wouldn’t find out.


Finally, the app asked me to select my desired 
industry from a drop-down menu of one hundred-
plus options, which ranged from the predictable 
(“Private Equity,” “Management Consulting”) 
to the quaint (“Dairy,” “Furniture”) to the 
creepily vague (“Outsourcing/Offspring”) to 
the downright insidious (“Plastic,” “Tobacco”). 
I selected “Newspapers,” and my account was 
complete. 


I didn’t make it to Shiru before classes ended 
last spring, but the cafe popped up on my social 
media feeds all summer. In May, two prominent 
members of the New Haven community—
New Haven Independent reporter Tom Breen 
and immigrant rights activist John Lugo—
approached the cafe on separate occasions and 
filmed tense exchanges with its manager, Barbara 
Jeanna Lafond (who declined to comment for 
this story), in which they questioned whether 
Shiru’s business model would exacerbate the 
city’s town-gown inequality. 


During the exchange with Breen, Lafond 
defended Shiru’s exclusionary policy: “We’re 
trying to change the normal way of doing 
things, so that students don’t have to go through 
what was uncomfortable in the past,” she said. 
(Ah, finally, a solution to the crippling anxiety I 
feel every time I walk into Blue State and brush 
elbows with a townie.) Soon after, Havenly 
Treats, a Yale-founded collaborative that trains 
refugee chefs in New Haven, ended its contract 
with Shiru and issued a public rebuke. 


“I refuse to give a penny to them, and everyone 
in the community who cares about justice 
and inclusion should do the same,” read one 
Facebook review from a Yale graduate student. 
Another review simply read: “Racism, classism, 
elitism. Nah.”


In mid-June—a month-and-a-half after the 
initial controversy over the cafe’s opening—
Shiru announced in a cryptic press release titled 
“Shiru Café USA New Business Model Expands 
Community Reach” that it was opening up its 
American locations to the wider public. 


But even after Shiru’s gesture toward 
inclusivity, something about the core of its 
business model—collecting data from cash-
strapped, caffeine-dependent college students 
in order to help corporate recruiters—still felt 
wrong. 


I returned to Shiru’s website looking for 
answers and, ignoring persistent “hey there!” 
messages from my old friend, the Shiru Cafe 
Bot, I stumbled onto the “Shiru Cafe Blog,” 
which promises to keep Shiru’s loyal customers 
abreast of the company’s progress. 


“Shiru,” an early blog post informed me, 
means “knowledge” in Japanese. After snooping 
around the blog for about an hour, it became 
clear to me that the people running Shiru have 
one epistemological fascination in particular: 
the “millenial.” 


Across the blog, articles abound with titles 
like “What a Millennial Wants.” 


“From hiring to training to attrition, leadership 
needs to understand what makes a ‘millennial’ 
tick,” advises one post. 


Another encourages businesses to woo 
millennials by appealing to their “freedom 
loving attitudes.”  


If you’re interested in hearing more of 
the cafe’s sage business advice, Shiru even 
published a short ebook this spring titled 
Recruiting: The Gen-Z Perspective. Among 
other New Age-y business strategies, the book 
encourages companies to develop an enticing 
corporate image as part of their recruiting 
process—because, as Shiru confidently asserts, 
“Gen Z is finely attuned to branding.” 


Millennials, Shiru seemed to be saying, are 
“principled,” but those principles can be easily 
bent into fodder for corporate recruitment with 
the right “branding.” Young people believe 
that “hierarchy is something that should be 
deconstructed”—but they can also be lured 
into a cafe barred to the general public by the 
promise of a free cup of joe. 


“Mr. Kakimoto, a millennial, understands the 
unique needs and opportunities facing students 
of his generation as well as employers seeking 
to hire the best and brightest,” reads yet another 
blog post on Shiru’s website. I, a millennial, 
would prefer that Mr. Kakimoto stick to 
snowboarding.
– Jack McCordick is a junior in Branford 
College. Yonatan Greenberg, a junior in 
Saybrook College, contributed reporting.



**Title: "Jewish Emancipation Across Five Centuries"**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

The Program in Judaic Studies  
presents 
"Jewish Emancipation Across Five Centuries" 
A PANEL DISCUSSION 
on the new book by  
Prof. David Sorkin 
 
with 
Marci Shore 
Associate Professor of History  in European cultural & intellectual history 
Elli Stern 
Associate Professor of Modern Jewish Intellectual and Cultural History; Judaic Studies, Religious Studies and History 
Samuel Moyn 
Henry R. Luce Professor of Jurisprudence and Professor of History 
October 2, 2019 
5:00pm 
 
Comparative Literature Library 
Bingham Hall,, 8th Floor  
300 College Street 
 
This event was made possible by the William & Miriam Horowitz Fund 

