Publication date: February 2, 1990
Volume: 
Issue number: 


**MASTHEAD:**
- **Position:**  Not Present


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About this Issue - 
Introduction - 
Mlnlfeatures - 
Features - 
May Day-What Happened? - Ellen Katz
Radical roomates ... the children's crusade ... welcome co-eds ... closing up shop. - 
The King's Conundrum - David Greenberg
Adventures in Doonland - Ruth Conniff
Awaiting the Awakening - Motoko Rich
On the Eve of Destruction - Danul Panner
Suspicion and Paranoia - 
Profiles - 
A Shared History - Gary Dauphin
Bobby Seale: Still Fighting for Freedom - Kathy Reich
Kurt Schmoke: Reform, not Revolution - Jamu Slaughter
John Hersey: A Survial That's Worth It - 



**Title: About this Issue**
**Author:** 
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Introduction**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: Mlnlfeatures**
**Page number(s): 11**


**Title: Features**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: May Day-What Happened?**
**Author: Ellen Katz**

It started with a dead body in the Coginchaug River, and escalated into a mass rally on the New 
Haven Green. By Ellen Katz.


**Title: Radical roomates ... the children's crusade ... welcome co-eds ... closing up shop.**


**Title: The King's Conundrum**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 20**

While radicals threatened to torch the campus, disgruntled alumni stopped giving mo~. President 
Kingman Brewster had to make sure the University sUTVived. By David Greenberg.


**Title: Adventures in Doonland**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 28**

Garry Trudeau's Doonesbury characters step out of the comics to talk about hippies, football, and 
the cartoonist's uncan'!)' skill. By Ruth Conniff.


**Title: Awaiting the Awakening**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 32**

During the strike, African-American professors demanded greater representation on the faculty and 
racial awareness at Yale. Sound familiar? By Motoko Rich.


**Title: On the Eve of Destruction**
**Author: Danul Panner**
**Page number(s): 38**

Conservatives saw May Day as a betrayal of academic neutrality and the beginning of the 
University's decline. By Danul Panner.


**Title: Suspicion and Paranoia**
**Page number(s): 42**

Essay


**Title: Profiles**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: A Shared History**
**Author: Gary Dauphin**

Long <ifter fear swept the city in 1970, the public is Imming about a secret wiretapping scheme 
that involved Yale police and the FBI. By Jamie Workman.


**Title: Bobby Seale: Still Fighting for Freedom**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 36**

The former chairman of the Black Panther Party is now renovating dilapidaled buildings, 
marketing his cookbook, and earning a Ph. D. By Kathy Reich.


**Title: Kurt Schmoke: Reform, not Revolution**
**Author: Jamu Slaughter**
**Page number(s): 45**

Interview


**Title: John Hersey: A Survial That's Worth It**

The Big Man on Campus in 1970, Mayor Kurt Schmolce of Baltimore today leads the .fight to 
decriminalize drugs. By Jamu Slaughter.

The former master of Pierson College talks politics and reassesses the future he predicted 20 JIMTS ago. 


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T h is semester 
marks 
the 
20th 
anniversary of May Day at Yale. In 
the spring of 1970, across the country, 
campus radicalism was at its height. 
Students at 450 colleges went on strike 
in opposition to the Vietnam War. Six 
of them were shot by National Guards-
men at Kent and Jackson State. The 
turmoil of the 1960s suddenly erupted 
at Yale when the national leader of the 
Black Panther Party stood trial for 
murder in the New Haven courthouse. 
15,000 protesters rolled in from out of 
town for a massive May 1 rally on the 
Green. Professors, local shopkeepers 
and alumni remember that weekend 
vividly. The National Guard marched 
down York Street; a cloud of tear gas 
hovered over the campus; a bomb 
exploded in Ingalls Rink. 

In addition to compiling these recol-
lections, TN] writers sifted through 
files in Sterling Library's Manuscripts 
and Archives room. We uncovered 
mimeographed flyers that read "Power 
to the People" and "Pigs Must Die," 
and pored over hasty, handwritten 
manifestos by students busy planning 
the strike, the university shut-down, 
the revolution ... 

Among the documents stuffed to-
gether in the library's May Day 
Collection, a menu, xeroxed onto a 
sheet of orange, recycled paper lists the 
meals available 
for 25 cents that 
weekend at Dwight H all: Familia, 
skim milk, fruit punch and instant tea. 
On the back of the menu, an anony-
mous student has scrawled a few notes 
in a fervent shorthand: "institutionalism 
of racism is most important ... New 
Haven people- Black, Irish, Russian, 
Italian . . . I came up thru structure 
and made it- and they can't." Further 
down in the margin, he has summar-
ized his internal struggles with this 
political 
insight: 
"2 conflicting 
desires- to get 
the final 
all-
encompassing analysis/perspective or 
to act on what I know." 

Toward the end of the spring term 
in 1970, Yale suspended classes and 
allowed students like this anonymous 
scribbler to act- to respond to the 
injustice they saw around them. The 
archives contain a chorus of other 
notes, an nouncements and minutes 
from meetings that document the 
results of this experiment. These 
eager, earnest jottings have a familiar 
4 The New Joumal!February 2, 1990 
GET 
EDUCf\1£D 
tone. It is easy to imagine the authors, 
huddled together around dining hall 
tables, or staying up all night in their 
dorm rooms. Like us, they were 
troubled by the vast problems of 
racism and oppression. And they, too, 
felt ambivalent about their respon-
sibility as Yale students to the city and 
the society around them. 

In many ways, though, the student 
movement of the 1960s and '70s has 
made us more ambivalent. We roman-
ticize the idealism of that era, even as 
we are cynical about it. Words like 
"Establishment" and "Power Structure" 
sound dated. 
All that talk about 
revolution, we are told, was just a lot of 
empty posturing. 

Shortly after May Day,John Hersey 
wrote a book about student activism at 
Yale, the first chapter of which he titled 
"On Bullshit.'' Before we can under-
stand the student movement of the 
1960s, Hersey wrote, we must dig 
through the layer of rhetoric that 
obscures what was real and relevant 
about the changes of that time. This is 
the challenge we share with the anony-
mous writer working out a political 
agenda on the back of his menu. How 
can we students apply our new-found 
wisdom to society's most entrenched 
problems? How much of our insight is 
valid and how much is just a lot ofb.s.? 
Finally, how much of the talk, the 
posture, and the idealism of the 1960s' 
radicalism can we laugh or sneer at in 
retrospect, and how much must we 
accept as shaping our political reality 
today? 

In this issue, we make no pretense of 
giving a definitive account of the 
1960s, or even of May Day at Yale. 
What we have done is to assemble a 
few scraps of history: an unpublished 
poem by Allen Ginsberg, some of the 
early Yale cartoons of Garry Trudeau, 
and interviews with people who were· 
here back then- Rosey of Rosey's 
Cleaners, Bobby Seale, Dean Donald 
Kagan, Mayor Kurt Schmoke of Balti-
more, and others. Their memories and 
opinions offer us a glimpse of the 
bullshit and reality of May Day, and 
maybe 
tell 
us 
somethmg about 
ourselves. 


**Title: May Day-What Happened?**
**Author: Ellen Katz**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"There ain't nothing wrong with taking 
the life of a inotherfucking pig!" Black 
Panther David Hilliard told 5000 Yale 
students packed into Ingalls Rink. The 
crowd booed, but Hilliard continued. 
"Go boo me again, racists .... Go 
back to your humanities classes. Yale 
has a long way to go if they don't think 
we're hostile . . . and angered by the 
inactivity of a bunch of young stupid 
motherfuckers." 

Down the street, Bobby Seale and 
eight other Black Panthers were on 
trial 
for murder. 
The 
Panthers' 
revolution had come to the Yale 
campus. "The Panther program was 
really asking of whites no more than 
our forbears 200 years before had 
asked 
of 
the 
British 
king 
and Parliament," said former Yale 
Chaplain and activist William Sloane 
Coffin, Jr. During the spring of 1970, 
Yale took up Hilliard's call to action. 
Classes stopped as students went on 
strike and rallied in sympathy with the 
Panthers. On the weekend of May 1, 
thousands of demonstrators converged 
on the New Haven Green. "We were 
the center of the universe for a few 
moments," said William Porter III 
(DC '71), now a history teacher in New 
Haven and current secretary of his 
class. "We made national news." 

It all began a year before May Day, 
when police pulled the body of Alex 
Rackley from the Coginchaug River 
25 miles ncrth of New Haven. The 
Black Panther had been shot 
twice, and cigarette burns and ice-pick 
wounds scarred his body. A wire 
hanger encircled his neck. On March 
13, 1970, Seale arrived in New Haven 
to stand trial for ordering the murder 
of Rackley, a suspected police in-
formant. The Panthers claimed that 
the police had trumped up the charges 
as part of a conspiracy to destroy their 
movement and the cry spread, "Free 
Bobby Seale." Hilliard warned, "If 
anything happens to Bobby Seale, 
there will not be any lights for days in 
this country. Not only will we burn 
buildings, we will take lives. We will 
kill judges." The party threatened to 
storm 
the Montville, 
Connecticut 
prison where Seale was incarcerated. 

The Yale community began to rally 
to the Panthers' defense just before the 
trial. During pre-trial proceedings on 
April 14, Judge Harold Mulvey sen-
tenced Hilliard and Panther Emory 
Douglas to six months in prison after 
they argued with a court officer who 
told Hilliard to stop reading a note. 
Although Mulvey released the two 
"We were the center of 
the universe for a few 
moments. We made 
national news." 
men the following week, his over-
reaction lent credence to the Panthers' 
claim that white courts could not treat 
black revolutionaries fairly. "I had 
great sympathy for the Panthers," said 
Coffin, now president of a nuclear 
disarmament group, "if not as champi-
ons of justice then as victims of injus-
tice." The Panther slogan "Power to 
the people" began to echo throughout 
the campus. 

"The issue of racism in this trial 
brought something to our conscious-
ness," said Porter. "We began to think 
that maybe this wasn't the land of the 
free, and people weren't innocent until 
proven guilty." More than 400 Yale 
students attended a meeting on April 
15 w discuss how to show their con-
cern. Suggestions included bombing 
Yale, shutting off New Raven's water 
supply, and, as one law student 
proposed, the public shooting of one 
volunteer each day until Seale was 
freed. Their actual response was much 
more moderate. They called on the 
Yale Corporation to donate $500,000 
to the Panthers' defense and declared a 
four-day 
moratorium on classes. 

Meanwhile, Panther supporters 
announced a rally to be held on May 1 
on the New Haven Green. They 
predicted 50,000 people would come. 
Yale President Kingman Brewster 
feared that protesters arriving in New 
Haven for the rally would vent their 
wrath on the University, a symbol of 
the white establishment. Over the 
objections of some masters and faculty, 
Brewster decided to open up the 
campus to the out-of-town demon-
strators in the hope of defusing their 
anger. The residential colleges would 
provide food and housing. 

As administrators braced for the 
onslaught, students and faculty began 
to talk of striking. Many students felt 
they were wasting their time in class 
while events of national importance 
unfolded around them. "I came to see 
the need for some taking of time, some 
suspension of business as usual," said 
French Professor Peter Brooks. Yet 
some questioned what a strike would 
accomplish. "Were we going to stop the 
trial?" Porter wondered. "Was he going 
to get a fairer trial because we were 
doing this?" 

After the rally at Ingalls Rink on 
April 21, students returned to their 
colleges to decide whether to strike. 
Calhoun and Silliman voted strongly 
in favor of. the idea, while Saybrook 
came out against it. A group called the 
Strike Steering Committee pressed for 
the dismissal of charges against the 
"New Haven Nine" and, in addition, 
demanded that Yale provide unem-
ployment compensation and day-care 
facilities 
for its 
employees, fund 
The New Journal/February 2, 1990 7 


--- Page 8 ---

community 
housing projects, 
and 
cease buying up New Haven property. 
Students began 
picketing 
Linsly-
Chittenden and Harkness Halls with 
signs reading, "Skip class, 
talk 
politics." Some heeded only the first 
part of this exhortation. Porter said, "I 
didn't think of not goipg to class in a 
political sense. I thought of it more as 
'Hey, I don't have to go to class 
today."' 

But if some undergraduates spent 
their April days playing frisbee and 
suntanning, others took the strike 
seriously. 
Silliman 
coordinated 
a 
"teach-out" in which more than 500 
students and faculty canvassed New 
Haven neighborhoods to publicize 
their concerns about the trial. The 
baseball team donated the proceeds 
from its games to the Black Student 
Alliance; the track team withdrew 
from the Penn Relays. Singing groups 
held jams to raise money for the 
Panthers' defense. 

A 
daily 
strike 
newspaper began publishing from 
Dwight Hall. In its first issue of April 
24, it reported class attendance had 
dropped by between 65 
and 75 
percent. 

More than 400 professors attended a 
special faculty meeting in Sprague 
Hall on April 23 to discuss the trial and 
the strike. While hundreds of demon-
strators clamored outside the building, 
inside Brewster said he was skeptical 
whether black revolutionaries could get 
a fair trial in the U.S. -a statement 
that would cause a national uproar. 
The faculty 
then overwhelmingly 
voted to "modify normal academic 
expectations" and Brewster issued a 
directive supporting the resolution. 
Some professors kept teaching, some 
used class time to discuss racism and 
the trial, and others cancelled class 
altogether. 

As May Day approached, tension on 
campus grew. A week before the rally 
$2500 worth of mercury, which is used 
to make bombs, was swiped from 
Sterling Chemistry lab. Just outside 
New Haven, several hundred shotguns 
with fixed bayonets were stolen from 
the back of a truck. Radical groups 
ranging from the Weathermen to 
Hell's Angels were rumored to be 
arriving in New Haven to torch Yale. 
Administrators began removing vital 
records from the treasurer's office 
and valuable artwork from the 
galleries. The entire Sterling Library 
card catalog was photocopied. 
Telephone linemen 
welded down 
manhole covers to prevent trouble-
makers from severing cables. Students 
8 The New journal/February 2, 1990 
packed up their stereos and television 
sets and left town. 

The night before May Day, &ichard 
Nixon announced on national tele-
vision that the U.S had invaded 
Cambodia: The disclosure enraged 
students already angry about the 
Vietnam War, and violence seemed 
more likely than ever. 

Attorney 
General John Mitchell dispatched 
4,000 Marines and paratroopers to 
nearby military bases; Governor John 
Dempsey called 2,500 National Guard 
troops into downtown New Haven. 
Brooks said hearing the news of the 
invasion was "the worst moment of that 
spring." 

By the morning of May 1, the city 
was prepared for battle. Plywood 
panels covered the ground-floor 
windows of every building in the 
downtown 
area. 
Police positioned 
themselves on the far end of the Green, 
armed with clubs and tear gas. The 
National Guard stood several blocks 
away. While driving into New Haven 
that morning, Brooks said, he saw a 
long line of troops stationed in front of 
the Grove Street Cemetery beneath the 
words, "The Dead Shall Be Raised." 
He recalled the heavy weaponry and 
the "rifle barrels sticking in every 
direction." 

By afternoon, the climate had 
changed. It was warm and sunny as 
15,000 demonstrators gathered on the 
Green. Loudspeakers blasted "Here 
Comes the Sun" and the message 
repeated, "It's all right . . . . It's all 
right." The sweet smell of marijuana 
Demonstrators on Elm street for 1 
variety of causes (above). A 
protestor holding a Panther paper 
outside the courthouse (right). 
Slogans splashed across a buildin! 
at Yale (below). 


--- Page 9 ---

drifted throu'gh the air. "It was an 
absolutely beautiful day," said Brooks 
Kelley, a historian of Yale. "That 
helped undoubtedly to defuse things 
because it was more like a country fair 
than a place where people were up in 
arms." A few shirtless youths took 
down the American flag and hoisted 
the banner of Abbie Hoffman and 
Jerry Rubin's Yippie Party. A Har-
vard senior told Time magazine, "One 
just should be here, not to trash or 
fight, but to be on the right side." 

The rally itself was a grab bag of 
moderate speeches; 
not even the 
violent rhetoric seemed too menacing. 
"If the U.S. has lost face in Vietnam, 
it's going to lose its ass in Cambodia," 
Hoffman said. "If they find Bobby . . . 
and the Panthers guilty, we're going to 
pick up [the courthouse] and send it to 
the moon." Others preached nonvio-
lence. It was not the time "to kill pigs," 
Panther leader Doug Miranda said. 
He advised the crowd, "When you 
walk around the campus tonight, walk 
hiply, walk quietly." 

Late in 
the afternoon, 
rally 
organizers opened the microphone to 
anyone who wanted to talk. "The result 
was that you got people who were for 
women's rights, gay rights, and any 
cause you can practically thing of," 
Kelley said. "You got these long, long 
speeches for things that had nothing to 
do with the issue at hand, and that had 
to help make it calm. People got a little 
bored." Demonstrators returned to 
colleges for a dinner of soup, brown 
rice, salad, granola and coffee. Some 
snacked on "civil defense survival 
crackers" that had been stored in 
university basements in preparation 
for nuclear war. Students reported the 
crackers were inedible. 

As night fell, fighting broke out. A 
false rumor that police were arresting 
Panthers spread from college to college 
and demonstrators rushed to the 
Green. Hoping to stem the onrushing 
crowds, Coffin handed a 
police 
bullhorn to a young Panther, who 
ordered the crowd, "Back in the 
colleges, you motherfuckers. Anyone 
who stays on the Green is a mother-
fuckin' pig in civilian clothes." As the 
demonstrators retreated, Coffin 
suggested to 
Police Chief James 
Ahem, "Maybe you ought to hire that 
kid." Neither Ahem nor Coffin ever 
saw the bullhorn again, although it was 
heard periodically during the evening. 
Sporadic clashes between demon-
strators and police condnued for 
several hours. 
Some strapped on 
World War I gas masks and with rocks



**Title: bodies quietly pass monttric peace Feat**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
bodies 
quietly pass monttric peace Feat 
grass freedom thru our nation 
Attourne7a Genera1 A Co~~• obe7 
the Law 
and end your violent War Aaaeablase 
0 Leglaleturea peas your Creeds or 
order 
& end by proper law illegal war! 
Now ~an sits Acme Conscious over


Around midnight, glass shattered as three 
bombs exploded in a stairwell at Ingalls Rink. 
and bottles in hand, moved on the 
police; the cops responded by firing 
tear gas canisters. As the gas drifted 
onto Old Campus, people fled, leaving 
the quadrangle deserted except for the 
poet Allen Ginsberg, who sat cross-
legged on the bandstand chanting 
~om, Om." A few students came back 
to hold wet towels to Ginsberg's eyes as 
tears rolled down his face, and the oms 
went on. 

Around midnight, glass shattered as 
three bombs exploded in a stairwell at 
Ingalls 
Rink. 
The blast shook 
buildings several blocks away. 
Although thousands crowded into the 
rink for a rock concert, the rumor of 
Panther arrests had all but emptied the 
building. 
No one was 
se~t~ously 
injured, but the damage cost nearly 
$1 00,000 to repair. 

Saturday was much like Friday, with 
calm speeches during the day and 
fighting between protesters and police 
at night. 
Because of diminishing 
attendance-only 7000 were on hand 
for the second rally- the afternoon 
passed quietly and organizers decided 
to cancel the activities scheduled for 
Sunday. Just after dark, however, a 
fire broke out at the rally headquarters 
on the corner of Church and Elm 
Streets, where the New Haven Savings 
Bank now stands. Spectators gathered, 
first on the' courthouse steps, then 
more of them on the Green. Once 
again, demonstrators threw rocks and 
bottles; again, police and National 
Guardsmen responded with tear gas. 
The gas spread into colleges and 
seeped into dorm rooms, and students 
had to take refuge in the attics. Still, by 
the end of the weekend, the police had 
made just 37 arrests, including only 
one Yale student, and no one had been 
seriously hurt. 

The National Guard began rolling 
out of New Haven on Monday-the 
same day troops in Ohio killed four 
students on the Kent State campus. 
"What happened at Kent State was 
what my father was scared to death 
would happen here," Porter said. The 
relative peace in New Haven led Life 
magazine to conclude, "Yale proves 
:lissent doesn't have to turn out that 
way." 

The national media praised Yale's 
handling of the protests, and the 
Corporation unanimously backed 
Brewster's actions during the strike. 
Some students began preparing for 
finals, while others continued to skip 
class as part of a national strike against 
the Cambodian invasion. Officially, 
normal academic activities resumed, 
with special 
grading procedures 
provided for work missed during the 
strike. 

"I'm not sure what the May Day 
protests did really accomplish," Coffin 
said. "It certainly did not free Bobby 
Seale." But while the protesters did not 
stop the trial from going forward, Seale 
was eventually freed. On May 26, 
1971, Mulvey dismissed all charges 
against Seale as well as fellow Panther 
Ericka Huggins after the trial ended 
with a hung jury. Mulvey figured that 
a second trial would only generate 
more controversy and result in a 
similar deadlock. 

Twenty years after May Day, the 
issues ·raised by the spring protests still 
reverberate on campus. If Seale's trial 
made Yale students think about racism 
in the judicial system, debates today 
over divestment, hiring practices and 
curricula indicate similar concerns 
about Yale itself. While in 1970 
conservatives attacked Kingman 
Brewster for having violated Yale's 
neutrality by supporting the strike, 
President Benno Schmidt now draws 
cntJCJsm for not being outspoken 
enough. In 1970. the Strike Steering 
Committee called upon Yale to take 
responsibility for the welfare of the 
New Haven community by providing 
housing and day care; today, admini-
strators discuss investment in the city 
and students volunteer in a range of 
community projects begun then. 

By raising these issues, May Day pro-
foundly affected Yale and the students 
of 20 years ago, and helped shape the 
generation that followed. 

• 
Ellen Katz, a junior in Timothy Dwight 
College; is on the staff of TN].


**Title: Radical Roommates**
**Author: Marie Ribbing**
**Page number(s): 11**

The official 
line was 
explicit. 
"Remember that the colleges are not 
sanctuaries from 
the 
police," ad-
monished a Davenport memorandum. 
"They are free to enter the college and 
to make arrests for violations of drug, 
liquor, 
and weapons 
regulations. 
Please be observant of these laws." A 
Timothy Dwight notice read, "Should 
violence occur in streets around TD 
the gates will be closed . . . TD will not 
be a fortress or a political refuge but a 
center for aid." Not all students, 
however, adhered to the rules. "We 
had lookouts in the tower. We had peo-
ple patrolling the courtyard. If 
anybody was being chased into Stiles, 
we had plans to close and bar the gates 
on the cop," said Jeff Lewis (ES '70). 

In anticipation of the May Day ral-
ly, Yale students had chosen to 
"liberate" their residential colleges, of-
fering shelter to the visiting 
demonstrators. Berkeley opened half 
of its rooms while T.D. 
restricted 
guests to "public spaces" such as the 
buttery, 
squash courts, 
ping-pong 
room and laundry room. In Stiles, 
Lewis said, "We opened up the entire 
college. Some took people into the 
rooms. 
Most 
camped 
m 
courtyard." 

T he visitors 
who occupied the 
couches and common-room floors 
ranged from Harvard friends to Black 
Panthers. 
One 
respondent 
to 
a 
questionnaire issued after May Day 
described the people he hosted as "col-
lege kids (who J seemed fairl y 
harmless." Another characterized her 
guest as a "nice liberal guy with a gas 
mask." Other Yalies remember their 
guests as radical, militant, or just plain 
bizarre. "T here were all kinds of weird 
people," said Bruce McMurdo (MC 
'71 ). "There were people from Antioch 
gathering in the streets, practicing 
drills they'd learned from European 
student protesters." Master Richard 
Lewis of Calhoun wrote that counter-
culture icons Abbie Hoffman and 
Jerry Rubin showed up at his house 
looking for ~ place to stay. He scrib-
bled on the form: "Hoffman and 
Rubin not invited ... Rubin 'high' all 
the time." The word 
"not" 
was 
underlined twice. 

Four Black Panthers from Harlem 
stayed with Mike Petru (BK '73), but 
they were too interested in the sur-
rounding turmoil to hang around O ld 
"They tended to be 
sort of dogmatic. 
T hey were heroic in a 
kind of m acho sense, 
but you didn't want 
them to open their 
mouths." 
Campus very long. "They were people 
I didn't spend very much time with," 
Petru said. On one of the evenings, 
when tear gas spread through the 
streets, his guests left to check out the 
action and never came back to Welch 
Hall. Bill Crawford (BR '70) spent a 
few uncomfortable moments talking 
with the visiting Panther contingent: 
"They tended to be sort of dogmatic. 
They were heroic in a kind of macho 
sense, but you didn't want them to 
open their mouths." 

Some students were afraid to host 
anyone at all. Ed Samuels (SM '71) 
wrote in an unpublished account of the 
period, "R eflecting my own personal 
concern 
with 
certain valuables 
I 
owned, I didn't sign up to house 
demonstrators in my room." There 
were 
some 
scattered breaches of 
hospitality. Dan Horowitz (MC '71) 
said his student guests stole from his 
room. "T hat kind of took the idealism 
out of the whole thing," he said. One 
Calhoun respondent to the question-
naire claimed that his guests had 
engaged in a different sort of extralegal 
activity: "One guy was a pimp, pimp-
ing off white chicks and giving money 
to the Panthers." Such rumors and 
suspicion thrived in the chaotic at-
mosphere. 

Still, on the whole, Yale students' 
willingness to assist the demonstrators 
superseded any fears of abuses of the 
system. Many said they did not hear 
abou t anything going wrong. "Maybe 
this was just naivete, but I myself 
wasn't in the slightest worried about it. 
It j ust seemed so antithetical to the 
spirit of the time," said Robert Gordon 
(TD '73). 

"T he spirit of the time" probably best 
explains why the students were so 
willing to open up their residences in 
1970 to total strangers. "It was a much 
more experimental crowd back then. 
The times were just so different," 
Bruce McMurdo explained. "Students 
now would be like, 'Well, I paid my 
tuition,' and would see all the people as 
a kind of intrusion." It seems remark-
able today, as college committees work 
to raise our consciousness about securi-
ty and remind us not to prop open en-
tryway doors, but that weekend, vir-
tually the only people Yalies barred the 
gates on were the cops. 

-Marie Ribbing 
The New JoumaVFebruary 2, 1990 It 


**Title: The Children's Crusade**
**Page number(s): 12**

In 
the converted 
firehouse 
on 
Highland Street which houses the 
Calvin Hill Day Care Center, pre-
schoolers play with handmade dress-up 
clothes and miniature kitchen utensils. 
As they put on costumes and cook up 
an imaginary lunch, the children are 
oblivious to the trouble it took to get 
them there. 

To enroll the toddlers in a day-care 
facility, working parents face heavy 
competition. Calvin Hill, now cele-
brating its 20th anniversary, accepted 
only 30 percent of its applicants this 
year, and most other centers in the city 
are just as full. In Ne"-" Haven, the 
day-care crunch makes many .families 
desperate, and at Yale, a growing 
number of faculty members are vying 
for the prized spots in Calvin Hill. 

While the center is renowned for its 
progressive child-care practices, it has 
strayed from some of the original goals 
of its founders. In 1970, students in-
sisted on day care for low-income 
families of Yale's union employees. But 
today, Calvin Hill admits children of 
Yale professors and graduate students, 
and less than half of its children come 
from union families. 

Twenty years ago, day care barely 
existed at all. The University had no 
plans to build up any family services 
until October 1969, when the firing of 
Colia Williams, a waitress in Jonathan 
Edwards Dining Hall, sparked student 
protest against the administration. 
Williams missed a day of work to care 
for one of her children, and her 
dismissal became the focus of a union 
strike organized by Students for a 
Democratic Society. 

Mary Pearl (DC '72), co-founder of 
the Calvin Hill Center and Kurt 
Schmoke (DC '71) urged the Universi-
ty to set up a low-cost day-care facility 
for employees like Williams. The only 
child-care service in New Haven at 
the time was at the Yale Medical 
School. 

Pearl and Schmoke did not realize 
the difficulty of the undertaking they 
12 The New Journal/February 2, 1990 
had proposed. "We were not very 
realistic," said Pearl. The student 
leaders, joined by Sam Chauncey, 
Seymour Lustman, master of Daven-
port College, and I.:.ustman's wife 
Kitty, director of the Medical School 
Child Study Center, formed a group to 
establish a permanent day-care center 
at Yale. 

Schmoke, a football player, wanted 
to name the center after his former 
teammate Calvin Hill (PC '69), who 
then 
attending theological 
seminary and starting for the Dallas 
Cowboys. Although he had no direct 
connection with day care, Hill, a Yale 
celebrity, agreed to give his name to 
the center and became its principal 
fundraiser. 

Convincing administrators that day 
care needed University backing was 
more difficult. 
Not everyone was 
thrilled by the students' proposal. Pearl 
says that even President Kingman 
Brewster, who wrote to foundations on 
behalf of the program, once told her 
Ch d&famiy 
Center 
not to hound him about funding when 
she sat next to him at a speech on 
campus. 

The students, however, loved the 
idea. The Strike Steering Committee 
included an initiative on day care in its 
list of five demands for the University, 
and on May Day weekend, students in 
Davenport College organized an 
emergency day-care unit for the in-
coming protesters. 

Pegnataro's, a local Italian grocery 
store, donated barrels of granola to 
feed the kids. A New Haven pediatri· 
cian spent the weekend in the master's 
house caring for a two-year-old girl 
who arrived with medicine for juvenile 
diabetes. Brewster himself stopped by 
several times with his golden retriever 
over the course of the weekend. 

That first makeshift unit had none of 
the fancy toys or dress-up costumes 
that clutter the Calvin Hill Day Care 
Center today. The children of the 
vtsttmg prO£esters who took over 
DaveRport's common room slept with 



**The Legacy of May Day**
**Author: Abby Young**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
borrowed blankets, pillows, and sleeping bags spread out on the floor. 

Although most of them seemed to adapt to their temporary surroundings, some brought traces of their parents' radicalism. "I remember seeing a somewhat angelic child write 'kill the pigs' all over the poster she was painting," recalled Pearl. 

After May Day, children went home and students continued to rally for permanent day care at Yale. Within the month, the administration promised to match any funds Pearl and Schmoke's group could raise. Donations totalling $17,500 came in from various sources, including the Yale Symphony Orchestra and the secret society Book and Snake. Over the summer, the rector of St. Thomas More House on Park Street offered the use of the church's recreation room, and in September, 1971, Calvin Hill officially opened its doors. The day-care center remains the only demand from the May Day strike ever tangibly realized. 

Even in that first year, Calvin Hill did not attract as many children from union families as its founders had expected. Only eight of the original 20 children had parents who belonged to Yale's unions. "It was a thing before its time," Chauncey said. "Many blue-collar workers were suspicious of day care. Many of them wondered what was going to happen to their children." 

Today more working-class parents want day care, but they cannot be sure Calvin Hill will have spaces for them. Although it remains the only Yale center which provides care based on need alone, Pearl, now assistant director of the Bronx Zoo and a mother of two young children, remains skeptical about the center she helped create. 

"What was meant to be something geared toward union workers," she said, "has come to belong to the middle class." 

• 
-Abby Young


**Welcome Co-eds!**
**Author: Milena Navy and Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

Women breeze in and out of the Center next door to Durfee's Sweet Shop all day. In a front room jammed with ragged couches, piles of posters, and free condoms, students check the chalkboard calendar for meetings and conferences. Right now, the calendar is especially full. It is the 20th anniversary of women at Yale, and celebratory events are planned for almost every week of the semester. But even without the recent events, the Yale Women's Center regularly invites over 10 groups to meet in its space. These groups address a variety of issues, from date rape to dieting to birth control. 

As it has expanded since 1970, the Center has publicized women's concerns on campus. And over the years, the same concerns have come up again and again: paid parental leave, on-site University-subsidized day care, and more aggressive recruiting of female professors. Not until this year did Yale President Benno Schmidt agree to establish specific positions for women on the faculty. 

While this year's 20th anniversary celebration spotlights female students, the first co-educational class at Yale spent its second semester thrown into a movement that did not champion the rights of women. Beyond the call for day care, none of the official May Day demands recognized women's interests. 

A small group of women tried to capitalize on the spirit of social reform. During the 1970 student strike, they circulated a list of demands, prodding the University to increase female representation on the faculty, end job segregation for non-faculty workers, provide paid maternity leaves, and strive for a 50-50 male-female student ratio. They also wanted better gynecological services at the Department of University Health Services and a department of Women's Studies taught and administered by women. 

None of these demands was met until nine years later, when the University founded the Women's Studies program. Faculty numbers have risen from one female professor for every hundred male professors in 1970, to eighteen per hundred in 1990, an increase of less than one per year. 

Women now make up only 45 percent of the student body. Most of the other demands from 1970 remain unanswered. 

The women who spoke out that spring had not yet organized a formal movement, and represented a small percentage of the female population on campus. Often, they had a hard time even getting together. "None of us knew each other because 'of the way they divided us up into different colleges," said Virginia Diamond (BR '73). Susanne Wofford, associate professor of English and a member of Yale's first co-ed class, does not recall any women's activism during that time. "My impression is that there wasn't very much that was done specifically for women by women," she said. Diamond, Wofford, and other women joined in the protests for the civil rights of African-Americans instead. 

In the midst of the demonstration, a few women managed to set up a temporary women's center on the second floor of SSS Hall. Throughout the weekend, visiting female protesters from colleges around New England could seek refuge there. The center scheduled workshops like "Sexism and Racism," "Women Revolutionaries," and "Venceramos Brigade." 

Some women were angry that their concerns received little attention in 1970. A poster tacked up outside Mory's announced: "If we were black or Mexican-American or American Indian, would you understand our RAGE better? Why can't you translate your 'liberal' views into human rights for all people?" 

Although the Black Panthers overshadowed feminist sentiment that term, women's activism did not subside when the Panther trials ended. 

"The women's movement was still gaining momentum," said Diamond, now a labor lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union. "In reaction to the male domination of the civil rights and antiwar movements, women were getting really interested in feminist issues." 

Today Yale men, too, have joined the women's movement, particularly to fight for reproductive rights. The recently formed Yale chapter of "Students Organizing Students" is a pro-choice group led by both men and women. With the group, women hope that men will come to understand many of the other issues that concern them. To make institutional change, women and men will have to work together. 

- Milena Navy and Motoko Rich


**Closing Up Shop**
**Author: Arthur Bradford**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

May Day cost Rosey's Cleaners on Wall Street a lot of money. "It cost me $350 dollars just to board the place up," said Herbert Rosenberg, or Rosey, as he is known throughout Yale and New Haven. Like dozens of other shopkeepers who own stores downtown, Rosey closed his business and fortified his showcase windows with layers of plywood. Although no one came into the shop for two days, Rosey said the place was swamped beforehand with students rushing in to pick up their clothing before heading home to avoid what they thought would be a full-scale riot. "They were all scared to hell."

Rosey and his sister Georgiana both remember seeing protesters walking by their shop on their way to the Green, some with clubs and bats in their hands, one even brandishing a fencing foil. In his 62 years in the business, the tailor can remember no event like May Day. "We were closed for three days then, and we never close, except for deaths in the family," he said. 

"Business came to a halt," said David Battista, who used to run the shoe store on Temple Street that still bears his name. "We were told not to open because the situation was pretty critical. No one knew what to expect." 

Since his store was literally only a stone's throw from the Green, Battista was particularly worried about his windows. Nonetheless, he did not board up his shop; instead he called his insurance agent. "I knew that we were involved in a very serious situation in which many stores could get destroyed or looted," he said. Battista was relieved to hear that his store was covered under a civil-disorder clause. 

Not all storeowners in the area saw May Day as a danger. Rafael Dilauro, the owner and manager of Group W Bench, said he thought of those days as just "a regular weekend." (Dilauro sports a beard at least a foot long and describes himself as "very liberal.") At the time he ran what he calls "a head shop" on Edgewood Avenue. His store, which has since moved to Chapel Street, sells, among other things, colored beads, psychedelic jewelry, exotic musical instruments and carved wooden pipes. Dilauro stayed open and kept normal hours during the protests. Unlike most shopkeepers in the area, he thought that May Day had positive effects on the community. "I kind of liked it. It put some national focus on New Haven." He said the government's reaction of calling in the National Guard was unnecessary. "It was total overkill. The whole thing was over before it started." 

One thing Rosey the tailor remembers about the period was the change in fashion among students. "They started to wear a lot of khakis and blue jeans," he noted. "You know I think that all started with the Beatles, I really do." 

There is perhaps no better judge of Yale fashion than Paul Press, owner of J. Press on York Street, whose upscale shop sells clothing ranging from the classic navy blue blazer to the multi-colored scarves associated with each of Yale's residential colleges. Press said that business during those first days of May was particularly slow, but added that in those days students weren't flocking to J. Press anyway. "The undergraduates were reluctant to buy our clothes because of the lifestyle then. They were wearing awful-looking things and everybody would be ashamed to come in and buy a suit. If they did, they kept it quiet." Although he hired two "well-armed guards" to protect his store, windows were broken and a few small items were stolen from the displays. 

"This was something you would never have expected to happen at Yale because of the background of the boys that were here and their educational and cultural training before they were at Yale," said Press, who is skeptical of the motivations behind the protests. "It was just a good opportunity to raise hell and so forth." 

Dilauro looks back on the events of May Day with nostalgia. He claims that the years since then have lacked the spirit and unpredictability of those times, but he expects that the '90s will bring in a new age of activity. 

"Something is happening. I'm not exactly sure what it is," he said, smiling. 

Rosey, on the other hand, would probably not agree. From his vantage point behind the counter of his cleaning business, he continues to watch Yale and New Haven carefully, and remains confused by May Day. 

"Those people out there on the Green," he said, "they were all fighting and shouting out against the establishment. They're all in the establishment now." 

-Arthur Bradford

Art students politely stenciled their slogans around the posters left by other protesters.

Publisher 
David King 
Editor-in-Chief 
Ruth Conniff 
Managing Editors 
David Greenberg 
Motoko Rich 
Business Manager Jerry Hwang 
Designer Stephen Hooper 
Production Manager 
Lisa Silverman 
Photography Editor John Kim 
Associate Photography Editor 
Jennifer Pitts 
Associate Designer 
Ethan Cohen 
Subscription Manager 
Adrienne Lo 
Staff 
Andrea Assarat 
Arthur Bradford* 
Eric Fisher 
Matthew Fleischer 
Julie Hantman 
Hank Hsu 
Ellen Katz 
Kevin Klein 
E. Stewart Moritz 
Josh Plaut 
Pam Stumer• 
Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III • 
Constance Clement -
Peter B. Cooper • Andy 
Court • Brooks Kelley • Michelle Press • Fred 
Strebeigh • Thomas Strong 
Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. 
Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett Ill • Blaire 
Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark • 
Louise F. Cooper • James W. Cooper • Peter B. 
Cooper • Jerry and Rae Court • David Freeman 
• Geoffrey Fried • Sherwin Goldman • John 
Hersey • Brooks Kelley • Roger Kirwood • 
Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • 
E. Nobles Lowe • Peter Neill • Julie Peters • 
Fairfax C. Randall • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • 
Arleen and Arthur Sager • Dick and Debbie 
Sears • Richard Shields • Thomas Strong • 
Elizabeth Tate • Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen 
and Sarah Wardwell • Peter Yeager • Daniel 
Yergin 
(Volume 22. Number 4) The New Journal is published six times 
during the school year by The New Journal at Yale. Inc., Post 
Office Box 3132 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. 
Copyright 1990 by The New Journal at Yale. Inc. All rights 
reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written 
permission of the publisher and editor-in-chief is prohibited. 
This magazine is published by Yale College students, and Yale 
University is not responsible for its contents. 
Eleven thousand copies of each issue are distributed free to 
members of the Yale University community. 
The New Journal is typeset by the Charlton Press of New Haven, 
CT, and printed by Rare Reminder, Inc. of Rocky Hill, CT. 
Bookkeeping and billing services provided by Colman 
Bookkeeping of New Haven, CT. 
Office address: 300 Crown Street, Office 312 
Phone: (203) 432-1957 
Subscriptions are available to those outside the Yale Community. 
Rates: One year, $12. Two years, $20 
The New Journal encourages letters to the editor and comment on 
Yale and New Haven issues. Write to Ruth Conniff, Editor-in-Chief, 
3132 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for 
publication must include address and telephone number. The New 
Journal reserves the right to edit all letters for publication.



**Title: The King's Conundrum**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The King's Conundrum 
David Greenberg 
Just after midnight on the morning of 
May 1, 1970, two cars drove up to the 
president's house. A small group of 
well-known radicals made.their way up 
the front steps and into the foyer, 
where Yale President Kingman 
Brewster waited to escort them to his 
capacious living room. The radi-
cals- three of them members of the 
Chicago Seven, on trial for conspiring 
to 
riot at the 
1968 Democratic 
convention- stood uncomfortably for 
a few minutes, looking at one another: 
Tom Hayden, the scruffy founder of 
Students for a Democratic Society; 
John Froines, a Yale Ph.D. and 
leading academic voice against the 
Vietnam War; his wife Anne; and 
David Dellinger (YC '36), the middle-
aged veteran of the peace movement 
who was to direct the next day's rally. 
Brewster had arranged this secret 
negotiating session on the eve of May 
Day to find out what the radicals had 
in store for 
tomorrow's demon-
strations. 

Hayden described the meeting in his 
memoir. "Everyone graciously tiptoed 
around the issue of what would happen 
in the street," he said, until he 
took it upon himself to break the ice. 
"After the diplomatic niceties had gone 
on for half an hour, I interjected: 
'Look, let's be very clear. We are not 
necessarily your friends and allies. But 
we- the Chicago defendants- agree 
with the Panthers that there should be 
no violence here this weekend." The 
comment was what Brewster and Yale 
16 The New Journal/February 2, 1990 
Corporation member Cyrus Vance, 
who 
had 
skipped his 
daughter's 
graduation to be there, were wait'lng to 
hear. The two had feared that the May 
Day rally would degenerate into a huge 
brawl. · 
· 

T he demonstration leaders were 
nervous, too. Rumor had it that the 
governor was calling in the National 
Guard to encircle the Green with 
bayonets, and Hayden and his cohorts 
demanded that Brewster keep the 
troops away. After long deliberations, 
"There was something 
of the swashbuckler in 
him. Confrontation fit 
his style." 
the rally leaders pledged to keep the 
crowd calm, in exchange for a promise 
from Brewster to try to reposition the 
Guard. But what the radicals did not 
know was that the troops would not be 
there anyway. 
"We had 
already 
worked it out with the Guard not to be 
around the Green," Brewster told an 
interviewer later. "But I had to have 
some bargaining power." 

Kingman Brewster had pulled off 
another of the diplomatic master-
strokes that made him famous during 
May Day. Always cultivating the 
image of approachability, the president 
invited the Chicago defendants into his 
living room, just as he welcomed 
thousands of radicals into the college 
that weekend. Yet all the while he was 
working in the back room, orches-
trating the "events to make sure they 
stayed under his control. 

Throughout the turbulent spring of 
1970, 
Brewster continually ma-
neuvered . between leftwing students 
who denounced him as a symbol of 
Establishment authority and conser-
vative alumni who decried the liberal 
reforms he brought to Old Yale. 
Representatives of both sides took 
issue with Brewster's behavior during 
May Day. "We have endeavored to be 
good Yale men," wrote one member of 
the class of 1905. "Brewster is a better 
Black Panther than he is a Yale man 
... Yale, as always, should be for God 
and for Country and run by true Yale 
men." Meanwhile, Yippie leader Jerry 
Rubin made his case to a group 
gathered in Woolsey Hall. "Fuck 
Kingston Brewer," he explained. "The 
pressures were on all sides," said 
Professor Emeritus of Political Science 
Robert Lane, who stayed on campus 
for the weekend. 

But it was precisely during such 
challenging times, colleagues say, that 
Brewster was at his best. "There was 
something of the swashbuckler in 
him," said Professor of French Georges 
May, dean of the college during May 
Day. "Confrontation fit his style." 

Indeed, . from the beginning of his 


--- Page 17 ---

President Kingman Brewster managed to keep things calm. 
presidency, Brewster found himself in 
one duel after another. A liberal 
Republican and the scion of an old 
New England family, Brewster came 
to Yale as the protege of Yale President 
A. Whitney Griswold, a family friend. 
When Griswold died in 1963, Brewster 
became president. While the Old Blues 
expected him to live up to his patri-
cian 
image, 
he 
instead began 
to toss aside their most cherished 
traditions. 

Under Brewster's leadership, Yale 
dropped its coat-and-tie rule and 
widened its admissions policies. The 
University began actively recruiting 
minorities, admitted women as under-
graduates for the first time, and 
abandoned its favoritism toward prep-
school kids and sons of Yale graduates. 
"He had an astounding ability to turn 
off alumni," said Brooks Kelley, who 
wrote a history of Brewster's presi-
dency. While Brewster succeeded in 
making Yale 
more diverse, 
the 
University paid a price- in dollars. 
Upset 
because 
they 
thought the 
president had compromised Yale's 
integrity, or simply because their sons 
weren't being admitted, 
alumni 
stopped giving and the endowment 
suffered. Many saw Brewster as an 
upstart. "They were used to being 
treated in a certain way. Then there 
was a shift," Kelley said. "It seemed 
like a snub." 

Even as an undergraduate in the 
elite Yale of the 1930s, Brewster felt no 
tie to tradition for its own sake. When 
his peers dutifully lined up on the Old 
Campus on secret society tap night, 
Brewster hid in a closet in Davenport 
College to avoid being selected for 
Skull and Bones. The Bonesmen found 
him and tapped him anyway, but 
Brewster held 
to his egalitarian 
principles and refused to join. 

Brewster's readiness to defy tradition 
helped him to meet the challenges of 
the spring of 1970. "Because he didn't 
worship at the altar of Eli Yale, he was 
able to think of original things to do," 
Lane said. In his decision to open the 
University to the demonstrators, 
Brewster broke with the prevailing 
wisdom of the day. Administrators at 
Columbia, 
Corn"ell 
and numerous 
other universities adopted a hard line 
against protesters, while enraged stu-
dents torched buildings and rioted. 

Brewster and his special assistant 
Henry "Sam" Chauncey, Jr. thought it 
might make sense to try something 
different. Rather than chaining up 
Yale like a fortress, they decided to 
throw open the gates and allow the 
demonstrators to eat and sleep in the 
colleges as guests of the students. 
Chauncey said the decision reflected 
Brewster's pragmatic mind. "I don't 
want to disillusion anybody, but this 
wasn't some high and lofty principle, 
saying let's 
open our arms and 
welcome the opposition," .he said. 
"This was a pragmatic decision. If we 
didn't open the colleges, what would 
happen? The answer was it would 
probably cause a hell of a lot of 
trouble." After an April 15 rally in 
Cambridge, where demonstrators laid 
waste to Harvard Square, Chauncey, 
Brewster and others began to worry. 
"A lot of people left town because 
they felt we were being invaded by the 
Visigoths," May said. "The physical 
danger was real-of fire, of firearms." 

On April 27, a fire broke out in the 
Law School library, damaging $2000 
worth of books, and on May Day 
weekend the Panther headquarters 
burned down. Chauncey and Brewster 
figured that if thousands of demon-
strators came streaming toward Yale 
after the rally on the Green, de-
termined to get in, 
would 
probably succeed. To try to keep them 
out would only antagonize them. 

"The opening of the colleges was a 
lot easier a decision than you might 
imagine," Chauncey said. "Getting 
other people to buy into the decision 
was a lot harder." Conservative critics 
argued that opening up the University 
constituted nothing less than caving in 
to the radicals. Many of the college 
masters, moreover, were teluctant to 
let so many strangers into their college 
rooms and courtyards, fearing for their 
The New Journal/February 2, 1990 17 


--- Page 18 ---

students'- and their own- safety. 

Brewster the diplomat went to work. 
He spent hours on the telephone, over 
lunch at Mory's, and in his office, 
cajoling and convincing the masters 
and faculty into accepting his proposal. 
"He was a great politician," May said. 
"He knew that he could have his way as 
long as most of his constituents were 
going to support him." 

Slowly, 
Brewster and Chauncey 
wrung concessions out of the masters. 
They began by asking that students be 
allowed to host one guest apiece. After 
the masters agreed, they pushed it up 
to two. "We did things gradually," 
Chauncey said. 

In the weeks before May Day, 
Brewster circulated among the 
colleges, chatting with . students and 
faculty, hearing their concerns. "He 
would go to students' meetings in the 
colleges 
and 
be 
available 
for 
questions," Lane said. "He talked 
easily to the faculty. He was just 
generally responsive." Whether 
Brewster was making the rounds 
actually to hear student complaints or 
simply to give the impression of being 
a receptive president, he succeeded in 
winning a large following among stu-
dents and faculty alike. "He was a very 
attractive and charming guy in small 
groups," said Kelley. "He was good at 
defusing pent-up emotions." 

Still, tensions ran high that spring as 
the University became increasingly 
involved in the Black Panther trial. 
Black students and faculty called for 
Yale to donate money to the Panthers' 
defense. Brewster insisted the Uni-
versity could not take a political stance 
without undermining its academic 
mission. Yet at a faculty meeting on 
April 23, he said: "In spite of my 
insistence on the limits of my official 
capacity, I personally want to say that I 
am appalled and ashamed that things 
should have come to such a pass that I 
am skeptical of the ability of black 
revolutionaries to achieve a fair trial 
anywhere in the United States." Al-
though as president of Yale he could 
not involve himself in the issue, as a 
private citizen, he said, he sympa-
thized with the Panthers. 
18 The New JournaVFebruary 2, 1990 

Brewster intended the statement as a 
gesture of conciliation toward the 
Panther supporters. "For black faculty, 
it indicated a concern about what was 
important to them," Kelley said. "A lot 
of this was symbolism." Brewster said 
that although the sentiments he ex-
pressed were genuine, he was acting 
strategically as well. "This was for the 
purpose of trying . . . to unify the 
faculty," he said. As Chauncey put it, 
"He wanted to keep the place from 
falling apart." Still, not everyone was 
convinced. 

Dean Donald Kagan 
thought the statement was a "sell-out," 
radicals doubted Brewster's 
sincerity. 
,, 

"If the Establishment 
hates him, there must 
be something good 
about him." 

Chauncey, who had helped Brewster 
draft the speech, said that he had not 
expected the 
skeptici~m remark to 
attract so much attention. 
The 
national news media quickly picked it 
up, however, and no less a figure than 
the Vice-President of the United 
States, Spiro Agnew, entered the fray. 
In 
a 
tirade against Yale at 
Republican 
fundraising 
speech 
in 
Florida, Agnew denounced Brewster 
Yale with his characteristic 
demagogic zeal. 

He called the Panthers "an organi-
zation dedicated to criminal violence, 
anarchy and the destruction of the 
United States of America," and 
recommended, "it is time for the 
alumni of the fine old college to 
demand that it be headed by a more 
mature a nd reponsible person. 
President Brewster of Yale has also 
stated that he does not feel that black 
revolutionaries can get a fair trial 
within our judicial system. I do not feel 
that students of Yale University can get 
a fair impression of their country 
under the 
tutelage of Kingman 
Brewster." 

Agnew's 
philippic 
backfired. If 
anything, 
his denunciation 
rallied 
support for Brewster on campus. 
Students who otherwise attacked 
Brewster as a figure of authority and 
oppression now began to wonder if he 
was not on their side after all. 

Chauncey summarized the popular 
opinion: "If the establishment hates 
him, there must be something good 
about him." May said that Agnew's 
remarks also swung the moderates to 
Brewster's side. "Even people who did 
not support Brewster felt if you had to 
make a choice between the two of 
them, you were not going to choose the 
Vice-President." Brewster received one 
petition of support signed by 438 
professors and another signed by 3000 
students. 

A week and a half later, with May 
Day safely behind him and Yale still 
standi.ng, national attention focused on 
Brewster again. On May 
11 
brought a contingent of 1200 Yale 
students to Washington D.C. to lobby 
their congressmen to end the Vietnam 
War. Calling up senators and repre-
sentatives who had graduated from 
Yale, Brewster arranged for them to 
meet with the students. Fifteen buses 
left Phelps Gate at 2:30 a.m. carrying 
students to the capital. 

Meanwhile, 
Brewster, who had 
spoken out against the war before, flew 
down with Vance, trustee William 
Horowitz, Professors Edmund Mor-
gan and James Tobin, and four 
students in tow. Students broke down 
into groups according to their home 
states and visited with their repre-
sentatives; Brewster's group spent the 
day with nine congressmen, including 
two Republicans named Gerald Ford 
and George Bush. After the meeting 
Bush remarked that he had gotten a 
"full-court 
press from the Yale 
students." 

Again, Brewster's motives mystified 
many. Why would he stir up more 
controversy so soon after he had 
survived the greatest challenge of his



**Title: Kingman Brewster**
**Author: David Grunberg**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
tenure? First he backed a group of 
black revolutionaries and now he was 
broadcasting his opposition to the war 
in Vietnam. 
Whatever his moti-
vations, Brewster framed the trip as an 
example of Yale's unity; it showed that 
students, faculty, trustees and alumni 
could work together. 

This was the unity he had worked so 
carefully to preserve throughout the 
spring. During May Day, he said, 
Yale had negotiated a course between 
the attacks of the counterculture and of 
the government. "It did unify the 
institution," he said, "giving the 
institution quite a lot of pride in its 
accomplishment, not falling into the 
hands of either the Hoffmans and the 
Rubins or of the Mitchells and the 
Hoovers, both of whom really had a 
death wish for us." 

A month later in his commencement 
speech, Brewster saluted the gradu-
ating class for its relentlessness in 
pressing for change. "Important was 
your success in bestirring your elders 
to reconsider how Yale should be run," 
he said. He hailed also their wil-
lingness to work within the system and 
to remain ("by Hoffman-Rubin 
standards anyway") civil. The class of 
'70 reciprocated his praise with a 
standing ovation. Winning the stu-
dents' admiration by professing 
admiration for them was another 
typical Brewster move. "Brewster had 
a capacity to make whomever he was 
talking to feel 
that he genuinely 
respected them," Chauncey said. "And 
by doing that, he commanded respect." 

When Kingman Brewster died in 
November, 1988, mourners at his 
memorial service remembered him for 
his willingness to listen to his critics. 
Whether they be radical students or 
reactionary alumni, Brewster tried to 
make his attackers feel as though they 
were being heard- to have them be-
lieve he would respect their point of 
view, even if he disagreed. That was 
what he believed a university was all 
about . 
• 
David Grunbtrg, a· senior in Btrkeley 
Coll~ge, is Managing Editor of TN].


**Title: Adventures in Doonland**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Charlie "the Doon" Pillsbury (DC '72) 
sits behind a big oak table in the Fair 
Haven Masonic Temple. Occult sym-
bols and ornate marble carvings 
decorate the room. As he nibbles his 
lunch, the Doon talks softly about the 
"uncanny" quality of Garry Trudeau's 
cartoons .. "Garry was original. Some-
times so original he was describing 
things that hadn't happened yet, or 
that he didn't know had happened," he 
says, shifting in his chair. "That was 
his intuitive genius." Peering through a 
pair of round glasses, Pillsbury looks 
like the main character in Trudeau's 
Doonesbury strip. "It's true that they 
called me 'the Doon' in college," he 
explains. He acquired his nickname 
when he and Trudeau (DC '70) were in 
prep school 
together. 

"It was a 
boarding school term for people who 
do outlandish things," he says, "people 
who aren't afraid to make fools of 
themselves." 

The character Mike Doonesbury, 
whose name 
is 
an amalgam of 
"Pillsbury" and "the Doon," came into 
the world as an awkward, skinny 
freshman in the comic strip Bull Tales, 
which Trudeau drew for the Yale Daily 
News as an undergraduate. While 
B.D., 
the 
campus 
football 
hero, 

performed 
feats of exaggerated 
prowess on an imaginary field, his 
roommate Doonesbury lurked in the 
shadows at mixers, fumbling his way 
through a series of ill-fated attempts to 
pick up girls. Around 1969, the char-
acters Megaphone Mark and Zonker, 
also based on real people at Yale, 
"Garry was original. 
Sometimes so original 
he was describing 
things that hadn't 
happened yet." 
entered the picture. As radicals and 
freaks took over leading roles in the 
cartoon strip and at school, Mike 
Doonesbury developed into a figure of 
rationality and calm at the center of 
Trudeau's loony world. 

Doonesbury became nationally syndi-
cated right around the time Trudeau 
and his friends left college. The 
cartoonist continued to 
make up 
adventures 
for 
the characters he 
invented at Yale. Meanwhile, Charlie 
Pillsbury spent two years doing civil 
service work 
as 
a 
conscientious 
objector to the Vietnam War, before 
returning to New Haven to attend 
both Yale Law School and the Divinity 
School. Today he runs an or-ganization 
called Community Mediation out of 
his peculiar temple/office, helping to 
settle disputes among landlords, 
tenants and neighbors in Fair Haven. 

Doonesbury never imitated incidents 
from real life, Pillsbury says. None-
theless, 
there are some striking 
parallels. For instance, there is the case 
of the Reverend Scott Sloane-"the 
fighting young priest who can talk to 
the young"-a parody of both Yale's 
Reverend William Sloane Coffin and 
Trudeau's friend Scott McClennan, a 
Davenport senior. McClennan now 
serves as chaplain at Tufts University. 
"His life has taken almost the same 
path as the role in the strip," Pillsbury 
says. "That's why the strip has that sort 
of uncanny, intuitive side." 

Between 1968 and 1970, Trudeau 
documented the arrival of coeducation 
on campus, the draft lottery, the Black 
Panther·trial, and Kingman Brewster's 
battles with stodgy alumni and self-
righteous student protesters. "It was 
quite a surprise to those of us who 
thought he couldn't draw," says Mark 
Zanger (SM '70), the former leader of 
Yale's chapter of Students for a 
Democratic Society, and the inspi-
ration behind the character Mega-
phone Mark. "Originally it was all 
about football. So you had this sort of 
crudely drawn huddle, and then words 
came out of it. Now all of a sudden he 
was drawing, like, three quarters of a 
body, and people with hair. These 
were things we hadn't seen before." 

Trudeau refined his satirical style in 
his junior and senior years, poking fun 
at everyone from dumb jocks to SDS. 
While B.D. -modeled after Brian 
Dowling (BK '69)- and Zanger never 
actually met each other, Trudeau 
brought them together as players in the 
same off-beat drama. "His recollection 
of me is probably the same as mine of 
him, which is only through the comic 
strip," Dowling says of Zanger, who 
was in the class below him in school. 

Dowling remembers relatively little 
about the upheaval on campus in the 
late '60s. I wasn't really politically 
active," he says. "Basically, my 
extracurricular involvement was in 
athletics." In Dowling's senior year the 
biggest event of the season was Yale's 
29-29 tie with Harvard. Up until that 
day the star quarterback, much like his 
caricature, had won every game since 
the seventh grade. 

A recent issue of Sports Illustrated 
dubbed Dowling "the last All-
American"- an old-style football hero, 
who played in the twilight of an era 
when men were men, the game was 
The Game, and girls went to Vassar. 
Today, Dowling owns a closed-circuit 
televison company called Ivy 
Communications, which broadcasts 
small 
college 
contests 
to 
alumni. True to cartoon form, most of 
what he remembers about his under-
graduate years revolves around sports. 
"I think not only Yale but a lot of 
schools 
were 
lot different 20 
years ago," he says. "If you had one 
football game on T.V. on a weekend 
that was a lot. Now you have five or 
six." 


Zanger, on the other hand, vividly 
remembers the tiny guerrilla war he 
waged between 1968 and 1970 against 
the Establishment in general and Yale 
President Kingman Brewster in parti-
cular. Like Megaphone Mark, Zanger 
found himself continually thwarted by 
Brewster. "He would never do the 
stupid thing that would put everybody 
on our side. He wouldn't call the cops 
to smash our heads. He wouldn't let us 
into the building . . . I mean, I spent a 
lot of time trying to fathom this guy in 
order to be able to embarass and defeat 
him. And I really did come to admire 
his cleverness in that scenario." 

Sitting in his house in Boston, where 
he has worked as a journalist and a 
union organizer for the last 20 years, 
Zanger recalls the Movement and his 
obsession for taking over admini-
strative offices. "Building take-overs 
were it. They were the 195 7 Chevy of 
1970. You had to have one .. " 

In 1969 Bull Tales ran a series on




**Title: Megaphone Mark and Zonker Harris**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
R -0-T -C I Keep in' all 
the people in 
slavery /Whether 
you're black, white or 
brown/You're gonna 
be glad when we shut 
it down. 
Mark, with his megaphone, singing with the SDS jug band outside Yale's 
He came up with the tune, he says, 
while working at a construction job 
one summer . (Later, the Trudeau car-
toon depicted Megaphone Mark ·at-
tempting to enlighten the proletariat 
on a similar job, only to be beaten up 
by hardhats). 

As Zanger became increasingly radi-
cal, he found that he had less and less 
in common with his hippie peers. Mid-
way through his junior year, he cut his 
hair and stopped taking drugs. He 
started spending most of his time 
organizing groups like the Student 
Worker Alliance, 
and described 
himself as a committed Stalinist. 
"Basically, the political trip became 
much more hard core." 

By the time May Day rolled around, 
the whole campus had become in-
ROTC building. 
volved in a general student strike, and 
extremists like Zanger were squeezed 
out. "I kept proposing that we do 
building take-overs," he remembers. 
"But.! was constantly out-voted." 

Freshmen and sophomores who 
were interested in a looser counter-
cultural agenda broke away from the 
militant SDSers. "You can see the split 
in some of the propaganda of the 
time," he says. "In Garry Trudeau's 
cartoon, the character Megaphone 
Mark originally had a foot in both 
worlds. Then, right around that time, 
I think he introduced the ·character of 
Zonker Harris." 

Zonker's origin and identity are 
more mysterious than the former SDS 
chief lets on. While Zanger implies 
that the mellow freak is a spin-off of 
G~r ReADY MR. P1i!.EStOE.NT 
'"..¥1£1iAPHONE" l'f4RK 
' 
Sl..4CIC"Ml!VE~ /-14S A~RIVED 
0 
Ar Y~R I=Ro.Vr 
l-/ST€N C/P, IN THERE.' 
STOP THE WAR.' NO 
110R~ R.o.r.c. . .' ALL 
POW~R -ro THE 
WilY, 1-/t:.U.O, NARK.' 
WOC/LO YOU UKe 
TO C0/'1£ IN ANO 
.RAP" 
o 
OOOR!f 
PUPIL.'! 
I ETC..' 
Megaphone Mark, many Yalies have 
c.ontended otherwise. 
One of 
Trudeau's close friends associates 
Zonker with a crazy guy in Davenport 
College. "My impression-and Garry 
never discussed these things, you sort 
of drew your own conclusions- was 
that he was a guy in D-port named 
Richard Khalidi," says Timothy 
Bannon (SY '70), who co-edited the 
Yale R ecord humor magazine with 
Trudeau. "But no one really knows." 

Members of the society Saint Anthony 
Hall swear that their own David Wilk 
(CC '72) is tpe one and only Zonker. 
For sheer physical resemblance, 
Wilk makes a very convincing candi-
date. 

The 39-year-old poet, who 
retreated to the woods of Vermont for 
several years after graduation, still has 


David Wilk's friends say he is the original Zonker. 
long hair and lines around his eyes that 
look like parentheses. "I was interested 
in rock-n-roll and drugs and the 
cultural changes going on all over the 
country," Wilk says of his under-
graduate days. "For me, that was more 
important than SDS." Wilk was the 
literary program director of the 
National Endowment for the Arts until 
Reagan took office, when he decided 
he no longer fit in. For the last eight 
years he has owned a small New 
H aven company which distributes 
feminist books. 

"I think there were a few great places 
to be in the late '60s, and Yale was one 
of them. It knocks me out that I was 
here," says Wilk, a sophomore during 
May Day. "I got in right when they 
changed the admissions policies away 
from the Big-Man-on-Campus theory, 
and started letting in more unusual 
people. It was a miracle." 

Wilk describes Yale in 1970 with a 
soft, rhythmic intonation, sprinkling 
his sentences with the word s "I 
remember." "There was so much going 
on. I remember I was writing poetry 
and involved in a magazine. And there 
was a coffee house in the basement of 
the church next door to Calhoun, 
where, I remember, I used to go every 
weekend to hear music and poetry. 
There was an underground newspaper 
called The View from the Bottom, where I 
learned to do lay-out and design. And 
I remember there was an organic food 
store on Whalley, where we started a 
food co-op." 

Among the things Wilk remembers 
best about May Day are the huge vats 
of brown rice that bubbled all weekend 



**Doonesbury's Yale Years**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
on Old Campus. This, for him, 
marked an important cultural change. 
"It really had a major effect on the 
dining halls. May Day introduced 
them to brown rice and vegetables, 
and after that you could get vegetarian 
food," he says. 

Zanger, who in recent years has 
become a restaurant critic, has a very 
different recollection of that particular 
change. "They made us all eat granola 
for three days ... It was hideous. One 
of my major political gestures of the 
weekend was to take some New York 
radicals of my acquaintance out to 
locate a source of pastrami, so we could 
get some cholesterol." 

Today, both Zanger and Wilk find 
the split in Yale's youth movement sad. 
"It's a pity," said Zanger. "I mean, yet 
another of the fragmentations of that 
era. Had they stayed together, poli-
ticos like me would have been looser 
and more open to 
psychological 
change, and the hippies would have 
been more rooted and less silly." Wilk 
feels sorry for people who were too 
serious to experience the cultural 
awakening of the late '60s. "Losing 
yourself is a good thing. A lot of people 
didn't, and they missed out. They 
didn't go to Woodstock or Chicago. 
You can only do these things once." He 
worries that students now are so 
hindered by college loan debts that 
they don't have the same opportunity 
to travel and explore that he did. 

Despite the striking resemblance, 
Wilk denies his friends' claims that he 
is Zonker. "They think I am, but I 
think it was Mark Zanger. I never 
even knew Trudeau." But then, 
Zanger and B.D. barely knew Tru-
deau either. Both remember him as a 
quiet guy who slipped in and out of the 
Daily News office. As is his habit, the 
cartoonist himself politely declines to 
be interviewed. 

Timothy Bannon probably knew 
Trudeau best. While the rest of the 
campus was in a turmoil at the end of 
"Building take-overs 
were it. They were 
the 1957 Chevy of 
1970. You had to have 
one." 
the '60s, Bannon and Trudeau were 
having a great time matching wits over 
Dunkin' Donuts at 4 
a.m., and 
typesetting the Record by hand in 
Trudeau's dorm room. Bannon wrote, 
while Trudeau drew, and the two kept 
up a running satire of campus life and 
national politics. "We were early fun-
makers of the Nixon administration," 
Bannon recalls. 

In 1974, when Trudeau became a 
graduate student at the Yale School of 
Art and Bannon entered the law 
school, the two stayed in touch. "Nixon 
left the White House on August 9, 
1974, which was a Saturday. I remem-
ber pretty clearly because I 
got 
married that day," Bannon says. "We 
went to Mory's afterwards and Garry 
brought a television set. We all had 
dinner together and then over dessert 
we watched the President resign." 

Most of Trudeau's classmates scat-
tered after graduation. The class of 
1970 was pretty much broken up by 
the end of the year anyway, after the 
protests and the strike on campus. 
Bannon moved to a beach house in 
Connecticut to finish his senior essay 
and Pillsbury became deeply involved 
in the antiwar movement, travelling to 
other campuses around the country to 
participate in demonstrations. 

Even though they have gone on to 
pursue their separate lives, the people 
Trudeau observed at Yale remain 
connected through the Doonesbury strip. 
The characters they inspired continue 
to act out their political drama on the 
nation's funny pages, still magically, 
hilariously true to life. "A lot of times 
it's really more a case of life imitating 
art," the Doon says. He pauses to stare 
off across the room, and for a moment 
he gives the impression of one of those 
repeat panels in the comic strip, when 
nothing happens for a moment, before 
someone delivers the last line. 

• 
Ruth Conniff, a senior in Jonathan Edwards 
College, is Editor-in-chief of TNJ.


**Bobby Seale Still Fighting for Freedom**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

He does not sound much like a violent 
revolutionary. Occasionally he slips 
into radical rhetoric, when he is 
condemning Establishment politics. 
But Bobby Seale, former chairman of 
the Black Panther Party, generally 
seems like a liberal, thoughtful man 
committed to peaceful reform. "I never 
believed that I was outside the system," 
he says. "I was part and parcel of it to 
begin with. For me to drop out of the 
system I would have to drop out of the 
universe." 

Now in his early fifties, Seale is 
working toward a doctorate in African-
American Studies at Temple Univer-
26 The New JoumalfFebruary 2, 1990 
sity. "My thesis is tentatively titled 
'Cooperative Humanism,'" he says-a 
theory of coalition politics that offers to 
bring 
together diverse groups of 
oppressed people. Seale says he is 
dedicated to freeing society from 
"corporational, capitalist control of the 
state." 

In recent years, though, the former 
Panther chairman has had some direct 
involvement with capitalism himself. 
Recently, he published a cookbook 
entitled 
Barbecuing 
With 
Bobby, 
marketing his patented recipe for ribs. 
Seale is irked by charges people have 
leveled against him since the book's 
publication that he sold out his ideals. 
"I needed to have some cash flow to 
help me support social change in a 
grassroots way," he says. Royalties 
from his book were to finance a plan to 
renovate dilapidated buildings for the 
homeless in Philadelphia. 

His enthusiasm for the project, he 
claims, led him to overdraw on his 
advance for the cookbook; he was 
recently indicted in O h io for writing 
$7,500 in bad ch ecks. "But f ve cleared 
that up," he says. Meanwhile, the 
renovation program remains in the 
planning phase. "T he idea was to buy 
up these houses-there are 10 to


15 thousand abandoned row houses in 
Philadephia. We would get young 
blacks, Hispanics, and poor whites to 
renovate the houses for poor battered 
women with children." 

As he diSC\,lsses his plans for such 
benign social programs, it is easy to 
forget that in May, 1970, Bobby Seale 
was on trial for first-degree murder. 
Actually, murder was only the most 
serious of the charges that Seale faced. 
The state of Connecticut also accused 
him of kidnapping, conspiracy to 
murder and binding with criminal 
intent- all in connection with the 
murder of Alex Rackley, an alleged 
informer 
about 
the 
Panther 
movement. Seale claims he did not 
know about Rackley's death until one 
night in April, 1969, when he came to 
speak at Yale. After his speech, party 
member Ericka Huggins drove him to 
New Haven's Panther headquarters, 
he says, and left him in the car while 
she went inside. Seale dozed off. He 
woke when a party field marshal came 
to the car to tell him that another 
Panther, George Sams, had beaten 
someone up. "I said, 'What the fuck? 
George Sams isn't in the party. I 
kicked him out of the party eight 
months ago. He goes around beating 
people up, so I kicked his mother-
fucking ass out of the party.'" 

Sams was arrested for Rackley's 
murder and, according to Seale, 
agreed to testify that Seale ordered 
Rackley's death in exchange for a lesser 
sentence. "It was a set-up on the part of 
the federal government and the local 
state's attorney," Seale contends. 
"During the closing argument of the 
trial I went to sleep in the courtroom, it 
was so trumped up." 

In May, 1971 , all charges against 
Seale and Huggins, his co-defendant, 
were dismissed when the jury could not 
reach a verdict. "In effect, I won the 
case," Seale says. According to him, 
the jury actually reached a not-guilty 
verdict in his case, but was stymied 
when considering the charges against 
Huggins. 

Outside the courtroom, protesters 
who sided with Seale added to the 
Pressure of the trial. "Student support 
did not surprise me," Seale says. "I had 
spoken at Yale to 2,000 students. The 
Panthers used to circulate 200,000 
newspapers each week, and 50 percent 
of those were to college students." He 
was most impressed that the May Day 
demonstrations did not center exclu-
sively on the Panthers. "I love the idea 
of students who are multi-issued, not 
single-issued. Women's groups, 
African-American groups- they must 
understand that they are tied in 
together. 
That trial, 
massive 
support- all that solidified my belief in 
human liberation." 

In 1966, Seale and Huey Newton, 
then students at Merritt College in 
Oakland, 
California, 
founded the 
Black Panther Party, championing 
socialism as the only way to combat 
"I am still a political 
revolutionary. 
Revolution means to 
me to revolve the 
power back to the 
people." 
racism and human oppression. They 
also espoused violence when necessary 
for self-defense. "I do not run around 
advocating that every organization 
pick up some guns," Seale says. "As 
long as the power structure doesn't 
attack us, fine. But prior to the 
founding of the Black Panther Party, 
peaceful 
protesters- black, 
white, 
yellow, 
blue, 
purple and 
polka-
dot-were beaten." 

Seale claims responsibility for 
another, often forgotten tenet of the 
Panthers, the "Community Programs 
Concept." The party established 
service organizations such as health 
clinics and voter registration centers in 
several cities, and served free meals to 
inner-city schoolchildren. Seale cites 
the latter program as a model for the 
California school system's free break-
fast plan. "This is the character of the 
Black Panther Party that I tried to 
promote," he says. 

For a few years, such projects 
flourished, but by the mid-'70s the 
party had disintegrated because of rifts 
in its leadership, negative publicity 
and harassment from the FBI. Seale, 
however, remained in the public eye. 
In 1973 he ran for mayor of Oakland, 
hoping to earn 20 percent of the vote. 
Although few saw him as a serious 
political contender, he forced a runoff 
against the Republican incumbent. He 
eventually lost the final election, but in 
the process he won 43,719 votes to the 
incumbent's 77,476-only two years 
after the Rackley trial had closed. 

With the "Inter-Community Syner-
gic Project, Inc.," Seale has turned to 
more populist politics. "If I can show 
two youths how to make a profit 
roofing a house, they don't get into 
selling drugs," he says. 

Seale's emphasis on youth may stem 
from his experiences as a father. When 
he boasts about his children, he seems 
more 
settled 
than 
his 
passionate 
rhetoric suggests. 
He has three 
children, a daughter, 11, and two sons, 
18 and 23. "My oldest son, MLK 
Seale, is trying to do some rap music; 
he's trying to get people to understand 
what the '60s were about. We being 
adults, my wife and I were put off at 
first by rap music, but to hear him put 
positive content into it really blows our 
minds." 

Although African-American politics 
have changed over the years, Seale 
says his own goals are the same. "I am 
still 
a 
political revolutionary. 
Revolution means to me to revolve the 
power back to the people. We said, 'all 
power to all people'- power to the 
prisoners, power to the students. If it's 
women's rights, I stand for those 
rights. When we talk about black 
liberation, 
when 
we 
talk about 
women's liberation, we are talking 
about human liberation." 

Kathy Reich is a freshman 
1n Pierson 
College. 



**Title: Awaiting the Awakening**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Awaiting the Awakening 
.Black Students and Faculty Continue to VtiJrk for Reform 
Motoko Rich 
Black Panthers stirred up support among Yale students. 
28 The New Journal/February 2, 1990 
Walking back to his dorm room one 
night in the spring of 1970, William 
Farley (SM '72) worried he might get 
kicked out of school. He had just 
volunteered to represent the Black 
Student Alliance at Yale on the Strike 
Steering Committee, of which he was 
soon elected chairman. "I realized that 
I was in the process of making a 
decision whether I was going to throw 
away my whole Yale education. If 
things went badly, I would be one of 
those held to blame," he said. Many 
students, African Americans espe-
cially, feared consequences to their 
academic 
careers 
if they 
were 
perceived as too radical. "Being black 
wasn't going to help you if all hell 
broke loose," said Elwyn Lee (SY '71 ), 
an active member of the BSA Y. 
Although they couldn't guarantee 
anything, _the African-American 
faculty members saw it as their job to 
protect black undergraduates from 
academic disaster. "We had to make 
sure that the students were capable of 
going on and serving the struggle after 
their Yale days were over, and the only 
way we could assure that was to make 
sure that their academic careers 
remained intact," said Ray Nunn (BR 
'69), who worked for the dean's office 
in 1970. 

Today professors are more con-
cerned about restoring students' 
memories. Houston Baker Jr., Yale 
instructor of English in 1970, worries 
that black undergraduates have for-
gotten the activism of that era, that the 
memory of an event like May Day is 
fading fast. "I don't find on the part of 
many black students to whom I talk a 
clue about the '60s, that it existed, that 
it should be a legacy to them," said 
Baker, current director of the Black 
Studies Center at the University of 
Pennsylvania. "They are missing a 
great deal if they don't have some 
involvement with that world of Afro-
centric ideas, events and concerns." 
Back in 1970, though, students at 
Yale were thrust into that world, 
primarily because of the black faculty. 
"We viewed ourselves as being in the 
same situation as 
blacks in the 
commu~ity because of a historical 


---

community because of a historical 
legacy," said Roy Bryce-Laporte, the 
first 
director of Yale's African-
American Studies program. The 
events of the spring intensified these 
ties. "Blacks saw a special commitment 
to taking a stand because Bobby Seale 
was black," said Sheila Jackson, (BK 
'72) a leader in the BSAY. In addition 
to demanding a fair trial for the Pan-
thers, the African-American scholars 
pushed the University to pay more 
attention to blacks on the faculty, in 
the student body, in the curriculum, 
and in New H aven. 

"We saw ourselves as academic 
activists," said Baker. "We were inter-
ested in changing the character of 
scholarship so that it would empower 
the lives of black people in urban 
communities in America." A look 
around New Haven 20 years later 
shows that some of the May Day 
demands could bear repeating today. 
The predominantly black Dixwell and 
Hill neighborhoods that surround the 
campus are stagnating in poverty, and 
Yale still hasn't stopped expanding imo 
the city. 

When R alph Dawson (PC '71 }, 
former 
moderator of the BSAY, 
returned to the University a few years 
back, he found padlocks chained to 
many of the campus gates he had 
fought to open two decades ago. Back 
then, 
activists wan ted improved 
community relations so that the 
University wouldn't have to shut the 
neighborhood ou t. "There was a belief 
that change was possible in terms of 
making the University realize that one 
of the reasons you've got to put locks 
on gates is because of how you relate to 
the community," said Farley. 

At the 
same time, 
inside 
the 
University, Bryce-Laporte, who now 
teaches African-A't'"lerican Studies at 
Colgate U niversitt, introduced new 
academic goals. "Within the midst of 
this political situation, it seemed an 
opportune time to demand some 
leriousness toward the importance of 
Afro-American Studies as an academic 
discipline," he said. "Many of the 
developments in Afro-American 
Studies had their roots in the demands 
that were being made during that 
Kenneth Mills, assistant professor of philosophy, mulls over a speech 
during a meeting at Ingalls Rink. 
time." 

Yet the program that Bryce-Laporte 
worked so hard to build up is now 
slipping at Yale. With the past year's 
resignations of J ohn Blassingame and 
Edmund Gordon as chairmen of the 
program, African-American Studies at 
Yale has not overcome the conditions 
Bryce-Laporte and his colleagues tried 
to alleviate. Since it is still not a 
department in its own right, African-
American Studies does not have the 
power to grant tenure or appoint 
professors. Hirings in other disciplines 
do not always meet the needs of the 
program, and when Blassingame left, 
he criticized the University's weak 
commitment to affirmative action. 

The black faculty leveled similar 
criticisms 
in 
1970. 
To Baker, 
Brewster's 
celebrated 
liberal 
administration d id not seem progres-
sive at all. "I don't really feel that the 
administration, moving from Brewster 
on down, had any long-range plans 
with respect to dramatic increases in 
black faculty or black students," said 
Baker. Over the past 20 years, total 
numbers of blacks on the faculty have 
actually decreased by six percent, 
although the number of tenured blacks 
has increased by 41 percent. Student 
ratios have risen by only three percent. 

While battling to increase their 
numbers in the student body, African 
Americans clashed among themselves. 
Farley remembers when a group of 
black freshmen marched up to Presi-
dent Brewster's house to demand a 
minority recruitment program. They 
intercepted by some 
black 
upperclassmen. "What are you guys 
doing? 
You're going to ruin 
everything. This isn't how things are 
done 
here," 
Farley 
recalled 
upperclassmen saying. The freshmen 
responded defiantly. "You guys are 
Uncle Toms and we're going to take 



Yale's black students and the Black 
Panthers also came head to head. 
Some felt that attending college meant 
the b lack students were betraying their 
race. "I think that black faculty and 
students on a campus situated right in 
the middle of a traditionally black 
neighborhood feel the guilt of being 
chosen, while a large percentage of the 
population they represent are sub-
jected to genocidal conditions," said 
Baker. "The Panthers thought they 
could exploit the guilt the blacks felt for 
being there," said Nunn. Fervent 
screaming matches erupted belween 
the Panthers and the leaders of the 
BSAY over what kinds of demands 
they could . reasonably make of the 
University. "We were constantly 
taking a lot of heat and verbal abuse 
from the Black Panther party and had 
to translate that into palatable 
demands for the University," said 
Farley. 

At meetings where students argued 
with the Panthers over strike docu-
ments, Bryce-Laporte and Kenneth 
Mills, assistant professor of philos-
ophy, often sat in the back of the room. 
The two men formed the pillars of 
Yale's black community. "Mills was the 
spiritual leader of the student 
demonstrations," Farley recalled. The 
dynamic, 
intellectual Marxist ap-
peared at every major event that 
spring, riveting audiences with his 
electric speeches. "If there was a key 
player on the African-American black 
front , it was certainly Ken Mills," said 
Baker. Though chiefly described as a 
revolutionary dedicated to political 
reform, Mills was not without his 
inconsistencies. "His stated positions 
were ones of radicalism," said Nunn. 
"But the man did drive his girlfriend's 
Ferrari around New Haven." Mills 
died in 1983 of Chron's disease. 

Although not always as visible as 
Mills, Baker came out as a vehement 
spokesman against the Osborne 
Committee, set up to study May Day 
under the chairmanship of black 
professor Ernest Osborne. African-
American faculty saw the committee as 
a blatant example of tokenism, and 
Baker wrote an angry letter to the Yale 
Daily News saying so. The committee 
was dissolved soon after the letter 
appeared. 

"These committees are endlessly 
formed," said Baker. 
Even now, 
committees seem to be the favored 
bureaucratic gambit among University 
presidents. Last year Benno Schmidt 
established the Rodin Committee to 
study minority hiring. In a 1989 
report, the group exhorted the 
University to establish target numbers 
for people of color on the faculty. 
Schmidt finally responded to the report 
in JanuarY., agreeing to strengthen 
minority recruiting at Yale. 

In the spirit of excitement and 
defiance of 1970, the black faculty met 
almost daily, furiously collaborating 
on a .resolution to present at the 
general faculty meeting of April 23. 
Baker and two colleagues hurriedly 
pounded out a draft on a typewriter 
one afternoon. They kept the reso-
lution secret, purposely not circulating 
any copies of it at the general faculty 
meeting. "It was not the intention to 
ask for the input of the whole faculty," 
said Nunn. "We wanted to minimize 
having it diluted." 

On April 23, the African-American 
faculty sat together in Sprague Hall. 
Even when 
augmented 
by 
administrators, graduate students, and 
community leaders, they could barely 
fill the front row. In their resolution, 
they called for the suspension of all 
academic functions of the University 
and a moratorium on all Yale plans for 
land expansion. "These were out-
rageous resolutions, by all standards of 
the University," Baker said. Bryce-
Laporte revealed the document, 
asserting that the black faculty would 
accept no modifications. At one point 
during the meeting, Mills threatened 
that if the faculty did not yield to the 
blacks' demands, they would walk out. 
Finally,· the faculty 
settled for a 



**Title: On the Eve of Destruction**
**Author: Daniel Panner**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As throngs of chanting protesters packed the New Haven Green, Edward Thomas Veal (BK '69) founder and first chairman of the Tory Party, sought refuge at a friend's beach house. 
"We took along a fair quantity of food and beer, and sat around and waited calmly for the end of the world." Not all campus conservatives thought that May Day heralded the. crumbling of civilization, but some, like Veal, sensed that the Yale they had known, the Yale of genteel debate and green cups at Mory's, had given way. It is impossible to say what percentage of the Yale population opposed the changes that swept the University that spring, for if these people shared any one trait, it was a lack of outspokenness.

Throughout the late '60s, before anyone at Yale had heard of the New Haven Nine, conservatives were overwhelmed by the liberalism dominant on campus. Much of the time they seemed to wage a campaign just to keep people from taking things too seriously. As new committees broke out all over the University, one right-wing group's constitution prohibited it from convening a meeting. "There was a good deal of humor that pervaded all of these organizations, particularly the POR," said Edward Young (GRD'71), who chaired the party in the fall of 1970. "We used to have debates that would go on until four in the morning on topics such as, 'Resolved, that God does and should exist.'"

John Taft (CC '72), who wrote the book May Day at Yale, and now works as a historian, writer and film maker in Washington, D.C., believes that the conservatives' small numbers and earlier setbacks such as the abolition of R.O.T.C. created "a fundamental discouragement that was not related to the May Day events."

If campus conservatives despaired, they could turn to the Yale Daily News for moral and rhetorical support. Editorial Page Editor Douglas Hallett OE '71) set the paper's tone early on with a number of columns opposing the University shut-down. On)y after the shootings at Kent State did the more liberal editors succeed in overriding· Hallett and endorsing the national student strike.

"The faculty were sheep. They were sheep for the entire period."

"There was a feeling that I had swung the paper too far to the right, and they didn't want that to be the permanent national image of the Yale Daily News," said Hallett, who practices law in Los Angeles. Radical students marched on the News building to protest Hallett's writings, and Black Panther Doug Miranda vilified him before a crowd in Woolsey Hall, exhorting the audience to "silence the pigs." Hallett was not deterred. "There was a feeling of exhilaration at the opportunity to have first principles tested as they were during that period."

Despite his writings, Hallett held other Yale conservatives in contempt. "They assumed a sort of pose of wanting to be persecuted. They were very affected, they adopted upper-class English mannensms. They really weren't players on the scene at all, except as objects of ridicule or avoidance," he said.

But in the opinion of the man who chaired the POR during May Day, Yale's overbearing liberalism forced conservative students into a corner, where some say they remain to this day. "Campus opinion isolated people who were right of center. It drove them to those extremes," said Charles Tharp (BK '72), now treasurer of Oberlin College. Tharp eventuaJiy quit the party when he saw it becoming "too narrow or even fascist in tone." Taft agrees that only the most entrenched right-wingers could hold their ground.
"To be socially and politically conservative in those days, you had to be extreme, very set in your ways."

While conservative students long felt pressure from their liberal peers, they had never seen anything like that spring. "Until May Day it was not as serious and not as threatening," said Young, now an attorney at a Boston law firm. The Yale Student Senate meeting of April 20 in which the group voted to support the strike, demonstrated that campus radicals could generate what one observer called "an atmosphere of terror."

Before the meeting began, people who had no connection to the University filled the back rows of the hall to heckle and jeer at the senators. The combination of the visitors' shouting and the vitriolic speeches delivered by radical speakers intimidated even strike supporters. The following year, a student told an interviewer, "I talked to some of the members, and they admitted that they voted out of terror."

After the meeting, Berkeley Master


---

**Title:  (Untitled)**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 31**

• 
Motoko Rich, a junior in Branford College, 
is Managing Editor of TNJ.


**Kelly's Cobbler**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Kelly's Cobbler 
Shoe Repair Services 
••• 
at 
Kelly House Plaza 
Corner of Crown 
& Temple 
fast service 
reasonable prices 
449 Sackett Point Ad. 
North Haven, CT 06473 
(203) 288-1697 
FAX (203) 288·0379 
Kathryn Boris 
Sales Representative


**Kurt Schmoke: Reform, not Revolution**
**Author: Jamie Slaughter**
**Page number(s): 36**

Kurt Schmoke 
Reform ~ not Revolution 
Jamie Slaughter 
Kurt L. Schmoke (DC '71 ), mayor of 
Baltimore and trustee of the Yale Cor-
poration, laughs about it in retrospect. 
Sitting in a red leather chair in his City 
Hall office, Schmoke recalls the day he 
burst into a closed faculty meeting in 
Sprague Hall, bullhorn in hand. No 
student before him had ever inter-
rupted an official convocation of the 
Yale College faculty . 

Two thousand students had 
gathered outside, waiting to hear if the 
faculty was going to endorse the stu-
dent strike. Inside, more than 400 pro-
fessors packed the room. All was quiet 
as Schmoke strode up to the podium. 
He spoke only a few sentences: "There 
are a great number of students who are 
confused and many who are fright-
ened. They don't know what to think. 
You are our teachers. You are the peo-
ple we respect. We look to you for 
guidance and moral leadership. On 
behalf of my fellow students, I beg you 
to give it to us." 

Schmoke's mildness surprised the 
teachers, who were accustomed to the 
angry rhetoric of radical students and 
Black Panthers. "I wanted to say to the 
faculty, many of whom felt confused 
and besieged themselves, that most of 
the students still wanted some leader-
ship," Schmoke recalls. His audience 
responded with a standing ovation. A 
few minutes later, they voted to sup-
port the strike. Schmoke's speech 
helped to unify the campus and avoid 
the type of generational rift that crip-
pled other colleges at the time. 

As a varsity football and lacrosse 
player, an activist in Dwight Hall and 
a member of several administrative 
committees, Schmoke was a natural 
choice to represent the student body 
before the faculty. "There was no big 
man on campus, but I had just been 
elected secretary of. the class, so at least 
a few hundred people in my class knew 
who I was," he says. 

Schmoke went on to study at Oxford 
on a Rhodes Scholarship, and earned a 
law degree from Harvard in 1976. In 
1977, President Jimmy Carter ap-
36 The New Journal/February 2, 1990 
pointed him assistant director of the 
White House Domestic Policy Staff, 
and in 1987 he was elected mayor of 
Baltimore. Last year he joined the Yale 
Corporation. 

The distance he has traveled from 
student activist to Corporation mem-
ber sometimes surprises even 
Schmoke. "I think about it from time 
to time and I smile. There is a certain 
irony to it." For the most part, 
however, Schmoke has led a consistent 
career; he has always, for one thing, 
played the role of conciliator. 

When striking students marched up 
Hillhouse Avenue to the President's 
house with a list of five demands, 
Schmoke persuaded them to post the 
list on a tree instead of nailing it to 
Kingman Brewster's front door. "I was 
fairly moderate politically," Schmoke 
says, "and so I was not a big supporter 
of some of the more radical factions. 
But I also wanted to see changes. I 
guess I wanted to see reform, not 
revolution." 

Schmoke served on the monitoring 
committee, a student-faculty body that 
acted as a liaison among the police, the 
Black Panther Party and University of-
ficials. "As a part of the committee I 
went everywhere," he says. "I met with 
people in little back alleys and dark 
rooms as well as some of the big brass 
of the University in the Corporation 
room." 

In 1988, Schmoke made headlines as 
the first prominent public official to 
suggest that the United States consider 
legalizing drugs. As President Bush 
pours more and more money into his 
anti-drug war, a few voices including 



**Title: Schmoke, William F. Buckley, Jr. and former Secretary of State George Shultz are calling for decriminalization.**
**Author: Jamie Slaughter**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Schmoke, William F. Buckley, Jr. and 
former Secretary of State George 
Shultz are calling for decriminaliza-
tion. "My second or third year as 
state's attorney I must have been pros-
ecuting about 12,000 drug cases a year 
and things weren't getting better. So I 
started reading about Prohibition and 
saw some rough analogies to what was 
going on now," he says. "We are being 
about as successful in achieving a 
drug-free America as we were in 
achieving an alcohol-free America dur-
ing the '20s." 

Schmoke's reasoning on the drug 
issue is consistent with another feature 
of his career: his concern with issues 
that directly affect the community 
around him. As a public official, he 
stresses his efforts to involve all 
elements of society in fighting urban 
"If you're concerned 
about social issues 
don't look beyond 
your own backyard." 
problems. "The job of the mayor is to 
care about people in the community," 
he says. 

H e argues that the government 
should handle drug addicts as people to 
be treated rather than as a monolithic 
threat to society. "My view is better 
described as medicalization rather than 
legalization," Schmoke says. If drugs 
were made legal, government could 
regulate their use, and keep them out 
of the hands of children. Users could 
also have the assurance of sterile 
needles. 

"The connection between 
AIDS and drug abuse made me think 
you've got to approach this thing as a 
public health issue," he says. 

Legalizing drugs, Schmoke says, 
would also eradicate much of the crime 
that 
is 
destroying urban neigh-
borhoods. "The thing that really got 
rne thinking about legalization," he 
says, "is that a friend of mine, a police 
officer, was shot in a drug deal that 
went bad. H e had a body wire on, so I 
had to listen to him die, and then make 
a decision on whether to prosecute the 
guy who killed him for the death penal-
ty. That was a very emotional, very 
difficult time for me, and I started 
thinking about the problem in a dif-
ferent way." 

Other programs the mayor of Balti-
more has devised include a joint effort 
with business leaders to guarantee a 
job or college financial aid to any high 
school graduate with a 95 percent at-
tendance record. He has also targeted 
adult illiteracy. One of Schmoke's pet 
projects has been the development of a 
new day-care facility, which opened 
last October. To raise the $665,000 
to finance the center, Schmoke 
has 
tried to foster cooperation between the 
public and private sectors. 

Schmoke actually began his work 
with day care when he was at Yale. It 
was his idea to include employee child 
care among the five demands of the 
May Day Strike Steering Commitee. 
Throughout 1969, Schmoke and Mary 
Pearl (DC '72) had struggled to 
establish a day-care center, and they 
saw May Day as an appropriate time 
to revive the issue. "What Mary Pearl 
and some other students and I tried to 
say was that if you're all upset and con-
cerned about social issues, don't look 
beyond your own backyard. There are 
things happening right here on Yale 
campus that should have your atten-
tion. That's why we were so insistent 
about the day-care issue." Schmoke 
and Pearl were able to get Davenport 
College designated as a child-care area 
over the May Day weekend and even-
tually helped establish the Calvin Hill 
Day Care Center. 

As a new member of the Corpora-
tion, Schmoke will have the chance 
once again to address issues that affect 
the community in and around Yale. 
Meanwhile, his backyard continues to 
grow. 
• 
Jamie Slaughter is a junior in jonathan 
Edwards College. 


**Title: Suspicion and Paranoia The Secrets of the May Day Security Machine**
**Author: Jamie Workman**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

A 30-year-old man with glasses and 
light thinning hair stepped out of the 
city heat into the air-conditioned lobby 
of the Park Plaza Hotel. He ap-
proached the desk, asked the attendant 
for a room, and checked in under a 
false name. None of the employees 
noticed, but someone else did. 

Unbeknownst to this man, every move 
he made was monitored by a hidden 
video camera located behind the 
counter. The camera relayed the scene 
to a screen several blocks away, at the 
New Haven Police Station. There, an 
officer zeroed in on the man's face, and 
then on the guest book, and called over 
his boss, Chief of Police James F. 
Ahern. The two quickly determined 
the 
stranger's true 
identity, 
and 
suspected that he registered under a 
false name. 

"He called me up one day and said 
there's a guy named John Dean that 
just checked in," said Sam Chauncey, 
operational head of University acti-
vities during the Panther trial protests. 
John Dean was at that time the 
38 The New Journal/February 2, 1990 
assistant to Attorney General John 
Mitchell, and would soon move into 
the White House as counsel for 
President Richard Nixon. Opinions 
vary on what exactly Dean was doing 
in New Haven in the weeks leading up 
to 
Black Panther 
trial 
demonstrations. In his book, Blind 
Ambition, Dean briefly states that while 
he was in jail after the Watergate 
scandal, he met a guard he had spoken 
with several years earlier while on 
assignment near Yale. "He and I had 
shot the bull one afternoon back in 
1970 when I was covering a pro-Bobby 
Seale demonstration for the Justice 
Department," Dean wrote. 

"That's just a lie," said Chauncey. 
"He was not the official representative 
from the Justice Department. We were 
already working with someone else 
who was appointed for that task." Dean 
never contacted the police or the Yale 
administration the entire time he was 
in New Haven. This made men like 
Yale President Kingman Brewster and 
Chauncey wary, for it was common 
knowledge that Nixon hated Brewster 
and his liberal university admini-
stration. 

Chauncey and Brewster filed a claim 
under the Freedom of Information Act 
to look at the Justice Department 
documents on them. "Just about every 
one of them was whited out for reasons 
of national security-why our acti-
vities were considered a matter of 
national security I'll never know- but 
it was clear that M itchell had given 
Dean some instructions," Chauncey 
said. 

Two events took place while Dean 
was in New Haven. One was the bomb 
that blew up in Ingalls Rink at the end of 
a rock concert given by a group from the 
Divinity School. The second was the 
burning of the "Peace Building," which 
was the radicals' headquarters on the 
corner of Elm and Church Streets. The 
police declared that the fire was 
deliberately set, but no one was ever 
arrested or prosecuted for the crime. 

Both acts were evidently the work of 
professionals, for while the campus


--- Page 39 ---

police found many other pipe bombs, 
Molotov Cocktails and homemade 
devices around New Haven, only the 
one at Ingalls Rink worked well 
enough to actually explode. And since 
both acts targeted campus radicals, 
some suspected th~ destruction was the · 
work of provocateurs, designed to raise 
tensions and incite a riot. 

"I think that's classic anti-police 
paranoia," said J. Daniel Sagarin, 
assistant U.S. attorney at the time. 
There is no telling whether federal 
officials were involved in either of the 
two incidents. But in New Haven, as 
in the rest of the country, police, 
leftists and University administrators 
had good reason to distrust each other. 

"There was an immense amount of 
anger, and the belief was common 
among radicals in those days that 
nothing 
short of violence would 
represent progress," said Bill 
Chickering (BK '70), a leader of the 
unarmed marshals who worked con-
stantly to keep the peace without the 
use of force. 

In the weeks preceding the protests, 
Chauncey stayed in continuous contact 
with James Ahern and his brother 
Chief Inspector Steven Ahern, and 
was kept well informed on potential 
threats to the peace. The Ahern 
brothers earned national recognition 
for their ability to keep control of the 
situation. Communication and infor-
mation, rather than the use of force, 
were the elements that James Ahern 
emphasized. "It was a well-planned 
wheel, run very smoothly, and I was 
just one of the spokes," said former 
Yale University Police Chief Louis 
Cappiello. 

Seven years passed before the public 
learned about the inner workings of the 
Ahern brothers' security machine. The 
May Day demonstrations marked the 
peak of an illegal wiretapping oper-
ation which involved the New Haven 
Police, the Southern New England 
Telephone Company, and members of 
the FBI who targeted "gamblers and 
left-wing militants" as 
subversive 
individuals. Included among the 
names of those tapped were nine 
attorneys, three Yale College masters, 
several other Yale teachers and 
clergymen, and assorted students, 
Panthers, and radicals living in New 
Haven. 

Eventually, 
1,251 people 
successfully filed suit and collected 
damages from the City of New Haven, 
SNET and the Ahern brothers. 

It began as early as 1958, when 
Richard Sulman, an electrical engi-
neering major at Yale, took out an 
advertisement selling electronic 
listening devices. Steve Ahern visited 
Sulman's apartment several days later. 
"He seemed very interested in the 
technology of eavesdropping," Sulman 
told a Police Board hearing in 1977. 
Sulman, a wiretap expert, testified that 
he sold Ahern two devices at their first 
meeting, and several more over the 
next few years. The court never deter-
"Jim Ahern's primary 
concern was to keep 
New Haven from 
turning into a 
bloodbath." 
mined when the New Haven Police 
began using illegal wiretaps to monitor 
conversations, but the high point of the 
operations-in 1969-1970, when New 
Haven became a center for antiwar 
activity- coincided with the tenures of 
the Aherns. 

The police ran their wiretap 
operation from a room on the fourth 
floor of the Powell Building on Church 
Street, and later expanded to a larger 
building on Court Street during the 
Aherns' tenure. The closets and rooms 
were fuled with various machines like 
the "pen registers" which recorded any 
phone numbers dialed, and other ma-
chines plugged into the switchboard by 
an employee at SNET. "There was a 
person within the phone company who 
did supply this service. Of course, for 
payment," Deputy Inspector Vincent 
DeRosa, who participated in the 
wiretaps, 
said at a 
police board 
hearing. 

In the course of the hearings, it 
emerged that former Mayor Biagio 
DiLieto, then chief of police, told 
Sergeant Francis DeGrand to dump 
three wiretap machines into the 
harbor. 
Instead, DeGrand bashed 
them with a hammer in his basement, 
and left them there incapacitated. The 
battered machines were introduced in 
1977 as prime evidence of the oper-
ations. 

Sergeant Walter P. O'Conner, an 
intelligence officer until the summer of 
1969, testified that in 1969 or 1970 the 
telephone wiretaps were expanded 
from gambling and organized crime 
figures to radical political groups. His 
partner, Sergeant Pasquale Carrieri, 
added that several FBI agents became 
involved in the operation after it 
moved to the Powell Building. These 
agents were identified as Raymond 
Connally, William Glossa and Theo-
dore Gunderson. 

Carrieri declines to discuss the case 
t~ay. "I've thought about it a great 
deal. It was a painful time for all of us, 
and I would not like to talk about it," 
he said. "You're asking the wrong guy, 
pal," said former Sergeant Robert 
Lillis, in response to questions about 
the wiretap disclosures. Coming in the 
wake of Watergate, the city probe that 
investigated the police wiretaps in 1977 
provoked popular outrage. But in 
1970, many citizens were grateful to 
the police for maintaining order during 
a frightening time, and few asked 
questions about their methods. "In 
those days, the practice of wiretapping 
was honored by a wink," said Sagarin, 
who represented the Ahern brothers. 

"You know, people don't remember 
that violence was prevented as a direct 
result of the wiretaps," Sagarin said. 
"[The wiretaps] had been used to pre-
vent at least one bombing. They forget 
that there was a murder which was 
unresolved. And they forget that some 
of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit were the 
families of convicted bank robbers." 

Chauncey agrees with Sagarin's analy-
sis that "Jim Ahern's primary concern 
The New JoumaUFebruarv 2. 1990 39 



**Title: The Price of Peace**
**Author: James Workman**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
was to keep New Haven from turning 
into a bloodbath." 

The disclosures of the entire wiretap 
operation not only cost the City of New 
Haven and the police department great 
sums of money (the phone company 
paid $150,000 in damages, the Ahern 
brothers $35,000, and the City of New 
Haven $1.85 million), it also hurt the 
esteem and reputation of the same 
forces which had been praised so 
highly several years before. When the 
police board asked Inspector Nicolas 
Pastore why he and others involved 
had not reported the wiretapping, he 
replied, "Keep in mind I was working 
for a person !Steve Ahern) who had a 
supercop image . . . probably com-
mended 100 times or more. His 
brother was a nationally acclaimed 
police chief. Who was I? I did what I 
thought was best for me. I ran." 

The irony is that while the indi-
viduals involved knew they were acting 
against the law, they did not know they 
could have done the same thing legally. 
By simply requesting a warrant from a 
federal judge, they could have run the 
entire operation with immunity. "It 
wasn't a case of law and order running 
amuck," said Sagarin, "but simply of 
well-intentioned cops uneducated in 
the letter of the law." According to the 
former assistant U.S. attorney, far 
more wiretaps are employed today 
than during the Nixon Presidency. 
"You've got telephones legally tapped 
for up to 300 days at a time. Not one 
warrant for a wiretap has been refused 
by a judge in the past decade," Sagarin 
said. 

To their credit, the Ahern brothers 
succeeded where almost every other 
city police force failed. There were no 
lives lost, no serious injuries, and the 
damage to Yale and New Haven 
buildings was minimal. But there are 
still those who question the price paid 
for such success. Did New Haven 
unknowingly exchange open violent
4{) The New Journal/February 2, 1990 
DiLieto told a 
sargeant to dump 
three wiretap 
machines in the 
harbor. 
confrontation for a Big Brother state? 

In addition to the covert audio-
visual devices used 
to monitor 
subversive activity, the New Haven 
Police used questionable methods in 
apprehending their suspects. "Ahern 
was able to get through FBI sources 
descriptions and photographs of these 
people and he did in fact- I'm not sure 
if it's legal or illegal- arrest them all as 
they came into town," said Chauncey. 
"Every time he saw one, checking into 
a hotel or whatnot, he would pick 'em 
up and put 'em in jail and 't'en days 
later they'd be let out and it was all 
over." 

Sam Chauncey, Kingman Brewster's 
special assistant during May Day, had 
the all-important job of making sure 
Yale survived. Providing security, 
monitoring radical activity, devising 
strategy for protecting the Univer-
sity-all this fell under Chauncey's 
purview. To ensure that events would 
not get out of control, Chauncey said, 
all sorts of preparations preceded May 
Day, many of them top secret. 

Chauncey and New Haven Police 
Chief James Ahem were particularly 
concerned about agitators coming in 
from out of town for the sole purpose of 
tearing down Yale. -These were people 
who were not part of any i~ 
group like the Panthers," he said. 
"'These were people who in those days 
just roamed from town to town causing 
trouble." 

Particularly worrisome was a radical 
splinter group of Students for a Demo-
cratic Society called Weatherman. 
Weatherman had broken from the 
national student organization to 
pursue an agenda of terrorism and 
violence. In late April, Chauncey and 
Brewster drove out to an empty field in 
Western Massachusetts to meet with 
Archibald Cox, then an administrator 
at Harvard and Jater special pi'OICC\l&Or 
in the Watergate hearings. Cox. who 
Although Sagarin does not believe 
that the federal authorities were behind 
the Ingalls Rink bombing, he said that 
Jim Ahern was worried that the federal 
government wanted the New Haven 
demonstrations to get out of hand. 
Ahern made sure to keep the National 
Guard out of the center of town. "He 
was very concerned about the possi-
bility that federal troops would 
intentionally precipitate violence like 
that at Kent State," said Sagarin. 

In the weeks preceding the May Day 
demonstrations in 1970, the assistant 
to Attorney General John Mitchell was 
sent with mysterious orders to monitor 
had confronted Weatherman in Cam-
bridge weeks earlier, gave Chauncey 
plaotographa and infonnation about the 
group, including the news that they 
wore chartering two buses from Boston 
to New Haven for the rally. 

First, Chauncey and Ahem went to 
Greyhound and took out an insurance 
policy on the two buses. "Then," said 
Chauncey, when Friday arrived, •we : 
replaced the driven with two state 
police officers." The Weathermen 
boarded their buses and set otT down 
1 
the Maasachusetts Turnpike. 
Fol-
, 
lowing Ahem's plan, Chauncey said, 
"'The lead bus pulled over as though ' 
~thins had gone wrong, and the 
MICOnd bus pulkd over behind it. And 
the _two driven huddled underneath 
the hood. AD of a sudden a police car 
came along and picked the two up and 
just left. the Weathermen right there on 
~
the Mass Turnpike. They picked a 
place where you could walk five miles , 
in any direction and still not get 
anywhere. They all got out and went 
left and right and were never seen 
again, as far as New Haven was 
concerned.• 


leftist radicals. This man was in turn 
illegally monitored by the local police. 
The local police were acting under the 
covert supervision of members from 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation. 
The head of the FBI was taking orders 
from his boss, who also hap pened to be 
the attorney general. And the attorney 
general's boss, Richard N ixon, hated 
Kingman Brewster. 

Paranoia struck deep. 

But it was a paranoia that had no 
loyalties to the left or to the right. 
Those who wanted to keep order were 
j ust as worried as those who wanted to 
overthrow order. Even the brave 
armband-wearing student marshals, 
who stepped between the National 
Guard's wall of fixed bayonets and the 
thousands of rock-throwing demon-
strators, were not sure if they could 
trust one another. "There was the 
belief that demonstrations in and of 
themselves were useless, the normal 
political process was useless. W ith all 
the rage at the time was the belief that 
the only way to bring about the Red 
Revolution was the radicalization of all 
these sweet liberal arts students," said 
Chickering. "There was a theory at the 
time that you wanted the cops to break 
heads. T hrough police intervention 
you would radicalize new soldiers for 
the revolutionary movement. I didn't 
agree with that." 

C ops did not break heads, and the 
revolution never got underway in New 
Haven. But today the far-reaching 
impact of legalized wiretaps still helps 
protect 
us against criminals who 
threaten society. Although we no 
longer live in an era of upheaval and 
confron tation, it is possible that we 
would feel more comfortable if we did . 
• 
Jamu Workman z.s a semor rn Timothy 
Dwight College. 


**Title: A Shared History**
**Author: Gary Dauphin**
**Page number(s): 42**

Essay/Gary Dauphin 
A Shared History 
Few of the students who hang out at 
the African-American Cultural Center 
know much about May Day. A turn-
over every four years and short 
memories make even 
the 
anti-
aparthied movement of the mid-1980s 
seem like a myth. Faculty have their 
own problems to deal with, and 
reminding aggressively upwardly 
mobile college students of the glory 
days of campus radicalism is not high 
on their agenda. May Day, 1970 starts 
to become a lost piece of history in 
need of recovering, an enterprise 
usually reserved for articles produced 
and consumed by white students. 

This is ironic considering the extent 
to which Yale's African American 
community was implicated in what 
occurred in New !iaven that school 
year of 1969-1970."The series of events 
which climaxed during the night-time 
riots on the weekend of May 1 , 1970 
revolved around us, our particularly 
African-American bodies and their 
right to be. If contemporary black 
Yalies want the visceral and lasting 
marker of their connection to that 
particular moment in history, they 
need do nothing more than look at 
themselves in the mirror. Even among 
the gothic towers of Yale University, 
we are and remain African-American 
people, in the exact same way that 
Alex Rackley was an African-Ameri-
can person, at least until he was 
reduced to a bullet-ridden corpse, 
photographed 
and 
displayed, 
central exhibit in a murder case. 

For African-Americans aware of 
their own history, the truism of the 
mirror carries with it other lessons, one 
of the more important being that 
blackness works out to mean that 
supposedly inalienable rights are 
actually alienable. The charges of 
physical and psychological abuse 
leveled against the police by the 14 
Black Panther Party prisoners, thrown 
in jail as a result of Rackley's murder, 
were indications of the brutality of 
white supremacy in America. 

If, as is commonly alleged, the 
Federal government hired another 
African-American to murder Rackley, 
+2 The New Journal/February 2, 1990 
anti-racist struggle had been inverted, 
directed inward instead of outward at 
racist structures. 

Black-on-black 
violence always serves the interests of 
racism, as it leaves the work of 
destroying African-Americans in our 
own hands. By 1970, the fate intended 
for African-American radicals was so 
obvious that on the first weekend of 
May, thousands 
gathered to show 
their outrage as well as their support 
for the Black Panther Party. 

The truth of the matter, which 
wasn't at all discernable on May 1, was 
that this gathering was the Party's 
proverbial swan-song. May, 1970 was 
too early to gauge the long term impact 
of the Rackley murder, both upon the 
internal politics of the Party and the 
Party's relationship to its constituents. 
Instead of marking the demise of a 
movement, it seemed to mark quite the 
opposite. The weekend saw a broad 
coalition of progressive forces coming 
together, and was a moment when 
Yale's student body, black and white, 
seemed solid in their support of the 
Party. If the picnic on the Green wasn't 
quite the revolution everyone was 
talking about, at least it seemed at the 
time that it wouldn't be long before 
something happened. 

A few things did. The first is that it 
started to become obvious that the war 
in Vietnam could not continue any 
longer. As this hope became a reality, 
widespread white interest in radical 
movements collapsed. The next thing 
that happened is that the early victories 
of the civil rights movement, specifi· 
cally school desegregation efforts and 
effective affirmative action policies, 
produced a generation of African· 
American college students who passed 
through a system that seemed to work 
unusually 
well 
for them. 
This 
gradually caused a general shift in 
African-American students' attitudes. 
More securely bourgeois than their 
predecessors, 
these students could 
afford 
more 
reformist 
political 
postures, that is when they 
ev~n 
thought about politics. T hose who sull 
harbored more radical tendencies were 
as ineffective 
in confronting the 
systemic face of racism as their more 
conservative classmates. These 
students 
usually 
waged 
forms of 
warfare which 
were specificallY 
academic and of little 
use to 
communities outside of the universitY· 
The developments of the last 20 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
I I Ill 
act1v1sts, whose rank and ftle was 
composed of the young men facing the 
~~~;:;;.,.1(1 draft and 
the possibility of 
participating in the war in Vietnam. 
It ill i 
• II II 
Ill II 
These movements shared similar 
rhetorical postures, borrowing freely 
from each other, from the rhetoric of 
Marxism as well as from the emerging 
rhetoric of feminism, the third major 
progressive movement of the era. 

Their major point of divergence was 
that once the war ended, so did the 
essential moral and political problem 
which had so agitated white college 
students, while racism existed 
- ---.,_., ... L-1,__ unabated in America as it has for 
years were definitely not the future 
envisioned at May Day. 
When 
Douglas Miranda, a group leader of 
the New Haven Chapter of the Black 
Panther Pa~ty, addressed a crowd of 
Yale students with "There's no reason 
why the bulldog and the panther can't 
get together," there was both a plea 
and a plan in his words. The plea was 
for Yale to support the pressure the 
Party and its supporters were bringing 
to bear upon the State of Connecticut 
to free the prisoners. The plan was that 
this enterprise was one step along a 
journey, the pathway of which was to 
be shared by both black and white 
radicals. 

The problem with this plan is that 
the campus Miranda stood before was 
one caught in the grip of two distinct 
progressive movements. On one hand 
stood Miranda, the rest of the Black 
Panther Party, the Black Student 
Alliance at Yale and a large cross-
section of New Haven's African-
American population. Their move-
ment was an 
historically specific 
moment in the the ongoing struggle for 
African-Americans' rights and safety 
!he struggle against white supremacy 
In America, the long term thread of 
which connects Malcolm X to So-
journer Truth. Their partners in this 
great enterprise were Yale's antiwar 
nearly 500 years. 

Also there was the inherent contra-
diction presented by an antiwar 
posture that called for some measure of 
pacifism, not to mention that many 
antiwar activists were simply 
frightened. The first lesson which the 
Black Panther Party taught was that it 
was a human right to defend oneself 
against violence, with violence, to the 
point of killing one's antagonist. Given 
such different cardinal principles, it is 
clear that the relationship between 
white student radicals and Mrican-
Americans was in 
many ways 
contrived. 

To suggest- nearly 
20 years 
later- that this union of diverse 
interests and peoples was actually a 
union of convenience or even a mere 
flirtation is not meant as an attack 
upon the ideals and commitment of 
those whites who supported the Party. 
It is an analysis of what Mrican-
American students consider to be the 
obvious: white students on American 
college campuses, including Yale's, are 
apathetic if not outright antagonistic to 
the interests and agendas of their 
African-American classmates. If 
anyone wants proof of this they need 
only 
examine 
the 
well-publicized 
instances of racist violence and 
harassment at 
University of 
Massaschusets at Amherst, at 
Columbia University, at the Uni-
versity of Michigan at Ann Arbor, and 
so on throughout the Reagan Era, on 
down the list to Mother Yale. 

As if these dynamics did not pose 
enough problems for African-Ameri-
can student progressivism, there is the 
already mentioned concern that what 
passes for student activism in the 
contemporary context is a far cry from 
what it once was. The changes in the 
class position of incoming students is a 
piece of the explanation. Another 
major piece is the increasing social and 
political distance between African-
American students at Yale and their 
counterparts in the New Haven 
community. 

Once upon a time, when the Black 
Panther Party or any New Haven 
resident spoke of police violence, black 
Yalies knew what they were talking 
about. One of the first things to 
happen in the fall of 1969 was a party 
thrown by the recently opened Afro-
American Cultural Center. 
No 
descriptive record of the party itself 
exists today, but one can easily 
imagine: Think bell bottoms and Sly 
and the Family Stone, exchange fade 
cuts for Afros and you get the picture. 
The party was advertised in New 
Haven by means both official and 
informal, and much like a House party 
today it attracted a fair number of New 
Haven's college-age youth. One can't 
be sure if this was the first time this had 
ever happened but what happened 
next is a familiar occurence in New 
Haven's African-American commu-
nities: The New Haven police arrived 
in force and started arresting any black 
men they could fmd. 

This was not unusual on the border 
between Yale and New Haven. The 
unusual aspect of this particular night 
was that the hosts of the 111en being 
shoved into police vans, the BSA Y, 
protested the treatment of their guests 
as any good host would. The police 
went about their business, ignoring the 
BSA Y's arguments that no one at the 
center had calJed them, that there was 
a party going on, that people would 
come to parties. A rock was thrown, 
and a police riot eruptc:d. A large 
group of about 70- a few students and 
many more New Haven residents-
- ran away from the center en masse, 
throwing objects at their uniformed 
pursuers. By morning there had been 
50 arrests, 
including the BSA Y's 
moderator. 

What makes this incident note-
worthy is that in 1990 it simply 
wouldn't happen. New Haven resi-
dents still come to parties at the 
Cultural Center (it's cheaper than a 
club) but not only do Yalies usually 
steer clear of the locals, but Yale 
regulations stipulate that a Yale police 
officer must be present. The theory is 
that the University's private security 
force is needed to protect Yale property 
and Yale students. The practice is that 
when a Yale police officer catches a 
student doing something relatively 
stupid -while not felonious-the worst 
that could happen is that he or she is 
taken home and reported to a resi-
dential college dean. New Haven 
residents are handed over to New 
Haven police, usually to the relief of 
their Yale counterparts. 

Our historical ties 
must be 
acknowledged, 
excavated and 
nurtured. 
The current situation is the result of 
real class differences within the 
African-American community, but it 
is also a symptom of the African-
American students' willingness to let 
their class 
position 
under white 
supremacy dictate their relationship to 
their own community. Although few 
grew up in New Haven and fewer 
remain after they graduate, 
our 
connection to the local community for 
the four years that we are here is vitally 
important. It is a relationship based 
not only upon the empirical reality of 
common race, interest and culture, but 
also upon a host of historical ties, such 
as May Day. Such ties must be ac-
knowledged, excavated and nurtured. 
Without them all of our struggles here 
in the University, whatever they may 
be, become isolated, parochial andjust 
that much harder. 



**Title: An Interview with John Hersey**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale did change in several very impor-
tant ways, but I wish it had held on to 
some of the very important com-
mittments it made at the time. 
TNJ: How do you mean? 
Hersey: I think that promises were 
made, or understood anyhow, in 1970 
that have not really been fulfilled. Yale 
has worked out a comfortable peace 
with the establishment of the city, in 
terms of accomodating its buildings-
developing stores underneath its new 
constructions and so forth. But the 
whole issue of Yale's relationship to 
blacks in New Haven, to minorities in 
general and to the poor has not been 
faced. It has not been faced by society 
at large. I think that we've just 
postponed these issues, issues that are 
going to have to be dealt with at some 
time in the future. 


TNJ: So are you disappointed in the 
political climate on campus now? 
Hersey: Well, there's no point in being 
disappointed. The best you can do is 
hope that some of what's happening in 
the world will restore a sense of public 
service among students. 


TNJ: What about the question of the 
role of the University-what do you 
think of the argument that it was · a 
travesty that Yale cancelled exams and 
suspended academic work for the 
Bobby Seale trial, that the academic 
environment was politicized and com-
promised? 
Hersey: That, I think, is a rational 
conservative argument. But if you take 
as a much more extreme example of 
what was happening then what hap-
pened in Beijing last spring and sum-
mer, and what's happened in Eastern 
Europe recently, you see that univer-
sity students were out front on the need 
for change. And they had to suspend 
the real meaning of their lives in 
education for what seemed more im-
portant. I don't mean to argue that 
May Day had that kind of dimension 
to it, but reducing the scale, that's the 
issue. There were questions that had to 
be dealt with, and for a short time 
anyhow, it was appropriate that Yale 
suspend its main function. 


TNJ: It seems like there was a very 
strange mix of attitudes at the time. To 
some degree, here were these privi-
leged children enjoying themselves in 
all the excitement, and at the same 
time these were very serious issues they 
were confronting. D id you think that a 
46 The New Journal/February 2, 1990 
lot of the students were not that 
serious? 
Hersey: I would say probably a ma-
jority of students were not engaged, 
and a great many left on May Day and 
had disdain for what was going on. 
The issue of whether these were kids 
playing games of politics- that's a little 
bit cynical, because if you take the 
position that people with education 
and who are engaged in serious profes-
sions and teach should refrain from 
playing games of politics, what do you 
have? 


TNJ: Maybe it's unfair to pick on your 
book in hindsight, but what you wrote 
about students' contempt for careerism 
seems ironic now-"If American bus-
iness could persuade young people ... 
that careers in business would enable 
them to relate and to help, then they 
would flock into business. Until that 
day, they will flock into every available 
avenue of social service, politics, 
reform and revolution." What has hap-
pened to that shining generation? 
Hersey: Well, I think a surprising 
·number of the students who . were 
radicals turned around. But they didn't 
become yuppies. They went into law 
and medicine, and are practicing as 
very serious and positive contributing 
citizens. They have managed to bring 
about some important social changes 
quietly, in a piecemeal fashion. 


TNJ: What about when you were a 
student here? People talk a lot about 
the shift away from the Old Yale in the 
1960s. Do you think things have come 
full circle? 
Hersey: 
Well, · no. Things have 
changed a great deal. When I was a 
student it was at the end of the Depres-
sion, and I was a scholarship student. 
Then you had to figure out how you 
were going to earn three meals a day 
when you graduated. After I grad-
uated I lived on a dollar a day for food 
for a couple of years. It was not an easy 
time. It was the time of Roosevelt, and 
so there was a tremendous sense of the 
kind of social responsibility that I've 
been mourning the want of, at this 
moment, in the air. 


TNJ: Was there the same sense that 
students had a special role, that they 
were the bearers of idealism or radi-
calism then? 
Hersey: There was not much radi-
calism at Yale, I must say. Yale was a 
very conservative place. We had maids 
who cleaned up our rooms. We had 
printed menus in the dining rooms 
with choices for dinner, served to us by 
waitresses. It was a privileged world, 
no question. Most of us were going on 
to take responsible 
positions 
in 
business and government. But as I said 
there was also a sense of social respon-
sibility. I think that students went out 
and lived up to the challenges of the 
time, in small and indirect ways 
through the lives that they led. 


TNJ: So in that sense, at least, the 
Yale student's role has not changed. 
Hersey: Yes, although the state of 
mind of greed is so deep-seated now 
that any politician who even murmurs 
that he may have to raise taxes is im· 
mediately defeated. Roosevelt would 
have said to us that we owed our 
country some kind of retribution that 
would justify raising taxes. And that 
seems to be the thing that you would 
hope students would see today, and 
begin to do something about in small 
ways: 


TNJ: You mean by going into social 
service work? 
Her·sey: Yes, and even through the 
professions- through teaching and law 
and medicine and business itself. 
Business has been the most irresponsi· 
bl(! in terms of ruthlessness and greed. 
There is lots of room for change in the 
climate of the business community. 


TNJ: If you were going to write 
another letter to the alumni now, 
would you bring up different issues? 
Hersey: Well, as I said earlier, I think 
that our society has postponed dealing 
with the issues of poverty and race. 
And I would still express the wish that 
our students could be thinking seri· 
ously about those problems and how to 
deal with them in our society. 

And then, I think that the way 
change comes in our country is in 
terms of an accumulation of effort, not 
always dramatic or violent, on the part 
of a large number of people. So I think 
that there has to be a change in the 
state of mind. And here's where the 
University could help, in giving stu· 
dents a sense of history, for example. I 
think most students, certainly in the 
time when I was at Yale, graduated 
without knowing much about history. 
We've got to have more of a sense of 
where we've come from and where we 
might go. 
• 



New Haven 
Brevving CoiTipany 
Announces 
Connecticut Ale 
New Haven Brewing Con1pany 
4-58 Grand Avenue 
New Haven, Connecticut o6 5 r 3 
772-BREW



NIFU 
P.O. BOX 1890, 155 WHITNEY AV 
, NEW HAVEN, CT 06508 203-432-6076 
FOUNDED 1890 

