Publication date: April 14, 2000
Volume: 32
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Shruti Adhar
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Alan Schompf
- MANAGING EDITORS: jessica Bulman, Anya Kamnetz
- DESIGNER: Tatiana Jitkoff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Judy Miller
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Silpa Pichma
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Willie Grace
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Ronen Givony, Eric Rothfelder
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGERS: Makiko Harunari, Blake Wilson


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- FEATURES
- Marketplace of Ideas - Judy Miller and Patrick Casey Pitts
- Keeping the Faith - Andy Cowdery
- Corr Convictions - Daniel Kurtz-Phelan
- A Clean Well-Lighted Space - Jessica Bulman
- Minority Rules - Carl Hungerford
- One Shot Wonder - Ronen Givony
- Fare-ing Badly - Sydney Leavens
- STANDARDS
- Points of Departure
- Euap Carolina On My Mind - Anya Kamtnetz
- The Critical Ape: Can't Buy Me Love - Eric Rothfelder
- reviewing The Logic of Happiness in Market Democracies by Robert E. Lane
- Eadaota Clock Tease - Blake Wilson



**Title: Marketplace of Ideas**
**Author: Judy Miller and Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 8**
Who holds the keys to Yale's intellectual property?


**Title: Keeping the Faith**
**Author: Andy Cowdery**
**Page number(s): 12**
Reverend Eric Smith combines worship and work to revitalize New Haven.


**Title: Corr Convictions**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 14**
From abandoned buildings to the Ivory Tower, Antlers Corr redefines resistance.


**Title: A Clean Well-Lighted Space**
**Author: Jessica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 18**
photos and essay by Jessica Bulman


**Title: Minority Rules**
**Author: Carl Hungerford**
**Page number(s): 21**


**Title: One Shot Wonder**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 24**
How Joseph Heller learned to stop worrying and love the bomb.


**Title: Fare-ing Badly**
**Author: Sydney Leavens**
**Page number(s): 30**
While Metro Taxi stalls, the meter's ticking.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Anya Kamtnetz, Eric Rothfelder, Blake Wilson**
**Page number(s):  (unspecified)**
Euap Carolina On My Mind by Anya Kamtnetz

The Critical Ape: Can't Buy Me Love by Eric Rothfelder

reviewing The Logic of Happiness in Market Democracies by Robert E. Lane

Eadaota Clock Tease by Blake Wilson


**Title: I Shot Andy Cowdery**
**Author: Andy Cowdery**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I Shot Andy Cowdery 
!t isn't.~d. to t~ll when a ~e of ~ 
. 
"Assassins" is played by 
Assassms 
1s gomg on. Sqwrt 
· 
,.,. 
many, taken seriously by some, 
guns bulge out of pockets, 
,.. ~ ',-:,;!(;_ ;. _-. 
and drives several half-insane 
and unusual numbers of 
'"' ~ ,.., · 
before they are killed by the one 
paranoid, jittery folks 
~ 
person who escalates che game to 
walk in large groups, 
•• 
1 r ~r:. ,,_ ..... ,... ........ , such a level that it no longer seems 
looking nervously over 
··._ · 
··· ~ 
like a game at all. "It's just a squirt 
their shoulders every few 
"·~ -.... 
/1 
gun," skeptics often say. "How scri-
~ .. 
seconds. Doors that have been 
"'. 
/) 
ous could it be?" Serious enough to 
unlocked all year are now bolted, 
:_, · Jj.• 
interrupt a midterm co kill a target at 
and when knocked upon they arc • 
his desk, reverse the peephole in a tar-
answered with a suspicious eye at the 
get's suite door co spy for the perfect 
peephole. The door opens a quick crack 
moment, and rappel out a fourth-Aoor 
as a plastic pistol jabs out, and a voice from 
window co kill a target while he sleeps. 
behind the peephole asks, "Are you alone?" 
Games that run through Spring Break are 
Laugh at their fear if you want, but if 
now put on hold unril classes resume 
a stranger had popped out of your closet 
because several years ago a srudcnr drove ro 
with a gun the night before, you might be 
the home of his target over break and shoe 
afraid coo. The object of the game, after all, 
him. Yalies are nothing if not determined. 
is to shoot people. "Assassins" starts when 
Dedicated players know when you eat and 
organizers give players the name of their 
where you study, and have scoured out a 
first target, to be "killed" with a water or 
nice blind spot behind the door in LC 
dart gun. If the players kill their first carger, 
where your Econ section meets. They wiU 
their next assignment becomes the old tar-
spend hours and days just co find a fool-
gee of the player they have just killed. The 
proof way to lci11 you, and rhey will not be 
pattern continues until there is no one left 
satisfied until you are dead. 
to shoot. Until players either win the game 
Sound scary? Ir should. "Assassins" has 
or die, they are always after someone, and 
the ability to transform peaceful, ~wear-
someone is always after them. Usually the 
shop-protesting college students inco 
rules declare chat players cannot be killed 
scheming, methodical killers. The game 
while walking in a group of three or more, 
would be more lighthearted if it meant 
and dining halls, classes, bathrooms, and 
only a campus full of crazies squirting 
bedrooms are sometimes declared "safe 
madly at each other, but chat is too childish 
zones" so players can perform some normal 
for us. We want something real. Thus there 
daily functions without fear of death by 
are no massive water brawls, and the seri-
squirt gun. 
ous players do not prowl the streets hap-
Most players are f.t.irly nonchalant. 
ha.zardly in hopes that their target will walk 
They walk to class alone, eat their meals at 
by. That kind of thinking doesn't get you 
regular hours, sleep well at night, and are 
into Yale. Players lay low, sit in their rooms 
usually eliminated in the first few days by 
or any other "safe zone" they can find, and 
the serious players, who carry their guns 
sift their minds for that foolproof plan 
everywhere, suspect everyone, and modify 
until it hits them. Then they lull. 
their plans to fit the schedule of their tar-
There are many people who hate 
gets and avoid their own assassins. This 
"Assassirls,. and all it represents, and they 
means skipping classes, eating and srudyirtg 
have a point. In such violent times we must 
at random times and locations, and leaving 
question the appropriateness of games that 
buildings a different way each time. If done 
trivialize death with fake guns. One year 
properly, players often survive a month or 
ago 15 students were killed by real guns at 
more. 
Columbine High School. Recently a man 
4 
in New York was killed by .p real bullet~ 
while reaching for his wallet. Perhaps \\C 
don't need any more killing games. l.ast 
year, a Brown student was killed while 
playing this "game." She wa~ running away 
from her assassin, and dashed right in from 
of a bus. "It's just a squire gun" indeed. 
Dean Betty Trachtenberg is reluctam 
ro outlaw "Assru.sins," but nor for an) love 
of the game. "I think ['Ass;mins'] is terri· 
ble," she said. "We arc living in such an 
atmosphere of violence that, morally, the 
campus can find other ways to entertain 
itscl£ There are a lot of better things to do 
than run around cha,ing people with 
gun~." 
Berty T. may well be right. Only dap 
into my ~Assass"ns" career, I got rircd ol 
shooting nice people and comrandy look· 
ing over my shoulder. I had become anoth· 
er kAssassins" victim. I handed in my gun 
-Andy ( ou•dl'


**Title: It Takes 10,000 Villages**
**Author: Rebecca Tuhus-Dubrow**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

It Takes 1o,ooo Villages 
The intoxicating scent and gentle mm 
spill out of the store and onro the streCJ 
luring you in. And once rou enter li:t 
Thousand Villages, the coly crafts score ot 
Chapel Street, it's difficult to leave. Tht 
atmosphere is scrent• .md warm, compkct 
with complimcncary t·oiTcc .wd anim~ 
crackers. 

And the cornucopi.t of han! 
made items-from colorful scarves ar 
meticulously carved wooden boxes to je 
elry and musical insrrumems---<ontribuctl 
to the impre<>sion of visiting someont! 
bt.-amifully adorn~J. if dunernl, humc. 

If the score is a home, I i" Rider, ~ 
manager, seems to be in. ~.oomfona~ 
inhabitant. A Roman Catholic with a m 
ter's degree in moral theolog}• 
R1c:. 
declare,. "People are my fir~t conce;n 
That's the essential dilTcrcnce between bd' 
~tore and a mo;e corporate place like ~ 
One Imports. ·ren Thousand Village\ 11J 
nonprofit organization who,c go.tl, ,1ccord-
ing to its mission statement, is "to provide 
vital, fair income to Third World people by 
selling their handicrafts and telling their 
stories in North America." 

The organization was started 53 years 
ago by a Mennonite teacher named Ruth 
Edna Byler. At first, Byler operated a one-
woman business, selling Puerto Rican 
embroidery out of her basement and the 
trunk of her car. Now, half a century 
later, 
the 
Mennonite 
Central 
Committee runs the chain, operating 
210 stores across North America, 
including local branches in New j6 
Haven, West Hartford, Cambridge, 
Northampton, Providence, Boston, 
and Princeton. In recent years, the 
rate of growth has increased with an 
average of two new stores opening 
every year, rypically run by two paid 
employees and an assortment of volun-
teers. 

The organization works with arti-
sans in 35 countries in Africa, Asia, and 
Central and South America who 
would otherwise be unemployed or 
underemployed. (Although, as Rider 
admits, they fall about nine thousand 
seven hundred villages short of their 
name's claim, give or take a few villages). 
They work in co-ops, where each member 
follows a piece to its conclusion, sometimes 
bringing it home to finish. Each co-op spe-
cializes in a craft: a Bangladeshi co-op 
makes paper from weeds and water 
hyacinths, for example, and Kenyan work-
ers carve furniture and boxes out of wood. 
Then the co-ops sell their products to Ten 
Thousand Villages and other fair trade 
organizations, for a fair price, regardless of 
whether the merchandise ultimately sells to 
a customer. 

The 
co-ops 
are 
founded 
by 
Mennonites, Roman Catholics or other 
concerned people, but are gradually taken 
over by the artisans themselves. Rider had 
just returned from a month-long trip to 
South America when I first met her, and 
she related how an Ecuadoran co-op start-
ed by an Italian priest had entirely emerged 
from dependence on him and on any reli-
gious affiliation. Rider is adamant jn her.· 
insistence that she perceived "no sense· of 
patronization or 'big brother."' It is hard to 
deny the chariry aspect of Ten Thousand 
Villages, but Rider does her best to down-
play it; she prefers to think of it as a part-
nership between the artisans and her non-
profit. In any case, it's much more along 
the lines of teaching a man to fish than 
giving him a fish. The artisans she met 
were largely autonomous, asking 
advice only about what would sell in 
North America. This kind of prac-
tical exchange about marketing 
strategies is essential to the system's 
sustainabiliry. She acknowledges that 
"one of the dangers of do-gooders, 
goody-two-shoes, is that yo• have a 
good idea, and you don't think it 
through." The thriving suc:Cess of her 
organization's stores attests that .this 
pitfall is one that the "goody-two-
shoes" at Ten Thousand Vtllages have 
avoided. 

Of all the organization's good 
ideas, one of the most integral is to 
extend their business beyond com-
merce. 
The artisans want to give 
something back to their communities, and 
they have embarked on projects such as 
trash collecting, road work and reforesta-
cion in their communities. And on the 
North American end of the business, this 
ambition is manifested on several levels. 
Rider has done radio interviews, given a 
drumming presentation to toddlers at the 
Early Learning Center on Blake Street, and 
taught fifth and seventh graders in 
Cheshire about global economics. 
She 
claims, "Any organization that wants me to 
give a presentation, I will." More impor-
tantly, this attitude of communiry extends 
to the day-to-day functioning of the enter-
prise. "You will never see a panhandler 
outside our store." Rider says-not because 
they shoo the panhandlers away but 
because the store invites them in. "They 
come in and gc 
coffee." In little ways like these, the store i
re-inventing the concept of community o:
every scale, at once locally and globally. 
-Rebecca Tuhus-Dubro~


6 
!Uo,~t.-1 
R.S1N:l: Gvcg e• ~ 
. . 
Comprehensive Eye Exams 
() 
2! 
5PECTOR 
0 
~~§. 
E 
.~ .~-
Contact Lenses 
;;><; 
·w 
., 
s· 
c: 
oct 
EYE CARE 
Fashion Eyewear 
lol.l 
EMPORIUM 
I ll 
"' 
Featuring the finest seledion of better eyewear 
Q2 
2 
Jl. 
at guaranteed lowest prices. 
lol.l "' 
~q;,"!. ~o-'< 
1st Place 
.¢>~ 
<>o.~~ 
'P~~tlJ) 
c~ 
(? 
~~ 
o_,.. 
Q ! 
0 ~ 
% -
Eye Examination 
NowS25 
r 
Eye Examinarion on premises by Dr. Lany Specror, Optomnrist. Includes glaucoma & cuaract tescing. 
Daily Wear Contact Lenses 
$124 Complete 
a> 
Includes eye rum, fircing. fullow..up care. Specialty lenses available at an addicional cost. 
:I 
' 


Salon Rimage 
1209 Chapel St. 562-HAIR(4247) 
One Block up from the Art School 
• 
Save 15% off all Hair Services 
with Yale ID 
A Yale Tradition lor 
Over 24 Years


Entrees featuring flavors from 
around the world: 
Mexican, Italian, 
Mediterranean, Oriental-
homemade, fresh and delicious! 
Exciting Salads and hearty 
soups. Nutritious juices and 
smoothies made to order. 
Scrumptious desserts, gourmet 
coffees and more ... 


**Title: Skulls Give Up Their Bones**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Skulls Give Up Their Bones 
Before he was a legacy in national politiel
George W Bush inherited a spot in an eve•
more mandarin cloister of elite powe1 
Skull and Bones. Luckily for Bush oppo
nents everywhere, this ominous fact ha
not escaped 
the ever-vigilant Gar
Trudeau, who dedicated a week a 
"Doonsbury'' in March to lampoonin 
Bones's zany attempts to grease W's path t•
the White House. 

W ith all the talk of secrecy, it may b 
fitting that Trudeau kept his own societ
involvement a secret. Rumor has it he him
self turned down a spot in Skull and Bone
in order co join Scroll and Key in 197c
This particular choice of clandestine insti
tution may make sense given Trudeau
bohemian ambitions. Keys has a smalle1
more liberal political roster than Bones; th
best Trudeau's fellows ever did in politic
was probably Dean Acheson, whose biogra
phy, you may recall, W lied about havin 
read; or possibly Sargent Shri'!'er, Kenned
spouse and father-in-law to forme
Presidential 
Fitness 
Adviser 
Arnol•
Schwarzeneggac. Bones tends to get stodg 
insiders like David Gergen; Keys tends t• 
get 
stodgy 
muckrakers 
like 
Bol 
Woodward. Given this dichotomy, mayb
Trudeau's point was not that secret societie
ace bad for American democracy, but tha
Skull and Bones in particular is bad fo 
American democracy. 

Director Rob Cohen advances a simi 
lac thesis in the film The Skulls. Lik•
Trudeau, Cohen went tO Yale, and lik•
Trudeau, Cohen's society expertise come: 
from his year in a non-Bones societ)
(which one remains a secret). And, i. 
Trudeau's characters are better drawn 
Cohen's ace yet more conspiratorial. In The 
Skulls, an improbably cast Craig T. Nelson 
(of "Coach" fame) coaches an all-whi~t
team of Yale men in the game of eli~t
power, branding them with skulls, secredy 
funneling thousands into their banlc 
accounts, setting them up with centerfold



**Title: Skull and Bones**
**Author: Ian Blatchford**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
8
0
models, and getting them inco law school,
all to the rousing chorus of "A Skull before
any other!" Everything's going smoothly
for these elite boys until someone takes this
advice too seriously, and a non-Skull dies.
According to this view, the other societies
are just rich; the Skulls alone are truly evil.
But are Cohen and Trudeau right? Do
those of us in the non-secret world have
something to fear from the likes of
Alderman Julio Gonzalez?

If money is the measure of political
power, then it is probably worth noting
that seven out of 14 of W's Bones class-
mares have donated relatively large sums to
his campaign. And although one out of two
may not sound like great participation, the
Bones's percentage of campaign concribu-
cors is more than 50 times larger than the
national percentage. What is more, five of
the seven donated the maximum amount:
SIOOO. These were: Donald Etra, G.
Gregory Gallico, Robert McCallum Jr,
Muhammad Ahmad Saleh, and Brinkley
Thorne--lawyers, doctors, and business-
men. Britton Kolar gave $200, and
Christopher Brown, S50. We may also want
to include Victor Ashe in this group,
though he was in the Class of'67. Ashe is a
true Skull: Mayor of Kaoxville, and a long-
time friend and donor to W. (He gave
$1000.)

Despite appearances, however, the
donations probably have more to do with
friendship than with fellowship or politics;
only two people in the Bones Class of '67
have given, and no one in the Class of '66
has contributed. And although four people
in the Class of'69 have donated, their total
donation is roughly equal co the $200
Britton Kolar gave on his own. Indeed, W
has raised about as much from his Delta
Kappa Epsilon brothers (whom he really
did brand) as he has from his fellow
Bonesmen.

So, barring a genuine, underground
money-laundering operation, there doesn't
seem co be much of a Skull and Bones con-
spiracy-as if one were necessary to raise
S?O million for a Republican ofW's breed-
ing in a booming economy.
-lanBkchn-


**Title: Who holds the deeds to Yale's intellectual property?**
**Author: Judy Miller and Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 8, 9**

"There is a consensus that
Versity.com's actions are a deeply
troubling commercial intrusion into
our classrooms, an improper exploita-
tion of the intellectual property of the
instructors, and in many instances a
misrepresentation of courses."
- Richard Brodhead, Dean of Yale College
email to the Yale College student body

" Under the Copyright Law, the
copyright to a work created by a
person in the course of his or her
employment belongs to the employer
rather than to the individual creator.
The law provides, therefore, that
works created by faculty members in
the course of their teaching and
research, and works created by staff
members in the course of their jobs,
are the property of the University."
-Yale University Policy on Copyrights
Office of Cooperative Research

" [In 1999,] income from licensing
royalties to the University continued to
grow, reaching $40.7 million, up
$7.4 million from the previous year."
-Yale University Office of Cooperative Research
1999 Financial Report

A s THEY WALKED PAST the "No Food or
~
Drinks" signs into the An Gallery Lecture
Hall, carrying notebooks, snacks, and coffee one
chilly February morning, students in Professor
John
Merriman's
"European
Civilization:
1648-1945" course were surprised to find another
student standing outside the room, handing out
sheets of paper. Even more surprising, these
papers contained notes from the previous
Monday's lecture. Versity.com, an online note-
providing agency, was using student employees to
drum up business for its website. By the end of
February, Versity was providing notes for 37 Yale
classes, and this same scene had been staged out-
side five of Yale College's largest lecture courses.
The site carried notes for some of Yale's best-
known classes, including Jonathan Spence's
kHistory of Modern China" and Willie Strong's
'']au: America's Music."

Versity grew from the effons of four
University of Michigan students to provide notes
for their classes. The site expanded quickly and
soon became one of a number of online "academ-
ic communities" offering services such as class
notes, discussion boards, and campus news. The
company first anempted to enter the fabric of Eli
society last December by contacting Dean
Brodhead's office. When the Administration
failed to reply, Versity started recruiting students
as note-takers. Approximately 100 students
applied and 24 were chosen for the job, many tak-
ing notes for more than one class. Toward the end
of February, Versity reported that up to 17o/o of
Yale students were accessing the site.

Shortly after the site went up, many of Yale's
professors learned about Versity. "One of my TAS
happened to browse into [the site]," Spence said.
uMy reaction was to be puzz.led because I'd never
been asked in any way to do this [post lecture
nores on the Internet)." After considering the
subject, Spence decided he didn't approve. Other
professors agreed. "They're interjecting them-
selves in an area where they don't belong,"
Merriman said ofVersity and its student employ-
ees. Concerns ranged from quescions of accuracy
and infringement of intellectual propeny rights
to simple lecture anendance by students.

Yale is by no means the only member of the
THE NEW JouRNAL


Yale's intellectual property?

Ivy League that has had to deal with Versity. The site has featured
classes from Harvard, Columbia, and Penn, among others, and still
includes 45 courses for Penn, 37 for Cornell, and 20 for Columbia.
Stanford courses are featured on the site as well, but, after an objec-
tion from the administration regarding unlimited access to the site,
Versity agreed to allow only Stanford students access. Enterprising
students must now choose "Stanford" from a list of schools when
registering in order to view Stanford's notes. Harvard cook a more
active approach to the problem. The adminstration threatened the
rebellious scribblers with expulsion, since their actions were in vio-
lation of the student handbook: "Students who sell lecture or read-
ing notes ... may be required co withdraw."

Yale's administration became aware of Versity's presence on
campus when a number of professors complained to Dorothy
Robinson, General Counsel for the University. "I had not heard of
Versity.com until I began to receive some email correspondences
that were forwarded copies of messages by faculty members express-
ing their upset and outrage over discovering that notes from their
classes were posted on Versity.com's website ... My initial reaction
was surprise that this activity would be happening without autho-
rization," she said. The University took action. Brodhead sent an
email to all Yale students arguing that Versity's service was both a
commercial intrusion into the classroom and an exploitation of
intellectual property. Brodhead also claimed that Versity's services
"are not only wrongful, bur also often misleading and academically
unsound." Following Harvard's lead, Brodhead referred co the
Untkrgraduau Regulations, which, he claimed, prohibits students
from selling notes. Unfortunately for Yale, the clause in Yale's stu-
dent handbook is not nearly as strong as Harvard's; Yale's merely
states that studen ts may not "undertake to represent any commer-
cial interest or to operate any business on the campus without
securing prior permission from the Dean of Student Affairs."

More important than Brodhead's warning to students was his
attack on Versity icsel£ The University threatened to take legal
action against the company if it continued to post notes from Yale
classes. "We thought that it was important first of all because things
happen quickly on the web and because of the degree of concern
expressed by faculty members," Robinson said. "Versity had under-
taken this activity without permission and faculty felt exposed and
felt exploited, and they also felt that their courses were being mis-
represented as to content." T he same day that Brodhead wrote to
the student body, Versity agreed to remove temporarily all notes for
Yale classes-at least until it met with the Yale administration.

Monday, March 27, marked the end ofVersity's life at Yale for
the indefinite future. After meeting with administrators, Versity
agreed to keep Yale courses off its website. In exchange, the
University agreed to contact Versity if they desired its services at a
Iacer dace. While Robinson doesn't think this renewed conract is
impossible, she does think it is extremely unlikely: "The service
that's co be provided, that of note-taking. is something that can be
accomplished in other ways."

The real question, then, is why Versity agreed to such an
obviously lopsided agreement. Yale got everything it wanted,
and Versity got nothing. Versity provided no explicit rea-
son. Robinson thought that "Versity appreciates that it's
in the company's best interest not to have adversarial
relations with colleges and universities but to sell its ser-
vices and its packages co institutions that want
them ... They have a business that they wish to build
and they're learning how. They were up front with us
that they're trying co learn, they're trying to do new
things and they're trying to learn from their mis-
takes." But Versity's rune was very different earli-
er in the semester. In an interview at that time
with the Yak Daily Nnus, Ken Dignam, one of
Versity's regional managers, was confidenr of
Versity's position with regard to the law.

"Intellectual property rights do not exist.
Someone taught the professors the material
they're lecturing on; are they going to send their
old professors a part of their pay check each year?"

But while Dignam and, by extension, Versity,
have claimed that intellectual property rights do
not legally exist, this is simply false. The
United States and other countries around
the world have a long history of granting
rights to intellectual property. The
Copyright Act of 1909 was the first
codification of United States copy-
right law. It became possible to
copyright any original work in fixed
form. The law also contained rwo impor-
tant points regarding academic lectures. F1CSt,
it included "lectures, sermons, [and] address-
es" in its list of copyrightable materials.
Second, the Act declared that works-for-hire
(works created using company resources or
while being paid to create said works) are the
property of the employer, and not che employ-
ee. It appeared, however, co exclude reachers from
the works-for-hire clause.

The confusion, however, still lies in copyright
ownership. The 1969 case Wil/i4ms v.
~isur
involved a ucu. professor seeking an injunction and
damages against a company similar to Versicy for pub-
lishing notes from his class. While the case 6cmly estab-
9



**AUTHENTIC THAI CUISINE**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AUTHENTIC THAI CUISINE 
TAKE OUT MENU 
1170 CHAPEL STREET 
NEW HAVEN, CT 06511 
(ecross from COlOHY INN, Downtown) 
OPEN EVERYDAY 
SUN· THURS: 11:31)AJ1:10:00PM 
FRI & SAT: 11:30AM ·10:30PM 
PHONE: (203) 562.0322 
"Best Thai Restaurant 1998" 
-New Haven Advocate


SlYLE 
imagination. 
relaxed. 
fasnion. 
s~le. fabric. texture. color. 
imagination. relaxed. fashion. 
style. fabric. texture. color. 
imagination. relaxed. 
1 020 Chapel Street New Hoven 865·382 4 
10 


**Who Owns a Professor's Lecture?**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

lished that academic lectures generally were 
copyrightable under the 1909 Copyright 
Act, the actual owner of the copyright 
remained in question. 

Matters were muddled even further 
with the Federal Copyright Act of 1976. 
The Act made one crucial change: there is 
no longer any implication that teachers are 
exempt from the works-for-hire clause. 
Still, the relationship between the 1909 Act 
and the 1976 Act is unclear. If the second 
was intended to replace the first, then any 
implications for professors from the first 
Act are annulled. But if the second Act was 
intended to revise the first, replacing only 
certain portions, then the implications 
remain relevant, as does common law tra-
dition regarding copyrights. 

Under the works-for-hire clause, lec-
tures may belong to the university. After 
all, they are created on university time as 
part of a university employee's job. In fact, 
. Yale policy claims ownership of all copy-
rightable works of intellectual property cre-
ated by its employees. In order to encour-
age scholarship, it waives these rights for 
certain materials, such as books and arti-
cles. No specific mention, however, is made 
of lectures. According to Robinson, the 
University would grant most lecture copy-
rights to professors. "Yes, the University is 
involved and interested [in lectures], and 
yes, [lectures] may in a technical sense be 
works-for-hire under the copyright law, but 
there's a recognition of the critical role 
played by the faculty member ... If it is a 
work-for-hire, it is licensed back; there's an 
implicit license back to the faculty member 
of rights to further develop and exploit that 
content consistent with the interests of the 
University." Other University officials dis-
agree: "It is well understood that the lec-
tures, if they were to be copyrightable, 
would be treated as if they were the prop-
erty of the University," says Dr. E. Jonathan 
Soderstrom, Managing Director of the Yale 
University Office of Cooperative Research 
(OCR). 

The walls of OCR are covered by 
posters describing various business proce-
dures, publications trumpeting the latest 
discoveries of the Yale faculty, framed sto-
ries of Yale research successes {such as the 
drugs Zerit and Lymerix), and charts show-
ing the drastic increase over the last four 
years in profits earned from Yale patents. In 
a comer of the waiting room hangs a poster 
charting the "Patent's Progress," an appro-
priate decoration for a place that attempts 
to unite scholarship with business. This 
office, after all, manages the business side 
of all of Yale's intellectual property. 

According to the office's website, "The 
duties of the OCR include oversight for 
patenting and licensing activity, University 
inventions, and contractual relationships 
between 
faculty 
and 
industry." 
Additionally, the office attempts to develop 
new connections with industry by identify-
ing inventions with commercial applica-
, tions and by helping to create new private 
companies to market applications of Yale 
research. 

Yale has the right to an area of intel-
lectual property much more profitable than 
copyrights: patents. Yale owns patents on 
all inventions created out of work done at 
Yale. This non-waived right has proved 
quite lucrative for the University, bringing 
in $4o,ooo,ooo during fiscal year 1999· 
This is largely due to the $33,ooo,ooo 
earned by Zerit, a popular AIDS drug that 
the University has licensed to Bristol-Myers 
Squibb. In addition, SmithKline Beecham 
has received FDA approval for Yale-devel-
oped Lyrnerix, the first vaccine available for 
Lyme disease. 

One might wonder why the University 
makes $4o,ooo,ooo off patents from 
research done by professors. The answer is 
the works-for-hire clause. Because the 
research that creates these patents is done 
with Yale resources, on paid Yale rime, the 
University is able to claim ownership of 
these patents, and, unlike its policy regard-
ing books and articles, chooses not to 
renounce this ownership. "The investment 
in patenting and exploiting inventions is 
sometimes very great," Robinson said. "It's 
only been through the resources of the 
Universiry that inventions have been 
patented and are marketed and licensed 
and sold. That whole activity involves an 
investment of resources on the institution-
al side quite apart from 'the investment of 
resources in the laboratory setups and the 
surrounding support that is part of the 
environment that makes possible the kinds 
of inventions that are done on the scientific 
research side." Copyrightable material, on 
the other hand, does not usually incur the 
same expenses and seldom generates such 
large royalties. 

This different policy for patents relies 


--- Page 11 ---

on a formula that splits profits between the 
cion, unlike the universities mentioned in 
inventor and the University. After subtract-
the article, "categorically, Yale will not 
ing the expense involved in acquiring and 
allow any restrictions on publications. 
maintaining the patent from any royalty 
Period. End of conversation. Have we 
money the patent generates, the University 
turned down money from corporations 
splits the remaining rof.alties with the 
because we weren't willing to bend on that? 
inventors. For the first $10o,ooo that a 
Yes. Will we in the future? Yes. Will we 
patent generates, half of the royalties go to 
change that policy? No." 

In the end, Dean Brodhead's email to 
the inventor and half go to the University. 
students was largely correct. Versity's notes 
For the next $too,ooo, the inventor is 
were at the very least misleading in their 
granted 40% and the University 6o%. For 
representation of Yale courses. They clearly 
all profits above $2oo,ooo, 30% goes to the 
cannot provide a substitute for the profes-
inventor and 70% to the University. Like 
soc-student interaction that occurs in any 
copyrights, the University sets its own 
class, lecture or seminar. "It seems to be dif-
terms and determines for itself how the ere-
ferent from the kind of relationship one 
ator will be compensated or rewarded. 
works out with the students you're 
For example, if a single license 
teaching at a given moment .. .lf I'm 
brings in $33,ooo,ooo, nearly 70% 
presenting my ideas to a group that 
will go to the University. While this 
I'm talking to directly, where 
may seem to benefit the 
there's a lot of give and take, it's a 
University unfairly, Yale's divi- ,, 
kind of sharing. Even though it's 
sion formula is actually more 
a large class, you can focus in on 
generous than that of many 
people and there's a kind of sharing going 
other universltles. Harvard's policy, for 
on all the time," Spence said. In addition, 
example, grants only 35% of the first 
Versity's easily available notes preclude even 
$50,000 and only 25% of the remainder of 
the minimal amount of thought required 
the royalties to the inventor. Harvard's por-
to copy a classmate's notes, let alone any 
tion of the royalties is split between the 
opportunity for the connection with course 
department of the inventor, the school in 
content provided by actual class atten-
which the inventor works, and the univer-
dance. 

Furthermore, Brodhead was right 
sity as a whole. This earmarking of royalties 
when he said that Versity had exploited 
to the inventor's department has been sug-
intellectual property. Copyright law makes 
gested by some of Yale's professors, most 
it clear that lectures are copyrightable. 
often from the School of Medicine, but no 
Brodhead, however, may have erred in 
proposals have come before the Yale 
speaking of the instructors' intellectual 
Corporation. "The policy is set by the 
property. University policy states that copy-
Corporation and it has been modified a 
rightable materials are the property of the 
couple of times, but all changes must be 
University. The faculty, staff, and students 
approved by the Corporation," Soderstrom 
must agree to abide by this policy. 

Although the University grants a blanket 
said. 

Soderstrom seems not to worry that 
exemption for books and other published 
commercial interests have been harmful to 
works, it has yet to extend this policy to 
scholarship at Yale. "Yale ... was viewed as 
lectures. 

Brodhead's strongest argument rests 
being historically antagonistic co commer-
cia! 
influence on research... That's 
on the implied negative effects of Ver~ity's 
changed. 
We've become a much more 
commercial intrusion into academia. 
open, accepting environment, but that's 
Robinson states, "It may be that the class-
been a 
more recent phenomenon." 
room domain is coming to be, like so many 
Although Soderstrom characteriz.es this 
other aspects of life now, [a place] where 
environment as more open and inviting, 
one has to be concerned about the forces of 
not everyone agrees. A recent article in Th~ 
commercial intrusions and take protective 
Atlantic Monthly discussed the nefarious 
actions [against these]." These intrusions 
influences of corporate money on research, 
could affect anything from lecturing to 
including limitiations on publication and 
notes to strained relations between profes-
sharing of research tools. Soderstrom 
sors and students. 

APRIL 1.4. 2000 
emphasized that Yale believes research tools 
should be made broadly available. In addi-


Ironically, Yale itself has taken the ini-
tiative in introducing certain commercial 
influences, most notably drug licensing, 
into professors' research. Although Yale has 
worked to ensure academic integrity, it has 
also instituted practices that identify, 
encourage, and develop commercially-
viable research. The $4o,ooo,ooo that Yale 
made on patents last year is nearly enough 
to pay for the salaries -of every full, associ-
ate, and assistant professor in the Faculty of 
Arts and Sciences. The addition of the 
profit motive, especially when dealing with 
such large sums of money, is enough to 
influence even the most well-intentioned 
administrator or professor to research for 
commercial rather than academic reasons. 
Professors may choose to pursue drugs that 
will be successful in the United States mar-
ketplace, like Viagra or Rogaine, rather 
than unprofitable drugs like vaccines for 
epidemic third-world diseases. 

So far, Yale has been vigilant in 
defending the institution against overt 
commercialization of research and teach-
ing, as well as the attendant consequences. 
Compared to its peer institutions, the 
University is generous with professors 
when dealing with intellectual property 
and has avoided many of the pitfalls of 
commercial influence. Still, Yale must be 
careful not to take any further steps along 
the primrose path of commercial success at 
the expense of academic integrity. The 
institution has already begun to examine 
scientific research through the lens of 
profit. The Versity situation reminds us 
that the temptation for academic trespass 
can arise in all fields, be they scientific, 
humanistic, or pedagogical. 

Ill] 
judy Milln; a ~shman in Berluky Co/kg~. 
is production manager for TNJ. 
Patrick Casty Pitts is a freshman in Berlt~ky 
Co/kg~. 
u 



**Keeping the Faith**
**Author: Andy Cowdery**
**Page number(s): 12**

l<eepi ng the Faith 
Reverend Eric Sm ith combines worship and work to
0 
NE HUNDRED YEARS AGO, a young black woman arrived in 
Washington, DC, intent on leading her community. She 
raised her voice against unfair voting laws, segregation, and lynch-
ing, and she didn't quiet down for 61 years. Her speeches inspired 
action, and her work was the basis for the inclusion of women into 
the National Baptist Convention. Her name was Nannie Helen 
Burroughs, and a century after she began her crusade, Reverend 
Eric Smith is well into his. 

Since arriving at the Newhallville Community Baptist Church 
five years ago, this energetic computer-programmer-turned-pastor 
has tirelessly worked to rejuvenate the Newhallville neighborhood 
of New Haven and to strengthen the Church's role in town aff.Ucs. 
Smith's current project is the Nannie Helen Burroughs School, an 
Afrocentric Christian school opening this fall. "Sunday is the warm-
up act," he says, a huge grin spreading over his face. "Monday 
through Saturday is the show." 

Smith has been working Monday through Saturday (in addi-
tion to his sizeable Sunday duties) since 1997, setting up commit-
tees and boards so that, come this fall, the Burroughs School will be 
able to run entirely on its own, allowing him to focus on his next 
project: a credit union in Newhallville geared at stimulating local 
business. The Burroughs School, after all, is only one part of 
Community 
Baptist's 
massive 
Community Development 
Corporation (CDC), a hub of urban renewal that Smith engineered 
himself. Other projects include a daycare center for working fami-
lies, a substance abuse clinic, a job-rcain.ing facility, and a low-
income housing development. 

None of this would have happened had Smith not been called 
into the ministry in 1992 while working as a computer programmer 
and consultant in New Britain. He's not your average techie--he is 
built more like a linebacker than a hacker. Smith began raking class-
es at the Yale Divinity School and left his job at Command Systems 
Consulting in 1995 to work at Community Baptist with irs cele-
brated pastor, Reverend Thomas Holmes. Smith enjoyed working 
with Holmes so much that in 1996 he moved his family to 
Newhallville just to be closer to him. At this point in the story 
Smith leans back in his chair, a quiz.z.ical expression on his face, and 
says, "Literally while we were moving our things out of the truck, 
we found out that Reverend Holmes had just died." Smith says that 
in spite of the fateful timing of this event, he had come to do a job, 
and set about doing it. When he began at Community Baptist as 
12 
by Andy Cowdery 
interim pastor, it was first time in 25 years that someone other than 
Thomas Holmes delivered the Sunday sermon. 

"They didn't know what to do with me at first," Smith recalls 
of his inherited congregation, which was accustomed to milder ser-
mons than Smith wanted to deliver. Eventually they warmed to 
Smith's more energetic style, and, three years after being named 
Community Baptist's full pastor, he has become one of New 
Haven's mosr effective community leaders, largely because of 
intense and broad-based support from his congregation. 

Indeed, many of those currently working on the Nannie Helen 
Burroughs School are members of Community Baptist. Three years 
ago planning began for the School, designed as a cultural alrerna-
rive for students (or parents) dissatisfied with the public school sys-
tem's ueatment of race, religion, and history. 

The Burroughs School will enroll only kindergarten and first 
grade students this fall, but will eventually run through the eighth 
grade as it expands with each incoming class. Classes wilJ have 20 
students, and Smith is adamant that the School maintain a student-
to-reacher ratio of 20:1. The School's Afrocenrcic focus will come 
primarily from irs curriculum. The Burroughs School wilJ most 
likely use the A B~ka Book text, used at over 17,000 Christian 
schools nationwide. Though some members of the School's cur-
riculum committee feel that the A B~ka Book, used at many pre-
dominantly white schools, would not accurately reAect African cul-
ture, Smith believes that reachers can combine the text with their 
own cultural perspective to create a sufficiently Afrocentric focus. 
This year, while the School is still rather small (40 students), class-
es will meet on the lower Aoor of Community Baptist. Starting in 
the fall of 2001, the Burroughs School will occupy irs own building 
in NewhaJlville. Funding for the School has come from local cor· 
porations, regional banks, private donations, and Community 
Baptist itself, which devoted five percent of its income. 

For now, however, Smith .is still focused on ensuring that the 
Burroughs School will open without a hitch. Helping his cause is 2 
great number of volunteers who have signed on ro write up school 
bylaws, drum up interest in the community, and design the cur· 
riculum. Many of the volunteers have personal motivations for join-
ing Smith's team. "We were new to the neighborhood," said Jolyn 
Walker, who came to Milford several years. ago with her young son. 
"and we ran into some incidents in the public school system." She 
pauses a moment, then continues slowly. "He was spit upon, and 



**Title: Revitalize Newhallville**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
) revitalize Newhallville 
called 'blackhead.' He got punched in the face, and rhcy all looked 
at him like h~was rhc troublemaker. We went to his teacher, and we 
were ignored." Another pause, and chen angrily: "My son did not 
want to go to school anymore." 

Walker pulled her son our of public school and enrolled him at 
Heritage Christian Academy in Wallingford, where he is now an A 
student and active in school life. "What stayed with me," his moth-
er adds, "was what would have happened ro him if I couldn't pay to 
get hlm our? What would he be today?" Walker searched for an 
educational atmosphere inspiring confidence and self-esreem rather 
than fear, and found rhat "people kept calking abour Reverend 
Smith." She soon signed onto the Nannic Helen Burroughs board 
to share her ideas and emotions productively, and ro support a 
school rhar was everything she wished her son could have had. 

Though Smith's projects have been helped greatly by his 
church, Smith's church has been helped in turn by public awareness 
of the projects it takes on, the Burroughs School in particular. "I 
was pleased by the idea of an Afrocentric Christian school," Moore 
said, "especially after watching the number of children who fail 
because they have no sense of self. Children need to be engaged, to 
learn through exploration and rake control of their own education. 
They need to get a feeling of power to learn on their own rerms, and 
it has to begin while they arc young, in kindergarten or first grade." 
He believes that, as a new school whose curriculum and policies are 
being designed to meet the demands of modern society. the 
Burroughs School will prepare srudencs for the real world, both cul-
turally and academically. 

Smith also stresses the importance of reaching srudenrs history 
in a meaningful way. He criticizes the tendency of public schools to 
teach only pose-slavery African history, which, according to Smith, 
results in a shallow awareness of true African culture. \XIalker was 
even more distressed, saying char, "Our history in many ways has 
been virtually erased ... for us, ir's like, 'Marrin Luther King,' and 
that's it." 

Although applications arc still being sc.:nr our ro pre-schools 
and parents, the Nannie Helen Burroughs School already has irs 
first matriculating studenc: Jeremiah Smtrh. the kindergarten-age 
son of Reverend Smith himself. "His ID number will be 't.'" "I he 
elder Smith beams, then adds, "And we're paying tuition, too." 

The school's tuition will be on a sliding scale, based on a per-
centage of household income, in keeping with the board's de~ire 
APRIL 14, 2000 
that Burroughs be open to all, regardless of class or race. Despite irs 
Afrocentric focus, the school will nor consider race in admissions, 
which Smith claims will be strictly first-come, first-serve, until the 
20 spaces in each class are filled. 

Walker hopes that the School's focus on learning, culture, and 
the community will create a reputation that will offer Burroughs 
students attractive options upon graduation. "I have worked at 
Choate Rosemary Hall for 10 years," she says, "and they are very 
interested in a school like Nannie Helen Burroughs." Walker 
believes chat once it reaches full capacity in 2007, Burroughs could 
be a strong feeder co prep schools like Choate. She added that pres-
tigious academies are "open ro anyone with the right skills," and 
that, with Burroughs' focus on academics and the community, its 
students will be well prepared for whichever high school they 
choose ro attend. 

The Burroughs School logo is a dove perched in a band-a ref-
erence ro Noah's return ro dry land and a symbol of a new begin-
ning. And Moore is emphatic that American religion needs a new 
beginning ... With shootings every two seconds and drug deals on 
every corner, what's the church for?" he asks, then answers the ques-
tion himself: "Prayer by itself is nor enough; you need to puc action 
behind it. That's how prayers get answered. He doesn't focus just 
on the afterlife," Moore says of Smith. "His focus is on now, on 
building the community." 

Above the doors ro the main sanctuary of Community Baptist 
hangs a sign char reads, "Enter to Worship, Exit to Serve.~ Though 
Smith didn't author the phrase, he makes sure it is carried out. He 
"vill soon be absorbed in building homes and credit unions, but the 
spark to his work is the School, which will produce a base of young 
community members who are secure in their belief and their cui-
ture. 

And] Cowd~ry is a jmhman in Ezra Stiks Co/kg~.


**Title:  Anders Corr: No Trespassing**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

A
T THE AGE OF 17, Anders Corr read "Self-Reliance" and took 
to heart Ralph Waldo Emerson's advice to "learn to detect 
and watch the gleam of light which flashes across his mind from 
within, more than the lustre of the firmament of bards and sages." 
He dropped out of high school, renounced his American citizen-
ship, and spent much of the next decade as a squatter-activist fight-
ing for the right of the homeless to live on vacant "private proper-
ty." Keeping this personal history in mind while waiting to meet 
him at Atticus, I scanned the tables, searching for dreadlocks, pierc-
ings and other tell-tale signs of a radical in the midst of clean-cut 
Yale students. Corr, however, had no trouble blending in. Now a 
Yalie himself, the 30-year-old junior's conservative haircut, horn-
rimmed glasses and chic patent leather shoes belie his exceptional 
past and the nonchalance with which he recounts scouring dump-
sters for food, getting deported from Kenya and Mexico, and 
spending three weeks in solitary confinement for refusing to wear 
an identification bracelet while in a California prison. 

As I sit down with Corr he shakes my hand unassumingly. 
When the waiter comes over; he orders a cookie, then changes his 
mind and asks for a menu. Laughing at himself, he decides on the 
cookie. I ask him some questions about squatting, but he seems 
more interested in talking about his classes and thoughts on poli-
tics. 'Tm focusing on whether it makes sense to have global inte-
gration and take away borders between nation scares," he tells me. 
"What I am doing right now is all about getting rid of borders." I 
press him to describe his time as a squatter camping on unoccupied 
land and scavenging for food. "Oh yeah, here." He takes out a hard-
cover book and hands it to me. "I need that back, though, it's my 
only copy." 

The tome is Corr's book No Trespassing, released last fall by 
South End Press, a small, nonprofit publisher in Cambridge. It doc-
uments his own experience as a squatter and defends the rights of 
others-from peasants in Honduras to disaffected punks in New 
York City-to live freely on unoccupied land and in abandoned 
buildings. In No Trespassing, Corr draws on both historical and con-
14 
temporary examples to argue that squatting is the ultimate form of 
protest against a fundamentally unjust economic and political sys-
tem. I flip to the "About the Author" in the back of the book. His 
resume boasts an impressive list of publications for which he has 
written-The New York Times, The San Francisco Examiner, Anarchy 
Magazine, and Squat BeautifUL 

While No Trespassing makes a compelling and well-considered 
intellectual argument, its real significance lies in its call to action. 
The book's final line quotes Elvia Alvarado, a Honduran squatter: 
"I hate to offend you, but we won't get anywhere by just writing and 
reading books," she told Corr. "The important thing is for you to 
do something." Corr, not one for sanctimonious rhetoric, has spent 
much of his life fulfilling this ideal. 

After growing up as the only child of a single mother in Santa 
Cruz, CA, Corr spent his junior year in high school as an American 
Field Service exchange student in Kenya. During his stay in 
Nairobi, he was exposed to a level of poverty that made a profound 
impression on him. In the midst of such deprivation, he began to 
question the causes of social and economic inequality around the 
globe. "I began to wish for a world that did not order its agricul-
tural ·or political states through police and military force, lines of 
property, and international boundaries drawn on maps." More 
importantly, Corr questioned his own role in such a system. "I read 
. Tolstoy and Gandhi. I became a pacifist and an internationalist." 

A month before he was scheduled to return to California, Corr 
marched into the American embassy in Nairobi, passport in hand, 
and renounced his citizenship. "I saw that by using a United Stares 
passport, I tacitly participated in what I considered an injustice." 
Bewildered embassy officials were unsure how to respond to this 
well-read, precocious, and idealistic 17 year-old. They promptly 
expelled him from the country and sent him home. 

Back in San'ta Cruz, Corr was a changed man. His Quaker 
background had already given him a pacifist and socially-conscious 
world-view, but his exposure to the slums and srarvation of Nairobi 
had convinced him to reject sociery altogether. In a consummately 
TH£ NEW JouRNAL 

--- Page 15 ---

Emersonian act of defiance, he biked into Mexico without a pass-
port, a cicizen of the world filled with indignation. After evading 
border controls and police for several hundred miles, Corr was 
finally apprehended and detained by officials in Mazaclin. "They 
said that I could either pay for a plane ticker back to the U.S. or go 
to prison," recalls Corr. His principles demanded that he go to 
prison. But, a sympathetic citizen of the United States paid for him 
to fiy back to California. 

Just t8 years old, Corr decided to drop out of society as com-
pletely as possible. "I asked the question, 'How is it justified for me 
co spend money at all when there are people starving all over the 
world?' I wanted co live without spending any money," he explains. 
Over the next three months, he lived on just forty cents, camping 
in the woods outside of Santa Cruz and sustaining himself on 
organic milk and half-eaten sandwiches scavenged nightly from a 
dumpster behind a health food store. Once, Corr tells me, he 
almost are a bag of tofu that was mixed with shards of glass. He 
laughs. "Whatever. If there's food in a dumpster and there are peo-
ple starving, I should ear that food--even if it's a lircle dangerous." 

While squatting, Corr was constantly harassed by cops and 
property owners. During those days and his subsequent time as a 
homeless rights activist, he was arrested 17 rimes and spent a total 
offour months in jail. I ask him about prison. "It was intense, it was 
a learning experience, bur not intolerable. I read Th~ htkra/ist 
Papn-1 in prison," he notes with a couch of irony. Even when threat-
ened with harsh treatment by cops and prison guards, Corr retained 
his commitment to noncompliance and pacifism. His incarcera-
tions were often prolonged because, in defiance of a system which 
he saw as perpetuating injustice, Core would refuse co sign forms 
allowing him to leave without bail. 

During one stint in a Santa Cruz jail, 
Corr 
removed 
his 
prisoner 
identification bracelet, similar to the 
one a patient wears in a hospital. "It's 
dehumanizing, it's implying that you're 
sick because you're in jail. So I refused to wear it ... and they put me 
in solitary confinement for three weeks." 

Corr relates all of this to me marrer-of-factly, as if describing 
the boring details of a high school graduation. Trying co imagine 
the person before me living our the story he tells, I ask him if he was 
as clean cut then as he is now. He laughs. "I was more clean cur back 
then." 

Just a few months after he started squatting, Corr began ro 
depart from his radical asceticism. In Quaker meetings, many of his 
peers condemned his lifestyle, particularly his defiant noncompli-
ance with the law. Corr wanted to defend his views in writing. "I 
knew that what I was doing was right, and I wanted co explain 
that." His casual tone undercuts any self-indulgence which the 
effort might imply. Although he began with the intention of writ-
ing no more than a pamphlet, Core's scope quickly grew. Influenced 
by people as diverse as Rigoberta Menchu and Mark Twain, he saw 
close connections between his experience and land occupation 
efforts worldwide. "Land and housing movements are infinitely 
diverse, yet enjoy exciting trans-global coalitions," he wrote. The 
idea evolved into a full-scale study of squatting and squatters' rights 
movements around the world and throughout the twentieth centu-
ry. Corr ended his days as a squatter and reemerged as a member 
of society, dividing his rime between writing, activism, and work. 
Bur, he emphasizes, this in no way implied a break in his com-
mitment ro radical change and direct action. Indeed, two years 
Later, he returned ro squatting. "I've avoided the rigors of ... outdoor 
squatting for the last seven years," Corr wrote in the book's intro-
duction, "bur I began writing this book as a squatter, and I hope 
that squatter spirit permeates irs pages." Even as he started accept-



**Title: The Activist and the Academic**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Malaysian "fusion" cuisine 
Lunch 
(off of 
16 
ingjobs waiting tables and doing day labor, 
he was far from moving into the main~ 
scream. Initially, he would not cake more 
than three dollars an hour-
the mean per 
capita global wage-for his work, even 
when employers offered him nine or ten. "I 
wouldn't accept more than that because I 
tho~ght that's what everyone should 
make," he explains. 

Corr also became active in movements 
fighting for the rights of squatters to occu~ 
py unused land regardless of who holds the 
deed. In the midst of other squatters, he 
organized and participated in countless 
occupations of land and buildings. He 
takes out a photo album and shows me pic~ 
rures of occupations and rallies. Alongside 
homeless Vietnam veterans and wild~haired 
punks. Corr wields a crowbar, shattering 
deadbolts and masrerlocks to enter aban~ 
cloned buildings. He describes an effort in 
San Francisco to block the descrucrion of 
an abandoned building used by squatters. 
He speaks slowly and deliberately, choosing 
his words carefully so as not to reveal his 
role--or whether he even had a role--in 
the illegal enterprise. A 55-gallon barrel was 
filled with chunks of stone and concrete 
and clUck strips of iron rebar. After wet 
cement was poured in, the idea went, 
squarten and aCtivists would bolt their 
hands into the barrel. In order to move 
them from the site, cops would have to cut 
through hundreds of pounds of concrete, 
rock and metal. The building was saved. 

Even as Corr describes how he ended 
up at Yale, I cannot help but feel that his 
current life is somehow disjointed from his 
radical activist days. I do not want to 
believe that he has sold out, but I can't rec· 
oncile the paradox his story seems to 
embody: the guy with a radical commit· 
ment to change and personal direct action 
transforms himself easily into the faithful 
and diligent academic. After spending 
three semesters at community college in 
San Francisco, he transferred to Yale cltis 
~. largely because of a desire to study wid! 
certain members of the political science 
department. One of those professors, James 
Scott, praises Corr, his student, on dle 
jacket of No Trnpassing. Corr is currendr 
focusing his studies on issues of global gov-
ernance, the theory propounded by left· 
wing "world federalist" organizations 
around the country. He hopes to graduate 
next year with both bachelor's and master's 
degrees in political science and then to go 
to either Law or graduate school. 

Corr picks up on my suspicion that he 
has sold out. "Stieet activism has a mot21 
power that nothing else does. It's saying 
THE NEW jouRNAL 


'we're not going to play the little game, that 
it's all bullshit,'" he says. Corr, however, 
sees no need to defend hi~ decisions; he 
calmly explains them. <.onlidcnr chat hi!. 
reasoning will speak for itself: He does not 
dismiss rhe srreer-lcvel 
l,tdidtl i~m of his 
younger da)·s as angst-ridden, adolescenr 
rebellion. Instead, he attributes his radical 
change in .tpproach to acquired wisdom 
and a recendy-developed political sensibili-
ty. "I saw the limitations th.n ~ocial move-
ments can come up agaimt," he explains. 
"Rad icals need to try to get into places 
where they can affec:c ch.11ge on a macro-
level." More than anyone, Corr seems to be 
in a position to make this judgement. 
\X'hile his radicalism has not subsided, he 
sees 
power-trad i tion;tl, 
hierarchical, 
establishment power 
as the most viable 
avenue ro legirimatt. change. "I thought 
that to be part of that hierarchy you had ro 
compromise yourself. hut if you can get let 
into that hierarchy. you have a much bener 
chance of making changes: you'll be at the 
table instead of ourside with a banner." 

Anders Corr is toeing the fine line chat 
every activist must tread. After ,1 decade of 
street activism, he is poised to emcr a main-
stream that seems to contr.tdict the radical-
ism of his younger dap. Cort thinks he can 
resolve this paradox and doC"sn't c.·ue if oth-
ers suspect that he has bcc.:n compromised. 
"All of my activist friends 1hink J'm a sell-
out, and tt\ okay with 111(.'," He returns to 
Emcr~on's "Self-Reliance," the bible of hi~ 
youth: "Io be gre-at is w be misunder-
stood." 
iBIJ 
Dan it! Kurtz-l'htlan, •l Jmhm_an in Btrkt!ty 
Col~gt. is mtarch dimtor for'l N). 
Phoro\ courtc~ uf Anders Corr 
APRil. 14, 2.000 


**Title: Artspace: Redefining Art Spaces**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

HE BASEMENT OF 220 CoLLEGE STREET IS RAW SPACE. Tucked beneath Tibwin Grill, the barren room belies the beauty par-
lor it once was. Walls, pipes, sinks, and hair dryers have all been removed. The space has been stripped of its former saccharine 
chaos and scraped clean. Now, electric sockets gape from the walls, naked bulbs glare from the ceiling, four rusty poles stand 
exposed, and a circle of white folding chairs occupies one corner. 
Untitled (space) is the new home of Artspace, a nonprofit artists' collaborative that is quietly changing the way New Haven 
sees art and, well, art spaces. "We are redefining where art happens," said Helen K.auder, president of Arts pace's board of direc· 
tors, when I met with her and co-di.rector Marianne Bernstein in untitled (space) one afternoon. Since its inception in 1984. 
Artspace has been "a catalyst for artistic efforts," and, in recent years, with its City-Wide Open Studios project, has turned i~ 
focus toward rehabilitating decrepit or abandoned New Haven spaces. Each year, vacant commercial buildings are transformed 
into artists' studios and the public is invited inside. In its wake, Open Studios has left a trail of urban renewal: about half of t}l( 
abandoned spaces used as studios in the first year of the project were subsequently leased. 
For most of its existence, Artspace introduced art to vacant spaces while remaining nestled in an upscale gallery on Audubo~ 
Street. But all this changed in 1998 when the overhead of the Audubon gallery grew too high. Artspace was forced to "retrenc• 
and reinvent" itself, said K.auder, and eventually moved into 220 College Street, a Yale-donated space that Bernstein described 
18 
THE NEW JouRl'tl 



**Artspace's Mission: Redefining Perceptions of Art**
**Author: Jessica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Artspace, a non-profit organization located in a former factory building on Audubon Street, is described as "chameleon-like." The room is void of 
decoration, giving the artists great free-
dom to install their pieces as they see fit. 
With each exhibit, the space is reinvented. 
When I visited untitled (space), there 
was no exhibit and nothing to see except 
the stack beauty of the room itself. I 
quickly realized the delicate humor of the 
situation. Standing in this barren gallery, I 
was enacting Artspace's mission: to 
redefine perceptions of art. Each click of 
my camera's shutter was an effort to turn 
this basement gallery bereft of art into a 
work of art itself.


Ten minutes later I walked through a 
fence on Chapel Street into a collection of 
painted rocks that traced a spiral around 
my feet and provided a sharp contrast to 
the surrounding brick walls and piles of 
glass and dirt that filled the once-aban-
doned lot I stood in. I had come to pho-
tograph Artspace's newest project, the 
New Haven Labyrinth, or "the Lot," as 
Kauder and Bernstein insistently called it, 
underscoring both the innovative use of 
this space and its transient nature. The 
labyrinth, which is composed of rocks decorated by New Haven residents ranging from elementary school students to cancer 
patients, was opened on January 1, 2000, and will soon be dismantled. "The labyrinth has transformed the way people see Chapel 
Street," said Bernstein. "They will never see it the same way again." But Bernstein and Kauder believe that after a few months 
people will stop noticing the labyrinth, and the lot will be no more to passing eyes than a vacant public space. They plan to intro-
duce a series of temporary projects, including a giant suspended chair, to keep the space engaging. Said Bernstein, "Change is 
necessary to keep people seeing." 
jessica Bulman, a sophomore in Berkeley College, is a managing editor ofTNJ.



**Yale's Ethnic Counselorship Program: A Flawed System?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 21**

YALE'S ETHNIC COUNSELORSHIP PROGRAM has always 
tried to help minority students make not only a change 
of address but also a major cultural leap upon their arrival in 
New Haven. "I think there's a dominant culture here at 
Yale," explains Roopa Purushothaman. "There's double-
consciousness. White students have the luxury of not 
knowing anything about me if they don't want to. But as a 
minority, I don't have that choice. I have to know both 
worlds." 

Purushothaman speaks with the conviction of a 
devoted leader, a strident activist, and an intimate friend. 
As one of only 13 ethnic counselors in Yale College, she 
assumes all three roles on a daily basis. For 
Purushothaman, who is Indian, a strong personal com-
mitment to diversity and her desire to ease the transition 
to college for Yale's minority freshmen motivate her to 
continue her efforts. She believes, however, that "the 
system is currently very flawed." 

Unlike a Yale freshman, the University's ethnic 
counselorship program cannot chalk up its current 
problems to transition difficulties. In fact, the pro-
gram is now almost 30 years old. In the early 1970s, 
Yale had only recently begun taking measures to 
accommodate many of the calls for reform that were 
then circulating. Along with many of its Ivy League 
peers, Yale first admitted women in the late 1960s 
and soon began recruiting more racial minorities. 
With activists such as Betty Friedan and Martin 
Luther King, Jr. preaching the gospel of equality, 
the message was clear: Yale must change its out-of-
date admissions practices or be left behind. Yale, 
to its credit, chose to change, and formed the eth-
nic counselorship program in 1972. 

Unfortunately, the early hope expressed for 
the program has been wearing thin. As new 
freshmen arrive on campus each September, 
new problems seem to surface. Supporters of the pro-
gram admit that it is too small to be effective, 
while antagonists claim that ethnic counselors 
foster the very divisiveness they seek to heal by 
singling out minorities for special attention. 

For instance, Aaron Honn wrote in the 
February 2, 1996, edition of the Yale Daily 
News that, "from racially exclusive fraternities 
and sororities to Yale's ethnic counselor pro-
gram, the emphasis seems to be on the 
maintenance of one's ethnic identity 
above all else ... Yale needs to get over 
race. It's not that big a deal." In response, 
the Black Student Union shot back only 
two days later, saying that "ignoring real-
ity hardly seems an appropriate, final 
word of advice ... We can't 'get over' 
APRIL 14, 2000
1 Hungerford 



**Lalibela Ethiopian Restaurant**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Lalibela 
Ethiopian 
Restaurant 
TraaitWnaf 'Etliiopian 'Dining 
Vegetarian Friendly 
Private Parties 
Catering 
Reservations Suggested 
J4cross from t& 'Yak Co-op 
176 Tempfe Street {203}789-1232 
Pleasing the senses 
since 1968 
"'New Haven's 
Village" 
c Candles and Clothing c 
c Jewelry and Tapestries c 
22 
At the Corner 
of Chapel & Park


<br>

**Yale's Ethnic Counselorship Program**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

something we have yet, fully and honestly, 
to face." 
Often, this rhetoric only serves to 
osuacize Yale's minorities. "I remember 
when I arrived at Yale, the first publication 
I saw was Light and Truth,'' recalls Vindia 
Fernandez. "They had this cartoon that 
portrayed ethnic minorities with stylized 
facial features that was very stereotypical 
and prejudicial. My first reaction was, Oh 
my God ... I didn't realize I could be per-
ceived as a threat to other people. I was 
really affected by it." She continues, "Yale is 
a very different place from where I grew up. 
community by automatically marking 
them out for special attention. 
Another problem is the randomness of 
the assignments: Korean-Americans to a 
Chinese-American counselor, Mexican-
Americans 
to 
a 
Puerto 
Rican. 
Purushothaman says, "I have tons of Asian-
American counselees but only two South 
Asian kids. East Asia and South Asia are 
two totally different cultures. That's a big 
issue that isn't being examined." 
Leah Walker, a multiracial freshman 
who considers 
herself part Mrican-
American, part Native American, and part 
When you're homesick 
or just need to talk co 
someone with a similar 
background, it's nice to 
have the support of an 
ethnic counselor." 
''THE MAJORI1Y OF THE 
WHITE STUDENT BODY 
Caucasian, feels the real 
cause of tension for Yale 
minorities is a lack of 
recognition that racial 
problems still exist at 
Yale. "The majority of 
DOESN'T TIIINK THERE'S AN 
ISSUE WITH RACE. PEOPLE 
The most common 
proposal for improving 
the program is to expand 
the number of ethnic 
counselors in order to 
ARE UKE 'EVERYIHING'S 
the white student body 
FAIR AND EQUAL,' WHEN 
ALL TilE CUSTODIAL PEOPLE 
doesn't think there's an 
issue with race. People 
are like 'evetything's fair 
and equal,' when all the 
custodial 
people 
are 
ARE BLACK." 
encourage greater con-
tact between counselors and counselees. 
Currently, the approximately 400 ethnic 
minority freshman are divided among the 
13 ethnic counselors, so each counselor is 
assigned anywhere from 40 to 70 students, 
compared to about 20 students per fresh-
man counselor. "The point of being a 
counselor is tO be a net," Purushothaman 
points out, "But with so many students to 
look afrer, sometimes it's hard." 
Another proposed solution is to do 
away with ethnic counselor assignments 
altogether. Purushothaman herself thinks 
chat this is a viable plan. "I fed like assign-
ing is outdated. Maybe giving incoming 
freshmen more of a choice in choosing a 
counselor would be a good change." 
Students who indicate their starus as a 
minority on their initial Yale application 
are automatically assigned to an ethnic 
counselor when they come to Yale. Instead 
of this system, Purushothaman and others 
suggest that ethnic counselors could 
become 'ethnic liaisons' and simply make 
themselves available to anyone who wants 
to seek them out. "That way," says 
Purushorhaman, "students who aren't 
minorities could link to minority commu-
nities if they wanted to." This change 
might satisfy critics who contend that the 
program seals minorities off from the Yale 
black." Despite the enormous changes in 
Yale's recruiting and admissions policies 
since the late 196os, a mere seven percent of 
the student body University-wide is 
African-American. In comparison, African-
Americans make up about 13% of the gen-
eral U.S. population. 
Walker, however, feels that racial ten-
sion at Yale is created not only by the 
majority, but often arises from within the 
minority community. She recalls the Black 
Solidarity Conference that she attended 
earlier this year, where "there was so much 
angry poetry," she states. "It was weird. 
They had covered up all the portraits of the 
old white men in the Silliman dining hall 
with black doth so that they wouldn't have 
to look at them. The mood was just very 
angry and violent, which I disapprove oC 
Maritza Baez, a student of Puerto Rican 
descent, agrees that no one group is solely 
responsible for racial tensions at Yale. "I 
belong to a multi-ethnic sorority, Lambda 
Psi Delta. A couple of groups only wanted 
to have people from their race [in the soror-
ity]. They said that everyone was welcome, 
but they weren't. I found that irritating.,. 
She adds, "The exclusivity needs to go. I'm 
a person first." 
Walker feels her biggest challenge as a 
minority at Yale isn't the ethnic counselor-



**Title: How Joseph Heller learned to stop worrying and love the bomb**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
How Joseph Heller learned to stop worrying and love the bomb 
advertising would later resurface in the bleak Something HappnmJ, 
his second novel.) While writing copy in the advertising depart-
ments of Time, Look, and finally McCall's magazines, Heller would 
squeeze in work on his novel-at night, seated at his dinner table, 
or surreptitiously at the office. In November of 1961, after eight 
uninterrupted years of writing, Catch-22 appeared to giddy reviews 
from some and harsh criticism from others. Richard Stern, who 
reviewed Catch-22 for The New York Times, said the book was "a 
collection of anecdotes, some of them finely assembled, yes," but 
"much too long," "repetitive," "monotonous," and "certainly no , 
I 
Five years after the 
breakthrough success 
of Catch-zz,joseph 
Heller cam.e to Yale to 
stage his first play. 
But would ~Bombed 
in New Haven live up 
to its tide? 
novel." Another reviewer, 
John Pine, called Catch-u 
"tedious" and recommended 
it only for libraries with large • 
collections of fiction. 
But there was also a 
rather vocal group of readers 
who thought otherwise. The 
novelist Nelson Algren, writ-
ing in The Nation, claimed 
Heller's book was not only 
"the best American novd to 
come out of World War u" 
but also simply "the best 
American novel.. .in years." 
Amidst the salvos of critics 
favorable and not, the book 
circulated quietly for a few 
years. After the poor reviews 
and negative publicity died 
down, most readers only came to Catch-22 via word-of-mouth. 
Soon enough Yossarian would become everyone's favorite survivor, 
and Catch-22 the novel that everyone was reading. 
In telling the story of John Yossarian, a bombardier who spends 
much of the novel trying to have himself declared insane and there-
fore unable ro fly another mission, Heller drew on many of his own 
experiences in the war, but always deflected attempts to connect 
Yossarian's nihilism with his own view of life at the time. "I am not 
Yossarian," Heller once said. "He is who I might like to have been, 
had I .the knowledge then that I now have." 


It is hard to overstate the importance of Catch-22 in American 
cultural and polirical life. Before Catch-22, American war writing 
consisted of a dozen variations on a single traditional theme. In 1M 
Red Badge of Courage, A Fa~ell to Arms, and even more contem-
porary works such as The Naked and the Dead and The Thin Ret/ 
Line, the soldier's experience in war invariably takes the form of the 
bildungsroman, a story of a young person's education and arrival 
into the world. After World War I, the tales usually featured a young 
man disillusioned by his service in the war. After Heller, the sea-
soned and aged veteran replaced the inexperienced charge as pro-
tagonist. Prolonged hysteria and rampant paranoia, taken up again 
by the war films of the 1970S and '8os, became the dominant keys 
in which the stories of war were told. Most importantly, war could 
finally be funny. After Catch-22, novels such as Slaughterhouse-Five 
and Grttvityi RAinbow could be written, and films such as Dr. 
Smtn~low could be produced. 

Set during World War II and written in the 1950S, Catch-22 
missed by a decade or so the war in which Milo Minderbinder and 
Major Major Major Major might have been depicted most fitting-
ly. And yet despite its faintly anachronistic references to the 
McCarthy era, no other work of fiction inspired more students and 
young people as the antiwar movement grew or represented the 
folly of napalm diplomacy so well. By the mid-196os, draft dodgers 
began wearing Army field jackets with "Yossarian Lives" name.tags, 
and Nnusw«lt wrote about the "Heller cult." Catch-22, although 
not directly about Vietnam, became the most compemng and pop-
ular story of the war's nightmarish realities, and of our country's 
namdess agents of orange: 
· vou mean there's a catch?" 
•sure there's a catch," Doc Daneeka replied. 
•earch-11. Anyone who wants to get out of combat 
duty really isn't crazy." 
Thete was only one catch and that was Cacch-22, 
which specified that a concern for one's own safety in 
the face of dangers that were real and immediate was the 
process of a rational mind. Orr was crazy and could be 
grounded. All he had to do was ask; and as soon as he 
did, he would no longer be crazy and would have to fly 
more missions. Orr would be crazy to fly more missions 
and sane if he didn't, but if he was sane he had to fly 
them. If he Bcw them he was crazy and didn't have to; 
but if he didn't want to he was sane and had to. 
Yossarian was moved very deeply by the absolute sim-
plicity of this clause of Carch-11 and let out a respectful 
wtWde. 
•That's some catch, that Catch-22," he observed. 
•Jt's the best there is," Doc Danecka agreed. 
Carm-u, as the critic Alfred Kazin observed, is a fantasy made 
real by historical events, another variable in the question of whether 
an imitates life or the other way around. In the four decades since 
its first publication, the novel has been rranslated into more than 20 


**Joseph Heller's *We Bombed in New Haven***
**Author: Ronm Givony**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A full-page advertisement for *The New Journal* is found on page 28, followed by an article about Joseph Heller's play, *We Bombed in New Haven*.  The article details the play's production at Yale, the student protests surrounding the Vietnam War, and the mixed reception of the play.  It also discusses Heller's subsequent career and the relative lack of success of his later works compared to *Catch-22*.  The article concludes with a reflection on Heller's legacy and his blurring of the lines between fiction and reality.


**Fare-ing badly**
**Author: Sydney Leavens**
**Page number(s): 30**

While Metro Taxi stalls, the meter 
by Sydney Leavens 

0 
NE LATE FRIDAY AFTERNOON, as commuter traffic was at its 
peak in New Haven, Metro Taxi drivers were lining up as 
always in from of Union Station--only that day, they were nor 
picking up the businessmen and students who gathered by the taxi 
stop. An estimated 6o cab drivers gathered co join a one-lane pro-
cession that would circle the New Haven Green and Yale campus 
several times. I joined Donel Ballaird, one of four spokesmen for 
the Metro Taxi drivers. Ballaird's car was third in the procession, 
and from the rear window I watched the line of cabs, each adorned 
with blue rally balloons, snake around the Green behind us. As we 
passed Phelps Gate, I saw students hunched over the nearby blue 
phone, black suitcases at their sides, angrily making call after fran-
-'-"' ..... -••• call. 

Ballaird pointed ar his computer screen and whisded in amaze-
"Look at all those jobs!• Thanks ro Metro T~'s high-tech 
11:;t;:Orrlpu.cer dispatch system, he could count them as rbey built up. 
people were waiting at Sr. Raphael's Hospital, aad another 
had called in from the train station. He counted 15 trusrrated 
~~ ·pie in all, waiting co be picked up by cabs. 

Ballaird knew he was nor the only one eyeing the computer 
,...~r"'l'n. Metro Taxi owner Bill Scalzi would also see the increasing 
of waiting custOmers from the company's headquarters in 
F.t~u~, Haven. The 6o drivers who participated in cbe March 31 
II:'J.:iftl•rot:est sacrificed their most profitable hours of busiacss co make 
l~il'llfl"::::ar ro Scalzi their determination to unionize. In "Our lime Has 
~~U..:Orne," a letter encouraging Metro Taxi drivers to join the fight to 
'!.~uu•Dru~, steering committee secretary Briao MacFarlane outlined 
the goals of the protest. "Our most important campaign right now 
is to unite and attempt to gain the power to negotiate a fair contract 
that allows us the power to control our work conditions. We should 
have the ability to control our leases, set credits for downtime, and 
to prevent unfair work practices such as the non-fault accident 
penalty." 

Metro Taxi drivers began to push for collective bargaining 
rights five weeks ago when, on March 7, Scalzi atlOOunced that. he 
was raising weekly lease rates by $So--from $640 tO $720 a week 
for new cars and from $6xo to $690 for older models. Mike 
Cacioppo, another of the spokesmen for the protesting drivers, 
explained that the new rates, coupled with inflated gas prices, drove 
weekly operating costs to alm01t $xooo. "Most cab drivers have co 
work 14 to 16 hours a day, scwa1 days a week, to make enough 
money to live," he told me. DriYen were not satisfied when Scalzi 
lowered the rates by $)0 as a r....,.-:ary measure to offset the rise in 
gas prices. They wanted the ~to 
negotiate. "(Scalzi] doesn't 
recognize us as spokesmen fo.- chc other cab drivers, even though 
the other cab drivers picke<{ us llO be spokesmen for them," 
Cacioppo c:x:plained co me. "~try to work with him, bur he won't 
work with us. Everything be doa. tie does ro benefit him." 

Scalzi, however, claimed -- Ia QOt againsc unions in general, 
bur cannot"5Upporr his drivers~ proposed union because it is illegal. 
According to Scalz.i, his driv 
Me independent contJ"actors and 
thus are nor entided co Ol'gania. Tbe Connecticut Dcpamnem of 
Transportation agrees. "Two by things denote an employee-
employer relationship, [rellingl cfriftrs when to work and [tying) 
the revenue [the business coUCIICIS] with the dtiftr's revenue: Scalzi 



**Title: The Metro Taxi Dispute**
**Author: Sydney Leavens**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
is ticking 
explained. "[At Metro Taxi] drivers are our customers, not our 
employees. The driver doesn't have to use our computer dispatch 
system. He doesn't even have to do a job. Once they pay us, they 
could park the car in a driveway all day, it doesn't matter. I didn't 
write the union laws. Period. End of story. What they are trying to 
do is not allowable by law." 

I met with Scalzi the morning of the protest in his office at 
Metro Taxi headquarters. It is a small, unassuming building with 
fading letters on the exterior. A trailer connected on its left side is 
home to Scalzi's office, a cozy room furnished with a desk and chair, 
two leather chairs for meetings, a large computer, and dozens of 
photographs of his children. He thanked an employee who brought 
him a cup of Dunkin' Donuts coffee, which he proceeded to mix 
with a pen. "Old habit," he winked. 

For all his informality, however, the success of Metro Taxi has 
proven Bill Scalzi an excellent businessman. He began the compa-
ny in 1987, when public transportation, he said, "was pretty pathet-
ic." He bought operating rights for 109 taxis from a company that 
was going out of business and began with 15 cabs, gradually increas-
ing numbers as demand, and his revenue, grew. Now, he operates all 
109 cabs and claims that there is unmet demand for more. "Up until 
this past winter, there were no complaints [that our cabs weren't 
arriving when people requested them]. This past winter, there 
were 
defused with complaints. We didn't have enough vehicles 
on 
the road." In a move that he said will hopefully lower waiting time 
for cabs, Scalzi has applied to the State Department of 
Transportation for a certificate to operate 30 more vehicles. The 
Department 
will hold a hearing to determine whether there is a 
need for more taxis in New Haven, and will decide whether to 
grant Scalzi his request by April 27. 

In the meantime, Scalzi said he has tried to improve service by 
increasing the efficiency of his company and the quality of his cabs. 
He has added a fleet of new cabs and a state of the art computer sys-
tem, which has cut down response time from an average of over 15 
minutes to 8.2. Metro Taxi will also break ground this summer on 
a new facility that will allow for more dispatchers and computer 
space. 

Such improvements, he said, require more capital, which 
Metro Taxi can only raise by increasing the weekly lease that taxi 
drivers pay. He added that cab drivers were compensated for this 
lease increase by the Transportation Department's raised meter 
rate--a change that Scalzi himself had petitioned for--that went 
into effect on March 5. "That's why we raised lease rates when we 
did," he explained. In fact, Scalzi argued that the new meter rates 
more than compensate for the higher lease payments. According to 
Scalzi, the new lease rates channel one-third of the increased 
revenue of the new meter rates to the company while allowing drivers 
to keep two-thirds of the profit. "Drivers make more than they did 
before with the increased meter and lease rates," he asserted. 

Additionally, Scalzi's temporary compensation for increased 
prices was meant to show drivers that he is in touch with their 
needs. "The only reason that there is such a hubbub right now over 
raised rates is that they came at the same time as gasoline prices 
increased," he argued. "But the drivers are our consumers, and we want 
[to create] a work environment for them that makes them want 
[to lease from us]." 


--- Page 32 ---

dent contractors. The UAW helped both 
groups hold rallies and parades similar to 
the one Metro Taxi workers recently held. 
Ted Feng, a UAW representative who 
attended the March 31 protest, said he is 
optimistic about the possibility of a Metro 
Taxi drivers' union. "We've got a big problem 
here. Any policy the cab owner puts 
into place is imposed upon cab drivers, not 
negotiated." In fact, Feng and Donna 
Becotte, an international representative in 
organizing for the UAW, feel that New 
Haven Metro Taxi drivers' claim to 
employee status is a strong one, perhaps 
even stronger than that of the drivers in 
Stamford and Darien. "These guys might 
lease cars, but [Scalzi] controls most of 
their work lives," she asserted. "He determines 
how much money they have to pay 
to lease the car, what insurance they get 
and how much they pay for it. Anything 
that deals with their work lives has to go 
through him." 

The case may not be as clear-cut as the 
UAW makes it seem. Scalzi argued that, 
while he does not face great competition 
from other cab companies, he does from 
other lines of work. "Driving a cab isn't the 
only industry in the world. It's competitive 
with any other job. We don't stay in the 
business by treating [our drivers] badly," he 
points out. Even if drivers are set on driving 
a cab, it is not uncommon for them to seek 
leases with companies in other cities. 
"Guys from Portland and Bridgeport drive 
for me. If they're not happy, [drivers] can 
go up to Hartford, Waterbury, 
or Bridgeport." 

Moreover, other cab 
companies 
complain 
that job applicants are 
few and inexperienced, 
weakening Metro dri-
vers' claims that they have no 
other options. Doug Vine, 
owner of New Haven Yellow 
Cab, told me that Metro Taxi 
attracts 
better 
drivers. 
"[Scalzi] is going through 
hundreds and hundreds of 
drivers, and we end up with the people he 
doesn't want." New Haven Yellow Cab's 
owner-operator leases may be over $100 
cheaper than Scalzi's now, but he said that 
he is considering raising these leases to $425 
or $450 a week, only $40 to $70 cheaper. 

Scalzi's higher prices may also be offset by 
services that other New Haven cab compa-
nies do not offer. As cabdriver Tahseen 
Kazmi grudgingly admitted, the computer 


--- Page 33 ---

dispatch service, unique to Metro Taxi in 
New Haven, has increased revenue for dri-
vers. 

Scalzi disputes the claim that his leases 
force drivers to work unreasonable hours. 
"[Weekly drivers are] charged for six days, 
we don't expect them to work for seven 
days. The seventh day is yours: if you want 
to drive, you can," he said. "I have some 
drivers who only work five and a half days 
a week." However, many drivers complain 
that he does not credit them for the time 
spent waiting at the company's garage for 
tune-ups. Scalzi claims that downtime is 
minimal. "Drivers have to come in once 
every two and a half to three weeks for ser-
vicing that lasts 45 minutes to three hours," 
he explained. Since he feels that they 
receive a free day of revenue each week, 
Scalzi believes that drivers are more than 
compensated for this small amount of 
time. He added that if cars need more 
work, he readily loans drivers a car if one is 
available. "We don't have enough cars on 
the road, so the spare cars we have available 
dwindle to almost nothing. That is not the 
fault of Metro Taxi. We've applied for more 
cabs and hopefully the Department of 
Transportation will see clear to granting 
our request." 

Scalzi pointed out that not all Metro 
Taxi drivers are pressing to unionize. He 
leases cabs to over 100 drivers, so the 
involvement of 60 in rallies is perhaps not 
all that daunting. "Go out to the train sta-
tion and you'll see 30 cars working," he 
said. "Most [drivers] are not interested in 
union talks." But in contrast to the eager-
ness that protesters expressed in speaking to 
me, not a single driver who has not joined 
the organizers would allow me to reveal his 
name for this article. One told me he 
thought Scalzi a fair businessman, but that 
he did not want to go on the record as say-
ing so, for fear of being ostracized by his 
peers. Another told me he would join the 
union, but he believes Metro Taxi drivers 
do not have a shot at obtaining the rights 
to organize. 

Moreover, the drivers have few outside 
supporters. Robert Cumpstone, manager 
of Motor Transport Services at the 
Department of Transportation, said that he 
has received numerous phone calls from 
the spokesmen for the Metro Taxi organiz-
ers, but must tell them he has no jurisdic-
tion over their concerns. "I sit as a neutral 
party. The driver will certainly be given the 
courtesy of [my] listening--and then I 
explain the rules, regulations and statutes 
that prohibit our department from inter-
vening." Cumpstone said that he refers 
callers to the Department of Labor, which 
might be better equipped to address their 
concerns. 

While Scalzi has argued that indepen-
dent contractors are "customers" of the taxi 
company, 
the 
of 
Transportation does not treat them as such. 
If, 
as 
Cumpstone 
explained, 
this 
Department does not seek to regulate lease 
rates because its role is to serve the public, 
then taxi drivers are not considered among 
the customers that it protects. As indepen-
dent contractors, taxi drivers are apparent-
ly neither customers nor employees, but 
occupy a nebulous middle ground. 

The dispute between Bill Scalzi and 
some of his Metro Taxi drivers is less a story 
of heroes and villains than of one business-
man who needs clearer rulebooks. Scalzi's 
voice rose indignantly on the phone when 
I called for his response to some of his dri-
vers' accusations. "Those insinuations are 
like fingernails on blackboards to me," he 
said. "I wouldn't have been able to grow 
from 15 cabs to 109 by treating my cab dri-
vers poorly. I challenge any driver out of 
the present or past to show me somebody 
who's gotten a bad deal. It hasn't hap-
pened." In the case of the Metro Taxi dri-
vers, it all depends on whose story you 
believe. 

33 


**Title: Boycott Myrtle Beach**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
They pointed out that the Myrtle Beach "tradition" was only about 
6ve years old. Other schools, such as Swarthmore, Haverford, 
Temple, and Duke, had decided to move their spring break or 
training out of South Carolina. Now these Yalies just had to 
convince the majority of the senior class that the majority of the 
senior class was changing their mind.
express trenchant support for 
the forum. Look on the air of a high school student council
cent of the Yale freshman class was 
to raise their hands and object to the pro-
of mostly white college students
Freedom
Not everyone I've talked to thinks this is a woe-
Summer to register voters and campaign for
said Adam Gordon. "Virginia has just as many race
In 2000, segregation is illegal. This January, the
South Carolina." Josh Kagan, a native Southerner, said
Association for the Advancement of Colored People
Beach was too cold for swimming in May and that the
of Myrtle Beach were "liberals" who would be punished
comes down. About seven percent of the Yale freshman class is
black. And hundreds of mostly white college students are planning
said Josh. "Almost everyone we talked to was in favor
of the Confederate flag coming down, but a lot of people offered a
range of reasons that boycotting is not the way to get the flag
down . . . My sense was that a lot of people for whatever reason wanted
to figure out a way that going to Myrtle Beach was okay."
Maybe it was because they were discussing remote symbols,
peripheral to their daily lives. Most of the people involved in the
campaign had spent very little time in the South, and most, it
seemed, had little direct experience with racism. Meanwhile, the
black community at Yale was far from spearheading this campaign.
Thorn Cantey, the lone black student at the first meeting, said, "I
felt a sort of directed ambivalence about this thing. The whole concept of going to support a Southern beach at all has no great appeal
for me." The Black Student Alliance at Yale (BSAY) lent their voice
to the February 28 press conference called by Ingber and her friends
and put up a few flyers. But their basic attitude towards the campaign was summed up by Eliada Nwosu, a leader of BSAY: "I am not
surprised by the lack of support the boycott is getting from our
senior class . . . I am fully aware that there are those who redefine passivity as far as political action is concerned and could not be convinced otherwise."
the February 21 forum and the February
meeting. In the forces of passivity gathered. There were YDN
letters to the editor, and flyers reading, "SENIOR CLASS
BOYCOTT." In a YDN editorial, Kagan repeated his argument
Myrtle Beach was the most liberal part of South Carolina
the local merchants had publicly declared their opposition
to the file. "A boycott of an entire state is unprecedented and, to
me, paranoid." Jay Van Sciver suggested a less drastic alternative
I counted 27 seniors at that first
of them black. "This is going to be a
everyone's concerns to be
a range of
What if concerned members of the senior class
concerns that would
by Kristen
legislature to voice our opinion in protest on a specific
Armstrong, In
Senior Week? After all, we could show our disapproval
hearts and
of the flag and bring beer." In general, the pro-Myrtle Beach front
a town mile
to
argued on the basis of tradition, unity, and the essential unimportance of merely symbolic gestures--exactly the same line taken by
flag-wavers in the South Carolina legislature.


Meanwhile, members of the Yale community old enough to remember Freedom
Summer greeted the controversy with a
combination of bitterness and bewilderment. Glenda Gilmore, a native North
Carolinian and professor of Southern history, in a statement at the anti-Myrtle press
conference, said, "If someone had told me
during the civil rights movement that the
Confederate flag would be flying over
South Carolina in the year 2000, I would
have laughed at them. There are times in
your life to make a stand, even if it is
inconvenient, even if you lose your
deposit." Barbara Strauss, a self-described
"middle-aged, Republican mother of a Yale
undergraduate," wrote the YDN expressing
her incredulity at the controversy's very
existence: "What could you be thinking?
Your parents and prior generations of Yale
students filled buses, and risked their lives
traveling down South to take a stand for
civil rights in the '60s. Not to mention,
how could you be so insulting to the students of color in your own class? This is not
a tough call. You don't have to take over a
building. You don't have to march on
Selma. Just take your week in the sun on
some other stretch of beach."
The Yale Administration, on the other
hand, does seem to find the scale of the
Confederacy to be a tough call. Lury Hau,
the Director of Public Affairs, told me,
"The Administration has not taken a position on this controversy." The students
made several efforts to get, if not support,
then at least a public statement on
the controversy. Rodberg said, "We have
asked, and parents have written asking
for the Administration to take a stand, as a
matter of moral leadership." The only
stance Yale officially took was not to move
the men's and women's track team training
over spring break out of South Carolina.
Gilmore
said
in
defense
of
the
Administration's inaction, "It is not the
Administration's place to dictate to students decisions of conscience. It is each student's responsibility to search his or her
heart and determine whether going to
vacation under the Confederate flag is a
good idea." Her support of the boycott,
however, and the support of other faculty
members like Rogers M. Smith, a native
South Carolinian, lent moral authority to
APRIL 14, 2000
the cause, partly because they were among
the few Southerners to speak publicly on
the issue.
Back in South Carolina, the controversy over the relic of a 135-year-old, defeated
government continues to smolder. State
legislators remain adamant, declaring the
flag a historic symbol of Southern independence, not of slavery or racism. But the
boycott seems to be having some effect. A
February poll cited by the Columbus, SC
Dispatch found that 67% of voters in the
state
support
removal of the
Confederate flag from its position atop
the dome to a
Statehouse office.  The
senior
class's
decision, one keeps
spend Dead
large number
plans. For example,
the author of an email
choice of leisure activities
who changed his or
the Myrtle Beach
claim a tangible, if minor,
Anya Kamenetz, a sophomore at Davenport
College, is a managing editor of TNJ.


**Title: Can't Buy Me Love**
**Author: Eric Rothfeder**
**Page number(s): 36**

ROBERT LANE BEGINS HIS NEW BOOK, The Loss of
Happiness in Market Democracies, by highlighting a
central irony: market capitalism and democracy are products of a utilitarian philosophy of happiness, yet the
advancement of these systems creates an increasingly unhappy society. Despite postwar economic and social gains, studies report a
significant decline in the number of Americans who consider themselves happy, as well as a growing incidence of depression and suicide. Why are today's Americans unhappier than their parents and
grandparents? Lane, the Eugene Meyer Professor Emeritus of
Political Science at Yale University, attempts to answer his question
in this thought-provoking, if highly contestable, book.

Drawing on the fields of philosophy, biology, genetics, psychology, and economics, Lane explains his basic premise: social relations make us happiest and market economics and democracy draw
us further from those relations. As a society develops into an
advanced market democracy, he contends, there is a decline in happiness.

The statistics Lane cites regarding the decline of happiness in
America are less than staggering, but, given the economic and political advances of the past decades, any decline seems strange.
Between 1972 and 1994, the number of Americans who considered
themselves "very happy" declined by about five percent. The incidence of depression rose by a larger percentage. Lane quotes from a
study finding that, "of those Americans born before 1955, only one
percent had suffered a major depression by age 75; of those born
after 1955, six percent had become depressed by age 24 [sic]." The
study also suggested that "now about a quarter of the population
experiences some of the clinical symptoms of depression during
some portion of their lifetime."

Having established the problem, Lane attacks the market's ability to make us happy. Market economies are often justified by their
ability to maximize consumer choice to best fulfill material desires.
But do more goods make people happier? Most Americans think so.
Without giving precise statistics, Lane refers to a study that found
that "most people believe that a 25% pay increase would make them
more satisfied with their lives." And yet, those whose "incomes are
now at that higher level are not, in fact, happier or more satisfied
with their lives." Lane uses the psychological theory of the "hedonic treadmill" to explain this phenomenon: "if desires, expectations,
and standards of comparison increase as rapidly as achievements, or
at least attainments, no increase in income, no matter how large,
will increase SWB [subjective well being]." Lane argues that "in
advanced countries, above the poverty level, this relationship
The Loss of Happiness
In Market
Democracies
BY ROBERT E. LANE
between level of income and level of SWB
is weak or nonexistent. Thus, the rich are
no more satisfied with their lives than the
merely comfortable, who in turn are only
slightly, if at all, more satisfied with their lives
than the lower middle classes."

While Lane's arguments are convincing
and often perceptive, one wonders if this all isn't just common
sense. Isn't Lane using statistics and technical jargon to tell us what
our parents have told us for years: money doesn't make us happy?
Lane's analysis becomes more original in later chapters, but as he
departs from familiar ground, his reasoning breaks down.

Lane argues not only that money does not add to our happiness, but also that the pursuit of it drives us away from our friends
and family. He claims that "the cost of market efficiency, and therefore of wealth, was the sacrifice of family and friendship relations in
economic affairs." For example, employers' choice of workers is
supposedly based upon merit "uncontaminated by cronyism or
nepotism" as they pursue profit at the cost of companionship and
family. Lane may be correct to argue that we would be happier in a
job surrounded by family and friends rather than the most efficient
and productive of strangers. Perhaps we find cronyism and nepotism appalling not because they reduce profit, but because these
practices are unethical. Lane ignores this possibility as well as the
continuing prevalence of such favoritism.

Lane points to the "devaluation" of children as a cause of
unhappiness in family life. "Children have now lost much of their
value as human capital and are, instead, rather expensive consumer
goods." Lane points to the significant decline in time women spend
with their children (men report a slight increase in family time) and
the declining birthrate as evidence of this devaluation. I am skeptical of his argument. Lane only fleetingly mentions birth control's
relation to declining birthrates and fails to note the impact of feminism on domestic life. If there is a decline in the quantity of time
parents spend with their child, this does not mean there is a decline
in quality of time. And even if parents choose to have fewer children for financial reasons, this does not mean the children are less
loved or that they grow up less happily.

If market capitalism fails to make a society happy, perhaps we
should turn to the government for help. But Lane also targets
democracy as a cause of the rising tide of unhappiness in America.
In the second half of his book, Lane explains how democratic
processes are "generally painful, fail to contribute to good cheer in
democratic publics, and contribute to an unhappiness-negativity



**The Pain of Democracy**
**Author: Eric Rothfkr**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
syndrome." Yet he does not claim that 
there is any system better than democracy. 
He also admits that democracy has "other 
business" {e.g., admin~tering justice and 
defending civil rights) besides making irs 
citizens happy. Lane, however, claims that, 
"across politics at all levels of development, 
the presence of democracy ... is unrelated to 
average SWB." Lane refers to several studies 
that show that neither equality nor civil 
and political rights contribute to happi-
ness. "How can this be?" he asks. Lane 
answers that "people fight to the death to 
gain these rights, but, as with income, once 
achieved, they adapt to their good fortune. 
They take their rights for granted." 

Another cause of our unhappiness is 
the inherent pain of the democratic 
process. Democracy asks that irs citizens 
take a position on difficult social problems. 
Political participation is painful because 
thinking about social problems "may cause 
internal 
conflicts" 
and 
"quarrels." 
Furthermore, "the resolution of those quar-
rels will injure one side or another," 
"acknowledging the presence of these prob-
lems is painful," and "the implied or open 
conflict of values is painful because it hurts 
to find one's values chatlenged or scorned." 
Lane believes this unhappiness is manifest-
ed in the increasing number of Americans 
who report "community, national, and 
world problems" as sources of unhappiness. 
Between 1957 and 1976, this number 
almost doubled to 24%. But, are people 
made unhappy by the problems themselves 
or by the political discussions that ensue? I 
imagine that the Columbine shootings 
caused more unhappiness than did the 
political discussions which they precipitat-
ed. 

Voting, apparently, is also a great 
source of pain. Lane applies a cost-benefit 
analysis to voting: 
The traditional way of assessing 
the coscs or pains of participation is to 
compare the effort and time involved in 
voting with the likelihood that one's 
vorcs will make the difference between 
winning and losing and, in an extended 
comparison, the likelihood that one wiiJ 
acrually receive the policy benefits from 
winning. It is no contest. As has often 
bcc:n noted, one is more likely co be run 
over on the way to the polls than to cast 
a winning vote. Hence the rational 
choice is to stay away from the polls. 
Lane doesn't mean that we should stop 
voting; rather, he explains why most people 
dislike it. While Lane's cost-benefit analysis 
may explain low rates of voting, it does not 
further his thesis. Of the 55% of Americans 
who voted in the 1996 presidential elec-
tions, I can't imagine the action detracted 
significantly from their SWB, nor does Lane 
offer any evidence that it did. 

Lane's most puzzling and problematic 
statements deal with the "deep and often 
irreconcilable tension between the univer-
salistic principles of democracy and the 
particularistic principles of companion-
ship." Lane believes that democracy 
inhibits, if not excludes, the principles that 
guide our social relations. Democracy 
makes us unhappy because our relation ro 
other citizens is unlike our relation to our 
friends and family. Moreover, while "com -
panionship relies on the familiar and the 
similar, democracy must include strangers 
and the unfamiliar and dissimilar." Again, I 
am skeptical of this argument. While 
democracy may exclude the principles of 
companionship, Lane gives no evidence 
that it inhibits acrual friendship. I also have 
no concern for the happiness of those who 
are so disturbed by democracy's inclusion 
of the different and dissimilar. Of course, 
my own antipathy toward the intolerant 
would serve as a demonstration of Lane's 
argumem if it led to my own unhappiness. 
Bur I'm nor losing any sleep over it. 

Lane succeeds in aslcing striking ques-
tions about our political and economic sys-
tem. His market analysis effectively shows 
how money fails to contribute to happiness 
and may even contribute ro unhappiness. 
While some of his arguments read like 
common 
sense, 
sense 
is 
suenghthened by concrete proof, whiLh 
Lane offers. Unfortunately, Lane's analysis 
of democracy could use a good dollop of 
the same common sense. I've presented 
some of my objections to these argument~. 
and I'm sure readers could quickly find 
their own. But perhaps no one should 
bother to read Lane's analysis of democra-
cy. In a cost-benefit analysis of the time and 
effort it rakes to read these chapters {and 
the possibility of incurring a paper cut), 
compared with the likelihood that Lane 
will persuade, there is no contest. 

Ill) 
Eric Rothfkr, a sophomo" in SaJbroolt 
Co/kg~. is associlttuditor of TNJ. 


**Yale Time**
**Author: Blake Wilson**
**Page number(s): 38**

You :-.-lAY HAVE NCrfliCEI+ifWI!' 
clocks around 
daylight savings. fw~cnl'lore, 
so often drift heavenw.lr« 
the: phenomenal and 
Tower's four dock faces 
the porch, they each seem tO 
bear the least eossiblc l'eSle~bl3!!9~llliD.I!II 
Standing outside of Linsly-Chittenden, you might be tempted to 
consult the dock face on the archway connecting Street Hall and 
the Art Gallery. T h ere, too, you would be misled; while not as 
prodigiously dishonest as Father Harkness, this child tells you nei-
ther the correct minute nor the correct hour. Saybrugians, of 
course, had their sixteen-hundred-dollar Geochron clock stolen this 
fall-but before we allow them too much sympathy, consider the 
rumor that it was never actually correctly set. 

I have read bewilderingly bad times from docks in OML and 
HGS, and I've heard that a clock in Beccon has its hands bent into 
acute angles. Harkness Tower used to be reliable; up until October 
I could still use it to tick off the minutes left in Latin through a con-
venient window in Phelps Hall. Now it has been broken for six 
months. Yale Vision, the cable channel that Yale purchased and left 
as a blank blue screen with no programming save the time. was 
never taken off daylight savings. Ironically, because no one ever 
touched it, it now does tell the right time. Not content with all of 
this, I spoke with President Levin's secretary about the Harkness 
problem in mid-November. I was told that the time would be set 
again by Spring Break, a manageable deadline that has nevertheless 
come and gone. This afternoon I've been waiting for Nina fMm 
Levin's office to call me back. I've volunteered, you see, to solve this 
problem myself. I just need a lead: whom do I call, and where in 
Yale's trackless bureaucracy are the keys for winding these cloclts? 
Nina still hasn't called. 

The alarm clock in my room is wrong as well. My roommate 
liiUtch five or ten minures fast is a 
~ay;l!lscar~urself into not being late, 
extremes: half an hour, 
'$very day it's different. 
to fool himself, he says, and if 
doclc is running when he wakes up, he'll 
........... ~r )10U 
me a slave co time without a clock, 
or a slave to clocks without the time. We invented both, and we 
realize that they are contrivances, but we still cower at their feet. 
Bedtime nips at our heels from breakfast, chasing us through an 
arbitrary schedule and down the to-do list of today's nonnegotiable 
deadlines. How often do we do our work instead of spending time 
with friends? How often do we play Windows solitaire instead of 
doing our work instead of spending rime with friends? 

English idiom provides us with a question: do we find tim~ or 
malt~ time? Are the 24 hours of the day a zero-sum game, or can we 
create space in our lives for the things we don't have to do by tomor-
row, out of the bits and ends of our idleness and lying on the couch? 
We are very busy here, and we aren't likely to find ourselves sponta-
neously motivated to do anything when we punch out for the day. 
But if we add another item to the list-a coffee date or another 
paper to write--we still get it all done. If we play a dub spore, or 
take an extra class, those eight hours a week do not come out of 
important time with friends or in the library, but from some 
untapped reserve. Our lives get more hectic, yet we add more action 
than we take away. 

On any given day, I'm sure that President Levin, his secretary, 
and the staff in the physical plant all have something more pressing 
to do than tend to the clocks around campus. In the meantime, 
though, we've all trudged by them so many times that our eyes 
glaze. and !-because I srubbornly won't wear a watch-am always 
late. It's as absurd as it sounds: Yale doesn't have the time to set the 
time. 

Blak~ Wilson, a sophomo~ in Branforti Co/kr~. is a circulations ana subscriptions manager for TN]. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 


A DIVISION OF YALE UNIVERSITY 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES 
":-
REPROGRAPHICS 
& IMAGING SERVICES 
155 Whitney Avenue • 432-6560 
FAX: 432-6274 
http://www.yale.edu/ris 




·Black & Whi1~ 
Call TY ~~ 
For All Your 
BINDING 
BUSINESS CARDS 
CANON COLOR COPIES 
CASSETTE COPYING 
CUSTOM COLOR CREATIONS 
DESKTOP PUBUSHING 
FAXING 
KODAK COPYING 
LAMINAOO 
rCOLOR 
First 
Needs 
LARGE DOCUMENT COPYNi 
LARGE FORMAT COLOR 
IIAiliG 
IIOUNTIG 
OFFSET PAINTIG 
PASSPORT PHOTOS 
... RESUMES 
· 
RtiBERSTAIIPS 
XEROX COPYIG 
.. 
262 Elm StreE New Haven 
(203) 562-9723 
FAX (203) 562-6256 • 1-888-TYCO COPY 
email tycocopy@snet.net 
www.tycocopy.coDl 

