Publication date: 12/89
Volume 22, Issue 3

**Lead in the Water**
**Author: Milena Novy and Stefanie Syman**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal found twice the proposed EPA limit for lead in a Law School drinking fountain.  According to Mood, an engineer at the Yale School of Epidemiology and Public Health, no such steps are necessary here. Yale's water complies with current EPA lead standards, he said. "There is no reason to believe that there are high levels of lead in Yale's water," said Mood. He has tested Yale water for more than ten years and analyzed samples taken randomly from Yale buildings including the Divinity School, the Medical School and the Yale Bowl. "Lead in water in this area, as far as I'm concerned, is a non-problem," said Mood. Although lead solder can dissolve into water that sits in Yale's pipes, Mood maintains that this is no cause for worry. "You need water standing for 12 to 15 hours," he said. "At Yale there is a constant flow. Only the first flush in the morning may contain lead." According to a Water Authority brochure, however, water that stands in pipes with lead solder for more than six hours poses a threat.


As Yale has expanded over the decades, additions and modifications have created a wildly complex plumbing system. According to Robert Proto, a plumber who has worked at Yale for 15 years, the University used lead piping until the mid-1960s. While Yale has replaced almost all lead piping with copper and galvanized steel since then, as recently as last year the physical plant removed lead pipes from the university provost's house. "There could be lead in different isolated areas, but by no means is it widespread," said Proto. Most dorms and Yale buildings receive water through copper pipes that existed years before the 1986 EPA ban, however, and lead solder in these pipes can contaminate the water. "All solder prior to the EPA ban contains lead," Proto said. Only residents in the most recently renovated buildings-Calhoun College and Lawrance and Welch Halls-drink their water from lead-free piping. Abbott criticizes Yale for responding slowly to the potential health threat. "Where there are all-tile walls, Yale won't rip walls out to replace pipes," he said. Most dormitory bathrooms have tile walls. "Yale is a nightmare under our nose," said Abbott.


The New Journal took water samples from seven locations at Yale-Dwight Hall, the Film Studies building, William L. Harkness Hall, the Law School, Sterling Memorial Library, Connecticut Hall, and Street Hall- and sent them to two labs for testing. The Institute of Analytical and Environmental Chemistry at the University of New Haven found 19ppb of lead in a sample from a Law School drinking fountain- almost twice the proposed EPA limit- and undetectable levels of lead in the other samples. According to tests by the Water Authority, Dwight Hall, the Film Studies building, and WLH had undetectable levels of lead. Copper levels in the samples tested by the Water Authority do not pose a health risk, but they do account for the metallic taste of Yale water. Dr. George L. Wheeler, who ran some of the tests, also found what he called "unidentifiable crud" in the Law School sample. "It may be dead bacteria killed by the chlorine that precipitates out onto the walls of the pipes," said Wheeler.


Anyone can find crud in the New Haven water for the price of a $10 test from the Water Authority. But even when tests show high levels of lead and other contaminants, neither the government nor building owners want to take responsibility. The Center Church Parish House on the New Haven Green had the highest levels of lead in the Advocate survey, at 160ppb-more than three times current EPA limits. But since the Advocate tested the church's water, neither the EPA nor the state Health Department has made the Center Church modify its water system... The church chose to ignore the results of the Advocate test. "We have made no response because we thought the tests were not representative of our water," said Paul Weisman, Center Church business manager and maintenance person. "The sample was taken from a faucet that had not been used for 24 hours."


Recently, however, the EPA proposed changing its standards, to apply before tap water has been flushed, and reducing maximum contaminant levels for lead from 50ppb to 10ppb. The new standards should clear up inconsistencies in testing. "Before now, the EPA has never specified how the sample was to be taken," said the EPA's Karalekas. New testing guidelines, along with the lower MCL, could lead to cleaner, safer drinking water. But it will be two years before the EPA proposals go into effect. Meanwhile, citizens like Borenstein and Abbott continue to press for more action. They want the state to account for the potential hazards in the water, and they are trying to get citizens to pressure the government and private institutions like Yale. Borenstein says he is frustrated by the consumer's lack of control. "The only input you have now is whether you turn the water on or off."


Milena Novy is a junior in Trumbull College. Stefanie Syman is an associate editor of TNJ.