Publication date: October 14, 1994
Volume: 27
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- PUBLISHER: Monica Fong
- ACTING EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Suzanne Kim
- MANAGING EDITORS: joshua Civin, David Gerber
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Dan Andrzejek
- DESIGNER: Kate Schuler
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Ted Gesing
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Katie Brandi
- CONTRIBUTING EDITOR: Jay Porter
- ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER: Christina Lung
- ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Melissa Moskof
- ASSOCIATE DESIGNER: joseph Varet
- ASSOCIATE PRODUCTION MANAGER: Gabriel Snyder
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Constance Clemenr, Perer B. Cooper, Andy Coutt, Brooks Kelly, Patricia Pierce, Karhy Reich, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, Jose Manuel Tesoro
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Paul S. Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, Perer B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffry Fried, Sherwin Goldman, Brooks Kelly, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Perers, Fairfax C. Randal, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tare, Alex and Bersy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardell, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- About this Issue - 
- Points of Departure - 
- Yalies Who Stay - Brooke Conti
- Breaking Bursar's Hold - Gabriel Snyder
- Goodbye, Columbus - Helen Kim
- Fables of the Deconstruction - Katherine Bell
- Tea Timeless - Elana Zeide
- $elling the $yllabus - Ted Gesing
- Between the Vines: Cornucopia of Capitalism - Joel Burges


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author:**  
**Page number(s): 7**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: Yalies Who Stay**
**Author: Brooke Conti**
**Page number(s): 21**

Four years not enough? A liberal education teaches some graduates to call the Elm City home.


**Title: Breaking Bursar's Hold**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 24**

Cash, class, and politics converge on College St.-ask anyone who's ever owed Yale money.


**Title: Goodbye, Columbus**
**Author: Helen Kim**
**Page number(s): 13**

Can tradition and apizza keep Wooster Square New Haven's little corner of the Old Country?


**Title: Fables of the Deconstruction**
**Author: Katherine Bell**
**Page number(s): 16**

Paul de Man's theories began as mere lit crit, but now they are forever tainted by controversy and scandal. When will Yale get over it?


**Title: Tea Timeless**
**Author: Elana Zeide**
**Page number(s): 28**

Famous for rare books and rarefied chatter, the Elizabethan Club preserves tradition one sandwich at a time.


**Title: $elling the $yllabus**
**Author: Ted Gesing**
**Page number(s): 4**

Arbitrary? Yes. Legal? Maybe. Required reading at Yale clearly doesn't depend on logic.


**Title: Between the Vines: Cornucopia of Capitalism**
**Author: Joel Burges**
**Page number(s): 5**



**Title: SHO**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
21 Broadway, New Haven • 562.0407


**Title: New Haven Fresh**
**Author: David Walch**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

When you go to rhe Ninth Square 
Farmers' Marker, between Chapel and Elm, 
you can find Frank and the market's other 
merchants. Frank will help you pull rhe 
husks off rhe corn until you find good, 
yellow cobs. They're four for a dollar. Frank. 
might also remark rhat you have come to 
the only place in town for fresh vegetables 
(picked yesterday). 

Frank works with Jim, but not for him. 
Jim Clouse ("jimmy" to Frank) runs rhe 
Ninth 
Square 
Farmers' Market, 
which is ser up 
on 
Saturdays 
from 9 to I and 
Wednesdays 9 ro 
3. Frank lends a 
hand at Jim's 
booth, and he 
knows 
their 
pr oducts. 
They've 
got 
jalapenos, bell 
peppers, plum 
tomatoes, full-
size romaroes, enormous tomatoes, bumpy 
cucumbers, Russet potatoes, corn in the 
husk, very green string beans, and, Frank 
loves to point our, three varieties of apples: 
Macintosh, Golden, and Granny. They do 
not, however, have onions. 

Mary Ann from North Haven doesn't 
either; neither does George, from 
Wallingford, or Fred who, with his son 
Patrick, keeps a farm our in Northford. But 
they will all let you test their corn. If you 
hope ro bargain-hunt, you will find rhe 
same at Mary Ann's and Fred's: both sell a 
pound of string beans (which appear to 
have absolutely the same quality) for a 
dollar. 

You will be happy to know that Mary 
Ann has mushrooms, big and tasty; you 
can spot her easily because she calls our: 
"Here's the biggest bargain in town." If 
you're a student, you'll get a special 
discount; tuition is too much, she says. Go 
to Fred and Patrick, who are set up at the 
opposite end from Frank and Jim, for 
eggplant. They rend to run our of apples 
(they did today), so stick wirh Frank for 
those. Besides Mary Ann's mushrooms and 
Fred's eggplant, the four booths have much 
the same selection. Bur Frank might point 
out, you don't have to leave rown to ger 
'em fresh. 

George, rhe young man at rhe third 
booth, wears a Connecticut Farm Fresh T-
shirt, and he will, for sure, point our that 
everything ar rhe marker is grown in-srare. 
George grows all 
rhe produce for 
his booth, but 
buys the fruit 
from 
another 
~ Connecticut 
~ farmer. If you 
~ complain about 
g the 
lack 
of 
bananas 
or 
oranges, George 
will laugh and 
point to his shirt: 
"Only Connect-
icut-grown 
Products Sold Here."

Don't worry about hawking vendors. 
Only Mary Ann shouts out her bargain 
prices. Besides her, everyone keeps quiet; 
they wait for customers' questions. Frank, 
though, talks more than Jim, who stands in 
the shade behind rhe table. Frank runs 
around the stand, refilling baskets, 
weighing beans and tomatoes, and fixing 
the signs which say: "Connecticut Grown 
... $1 I lb." 

Frank does get tired of saying, "They're 
four for a dollar," but he loves to talk about 
growing up on the farm. When he finds a 
second to rest, he'll tell you about North 
Carolina. 
"In North Carolina, my father never 
grew apples." 
And about New Haven: "I've lived in 
this city for thirty years now; I nud to 
work with produce." 

Frank might show you his bee sting, 
which happened last Saturday. Ir hasn't 
healed. "I guess rhe stinger is still inside. 
Still hurts like a banshee." He pinches the 
pink sore. Luckily, he's not allergic, "''d 
have died a long time ago if chat were the 
case. I grew up on a farm." 

Jim really wanes you co buy tomatoes. 
''Try one of these." He might give you a 
plum tomato. "Our own brand." He will 
explain, if you ask, chat he coo grows his 
own vegetables but buys the fruit. 

If you're more curious, and ask Jim the 
right questions, he will teU you why he 
runs the market in the center of New 
Haven. He'll point toward his flier: 
Connecticut Farm Fresh, FARMERS' MARKET 
WIC. "There's the story, right there: 
Women, Infants, Children, WIC. We do 
coupons." You bite into the tomato. "I 
depend on a cliencele, buc we do chis ·here 
because of chis nutrition program. Business 
has been slow. There was a problem with 
the coupons; 1 think they must have cut 
back on the allocations." Jim talks more 
when you get him on the subject of 
business. "That's why we have the market 
here in town." 

Even though you understand that Jim 
runs the market for city residents on 
welfare, you admit to him that the location 
is strange. There are few apartments or 
houses in the area, the booths are crammed 
together between two buildings, and the 
vegetables are the only green things in 
sight. But none of that matters to Jim. He 
will explain to you-and Frank might join 
in-that this is the only place in town co 
get fresh produce (picked yesterday). 



**Title: HAIRSTYLES**
**Page number(s): 5**

For Men 
and Women 
821/2 Wall St. {865-9187) • 19 Broadway (865-9182) 
We cany Nexxus, Biolage, 
A veda, and Paul Mitchell Products. 
No Appointment Necessary



**Title: ARETHUSA BOOK SHOP**

Out of print and used books. 
Essential reading from 
Baudelaire to Einstein to 
Willa Cather. 
87 Audubon Street 
New Haven, CT 06511 
(203)624-1848



**Title: THE LAMP SHOPPE OF HAMDEN**

FLOOR lAMPS 
EXPERT LAMP REPAIR 
HALOGEN BULBS 
LAMPS HADES 
993 DIXWELL AVE., HAAIDEN 
624-2983



**Title: NEW AND USED BOOKS**

UFO's·Occult ·Metaphysics 
Also: t-shirts, j.-lry, condles and more 
3 Bishop Street· New Haven, CT 
At the corner of Bishop & State 
(203)562 ·2300 
spacebooks@aol.com 
Ask about our maiumkr cataklg



**Title: PERRY'S COFFEE HOUSE**
**Page number(s): 6**

Jam with. your Scones! Live ~fosic Evel'y Satol'day Night 
Serving the Finest: Gourmet Coffee • Cappuccino • Espresso 
Fresh Baked Pastries • Soups • Salads • Awesome Desserts 
896 Whalley Avenue, New Haven, CT 065 IS 
In the Village • (203) 397-2811



**Title: JONATHAN MICHAEL'S**

Thursday-College Night 
$1 off the first drink with your college ID 
Happy Hour Mon-Fri 4:00 - 7:00 
Fri. Oct. 28 H alloween Party! Prizes! 
Proper 10 required 
Newly renovated 
1537 Dixwell Ave., 
Hamden 
248-8808



**Title: THE COLONY**

It's New Haven. It's THE CoLONY. 
Welcoming hosts to Yale visitors 
• Associated with the Downtown HeaLth and Raquet CLub. 
• Fine food and entertainment at CharLie B's Steakhouse. 
• ELegant private suites and guests rooms with advanced 
teLephones and cabLe TV 
• Indoor hoteL parking. 
• Offering faciLities and catering for conventions and 
ceLebrations. 
• Location ideaL for business or pLeasure. 
One block from Yale campus 
1157 Chapel Street • New Haven, CT 06511-4892 • (203) 776-1234 
For reservations call direct 
The Colony 
800-458-8810



**Title: Do you have what it takes to be one of the few, the proud, the Yalies Who Stay?**
**Author: Brooke Conti**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Do you have what it takes to be one of the few, the proud, the 
Yalies Who. Stay? 
A
ter four hours of work, you drag yourself from your 
computer screen ro the window. You stare down for a 
momem at the turning leaves, at the buses barreling 
hrough puddles, and you smile. You might as well face 
it: you're seriously considering staying in New Haven. 
There-now you've said it. And once said, it might as well be 
said again. So you shrug on a coat, jump down a few flights of 
stairs, and run across the courtyard. 

Your friends, however, are less excited by your news. 
"Where do you think you're going to shop?" 
"You'll have to 
take the train into 
New York to get any 
kind of culture." 
"There's not even 
a McDonald's within 
walking distance-
you 
need 
Mc-
Donald's." 
Someone shrugs. "What do you want me to say? New Haven 
could use a few Yalies." 

And so you leave them, considerably less enthusiastic than 
before, wondering when they decided that New Haven was more a 
trial to get through than anything else. You wonder whether the 
city really does need more Yalies to stick around, or if that's just 
arrogance on the part of a bunch of over-educated cynics who 
think they understand New Haven's problems better than its 
permanent residents do. 

You know that a few Yaljes have slid into the New Haven 
political 
scene 
directly after grad-
uation, and you 
suppose they have a 
pretty good idea of 
what the city needs. 
But frankly, you 
can't read a Political 
Union flyer without 
gagging and aren't 
interested in run-
ning for anything. 
That last point, 
you think, may have 
some merit, but you 
tell them that you'll 
have a car, that you'll 
be able to make a fast 
food run whenever 
the spirit moves you. 
More importantly, 
you like New Haven 
As you return to 
your room , you 
wonder whether any 
other types of people 
'"'ft'- ••r-
I:.:ir.~lr--IN~W.-!!!!!!!-~~W hang around. If they 
do, you sure haven't 
heard of them. 

and can see yourself .-_ __ 
.........,~ox_....::;~olL.Ji~a.-~~.J:::~_Jii.....li~U.__..Uaa~~..e_7L~ 
staying a few more years. 

I
t's easy enough to find individual Yalies who have remained in 
"Grad school," someone says suddenly. "You mean you're gonna 
New Haven. Unfortunately, there's no comprehensive list, no 
apply after all." 
database, no twenty-page roster of names and occupations to 
No, you say, you mean you're going to get a job here. Buy food, 
prove that yes, Yalies stay, and yes, Yalies thrive. The city does have 
clothes, and hair products. Maybe raise kids. 

The Last line stuns them. One of your friends says he can't think 
of a worse place to raise a family; another says she can't think of a 
worse place to work; and a third says she can't think of a worse 
place to live, period. "God, I've put in my four 
years," she adds. 

You frown, and ask them to get serious. 
OCTOBER 14, 1994 
7 


--- Page 8 ---

union organizer since leaving Yale, laughs; 
"I really wouldn't be seeking that kind of 
community. I'm not looking for Yalies." 

After four years at Yale, other graduates 
who stick around may want to distance 
themselves from their alma mater. Still, 
judging by the responses from older 
graduates, only a few have remained for the 
long haul,- or else those who have aren't 
aware of one another. 

David Wilk (CC '72) can't name any 
former classmates living in New Haven 
offhand. Like many present-day Yalies, 
Wilk fled town after graduation. He 
roamed from Vermont to North Carolina, 
from South Carolina to Minnesota-only 
to wind up back in New Haven when he 
and a friend decided to open a wholesale 
book company. 

Likewise, Frank Logue (BK '48, LAW 
'51) spent a number of years in suburban 
There is something 
that doesn't want 
people to stick 
around-that, beyond 
simply encouraging 
people to pursue their 
dreams, discourages 
them from remaining. 
Trumbull, Connecticut, before returning to 
the city. In the 60s and early 70s, Logue 
devoted his time to establishing programs 
helping people from minority and low-
income backgrounds gain the tools and 
experience needed to better their 
communities. The Community Action 
Institute trains New Haveners as 
community leaders, and with the help of 
the Ford Foundation, the National Urban 
Fellows program uses similar techniques to 
"increase the supply of qualified minoriries 
in city management, explains Logue. The 
fellows receive a master's degree in urban 
studies after a summer semester at Yale, 
nine months assisting a mayor in an urban 
8 
center, and a final semester at Occidental 
College in California. 

After working with mayors, training 
activists, and even serving as alderman, 
Logue concluded that New Haven could 
use better government. Rather than let his 
experience go to waste, he ran for mayor. 
Even though he ran as a Democrat without 
the support of the Democratic machine, he 
won in 1975, and again in I 977. 

W
ether they choose politics or 
he private sector, most Yalies 
who have remained or returned 
share an extensive involvement in the city 
they h·ave adopted. Although Wick 
Chambers (BK '71) was born in New 
Haven and has never left, he says he isn't 
sure whether he ever intended to remain. 
As an undergraduate, · he focused more on 
getting .through Yale, on Vietnam, and on 
questions of right and wrong, than on 
planning for the future. Initially, he stayed 
in New Haven to finish his alternative 
service as a conscientious objector, but he 
soon found himself driving a taxi and 
dreaming of becoming a police officer. Cab 
driving, he thought, was the best way to 
learn the streets of the city. 

Although Chambers subsequently 
received the highest scores on the police 
academy's entrance exam, he was not 
admitted. Attributing his rejection to his 
status as a conscientious objector, he sued. 
While the lawsuit was pending, he 
attended academy classes anyway. His 
classmates thought he was a spy from the 
FBI or a Yale grad student writing his 
thesis, so they didn't speak to him during 
the first two weeks. He wound up with a 
former Green Beret as a ride partner, who 
finally sat him down over coffee and told 
him that the guys all thought he was an 
asshole because he would not back up his 
partner with a gun. Chambers explained 
that being a conscientious objector didn't 
make him a pacifist, and that he was 
certainly willing to use a gun. He had no 
more problems with his classmates, but he 
lost his suit and went to law school instead. 
He now practices law in New Haven. 

Maybe every Yalie who stays in New 
Haven needs a rite of passage similar to / 
Chambers' if he or she is to feel like part of 
the city. Unlike others who have wandered 
into such experiences, Readey has been 
struggling to reconcile his roles as Yalie and 
New Havener since his undergraduate days. 
But spending a summer in New Haven 
researching his senior essay made him fed 
almost entirely like a New Havener: he 
played basketball down at the courtS by 
Hillhouse High, dated an East Haven 
woman, and got to know his neighbors. 
Outing his senior year, Readey tried to 
implement a fellowship program for Yale 
,graduates who wanted to stay in New 
Ha.ven 
to 
work 
for 
non-profit 
organizations. The difficulty he ran into 
convinced him that "there is something 
that doesn't want people to stick around, 
that, beyond simply encouraging people to 
pursue their dreams, discourages them 
from remaining." 

That "discouraging something" remains 
ambiguous. Danna ·schneider says she 
adapted quickly to life in New Haven. In 
fact, all remaining Yalies share an eagerness 
to catalogue the city's good points-points 
that many say undergraduates do not 
appreciate. Former alderman Stefan Pryor 
(SM '93) ascribes what he calls the city's 
tremendous character to its many distinct 
communities. Logue enthusiastically 


--- Page 9 ---

I 1 
describes the arts scene, saying "It's possible 
to be a full-rime culture nut in this city." 

It is not always clear whether Yalies 
remain because ·of New Haven's strengths 
or whether their enthusiasm signals a 
reaction against the area's lukewarm 
reputation and undergraduate complaints. 
As Schneider says, "I get very impatient 
with the bitching that goes on about New 
Haven." 

Certainly graduates who 
remain
Most Yalies who have 
remained or returned 
· share an extensive 
involvement in the 
city they have since 
adopted. 
acknowledge the ciry's many ailments, but 
while some rattle off a list of "poverty, 
drugs, and crime" as fast as any undergrad, 
living in the ciry has given them a closer 
look at urban problems than most students 
perceive through the gates of their 
residential colleges. Both Logue and 
Readey say that one of the ciry's problems 
is the failure of residents of surrounding 
suburbs to realize that a healthy central ciry 
is in their own interest-a failure of which 
many undergraduates may also be guilry. 

Or perhaps the universiry should share 
some of the blupe. Despite recent 
initiatives, Readey claims that the 
University doesn't do nearly enough for 
New Haven. Schneider goes further and 
accuses Yale of actually harming the ciry by 
buying up more and more of New 
Haven-"like a little Pac-Man." She calls 
New Haven Yale's company town, and says 
that, of all the communiry service programs 
running out of Dwight Hall, none solves 
the problem of how Yale treats its workers. 

Community service among Yalies is 
important, say graduates, though not an 
essential qualification for long-term 
residence in New Haven. Perhaps they 
hope that the actions of individual 
undergraduates will compensate for 
historically 
strained 
town-gown 
relationships. In some way, each Yalie who 
remains also atones for a shared sense of 
guilt toward the ciry. 

Bur not everyone agrees how much 
community service accomplishes. While 
the amount of service Yale students 
perform today impresses Logue, Schneider 
says that the community service most 
students do is a joke. She agrees that some 
have good hearts and do try, but believes 
that too many approach the ciry with the 
attitude that they are performing charity 
work. Pryor, who says he came to Yale to 
experience an urban environment, believes 
that numerous Yalies arrive with similar 
goals. Most undergraduates, though, would 
laugh at this sentiment. Even Wilk, who 
spent time as an undergraduate establishing 
a food co-op and trying to set up a 
communiry center, maintains that students 
do not come to Yale to get involved in the 
city. Furthermore, they should not be 
expected to. Their job, he says, is to be 
students. 

N
d so you lie on your bed, hands 
notted beneath your head, and 
onder exactly what you owe the 
ciry. You don't buy the line that you have 
an obligation to get involved in New 
Haven life as much as possible. And you 
don't believe that if you stay you have to 
run for office or join a half-dozen 
organizations in order to make your 
rc:sidency count for something. But at the 
same time, you're sick of your friends and 
their jokes about their chances of being 
mugged or shot on their way back from 
their Wednesday night section. You're sick 
of their bitching about the dry's lack of 
culture when what they mean by "culture" 
is a better mall or a bigger movi~ theatre. 
You really don't even know why you like 
the city, when it comes down to it, or why 
you should stay here rather than go almost 
anywhere else. You wonder whether you 
need to go to school to drive a cab, or if 
you can just show up. 

... 
Brook~ Conti is a sophomor~ in Ezra Stiks 
Co/kg~. 


**Title: Breaking the Bursar's Hold**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Cash, class, and politics converge on College Street-ask anyone who's ever owed Yale money. 
Bursar's hold is by definition a pain. Fundamentally, bursar hold aims to coerce students into paying everything that they owe Yale, and to this end, bursar hold succee~s. Currently, only five students owe what the Office of the Bursar classifies as "sizable amounts." Yet as is the case whenever punishment is meted out, those punished quickly question the means of discipline and its severity. 

Any student who has not paid his or her term bill by the deadline goes on hold. Students on hold are officially not students at Yale. The Bursar may levy fines of up to $330 on any late payments. More urgently, students on hold can neither register for classes nor eat in the Yale University Dining Halls. Late registration can result in another $35 fine and the forfeiture of the Credit/0/Fail option. Students have to pay not only for meals at restaurants instead of eating contract meals at the dining halls, but also for all missed meals when the university resolves their account. In effect, Yale policy forces those who have demonstrated the least ability to pay to pay even more. And, of course, there are the dreaded lines at the Bursar's Office. The hours spent waiting in line can be costly, especially during the first chaotic weeks of school. 

Perhaps most importantly for the Yale community, bursar hold draws a very distinct line between the haves and the have-nots at Yale. "Why don't they just get some money?" asked one student walking by a recent bursar hold rally. This view illustrates the divide between the students who find themselves on hold and those who have the resources to avoid it. Yale will collect its money, one way or another. The school will expel any student who owes a large amount. To students who hope to stay at Yale, this is deterrence enough. In the interim, bursar hold seems little more than an unnecessarry harrasment or a stigma on students from less wealthy backgrounds. Many students from middle- and working-class backgrounds are driven off campus, in part to escape worrying about getting keys and eating for the first few days of school. To the extent that living off-campus means being less connected to the university, the Yale community loses the contributions of students from diverse socio-economic backgrounds. 

Every student who has been on hold has a war story to tell. Kathy Cassidy (ES '96) has been on hold three of her five semesters at Yale. "At this point, each semester I just expect to be on bursar's hold," she says. Last year there was a mix-up between the undergraduate Financial Aid Office and the Office of the Bursar, so that her financial aid was not awarded until October. "Students have a specific deadline for turning in finan~ial aid forms," she explains. "But the Financial Aid Office doesn't have any specific deadline for finishing the awards." Because of the delay, the paperwork authorizing her student loans was not processed. The Bursar's Office, however, still expected her to pay both her family contribution and the amount of her loan before she could even apply for the loan. Unable to cover this larger amount, Cassidy was put on hold. She managed to get off hold by "pleading" with the ·Bursar and borrowing from a family member, bur not before waiting in line for hours and missing seve·ral contract meals in the dining halls. 

Yale will collect its money, one way or another. Bursar hold seems little more than an unnecessary harassment or a stigma on students from less wealthy backgrounds. 

Criticism of the Office of the Bursar comes as nothing new. The office is still reeling from the turmoil that eventually resulted in the elimination of the actual position of the Bursar. Bursar Francis R. Nicoll retired three years ago in the wake of suggestions that he had made inappropriate remarks to students about their sexual orientation. Yale never filled the position again, and Associate Bursar Alberta Stephens assumed Nicoll's former duties. 

Although past grievances against the Bursar have usually been rooted in complaints against bursar hold, there have also been allegations of mismanagement within the office. Some of these allegations originate from the physical appearance of the offices. Papers and folders sit in stacks of piles on top of desks and tables crammed among a jumble of ancient and new computer equipment. After seeing the offices, one is not hard-pressed to believe that a form or a check might be misplaced and never seen again. Associate Bursar Stephens, worn down from what may seem like a constant battle with students, seems to welcome the opportunity to show that she is "not as bad as they say I am." She thinks the criticism she and her office have received is unfair. "Students have ro do their part, roo." 

The latest wave of student attention to the problems at the Office of· the Bursar began· last spring when the Black Student Alliance at Yale pur grievances against the Bursar on its agenda. BSAY circulated a petition that called for policy changes at the Bursar's Office and met with administrators, including Stephens, to discuss how some of the problems students faced at the beginning of each semester could be avoided. The Radical Student Front, Real Diversity, Poor at Yale, and the International Socialist Organization joi~ed BSAY to put pressure on the Bursar. These groups saw the Bursar as just another example of hostility towards Yale students receiving financial aid. 

Many also voiced rhe concern that students in bursar hold lines were disproportionately minority students. 

Beyond petitioning, the groups began a letter-writing campaign and staged several rallies. Last spring the groups presented a list of proposed reforms to Stephens pressing for three main changes: early notice before students were placed on hold; extended hours at the Bursar's Office, especially at the beginning of semesters; and a way for students on hold to continue ro eat in the dining halls. Discussion also touched on creating a system where resolving bursar hold problems, registering, and other paperwork could be taken care of in one place, or "one-stop shopping." Students also suggested a computer link berween the undergraduate Financial Ajd Office and the Bursar so that both offices could share information on financial aid awards. 

Political posturing has eroded the Bursar reform coalition that emerged last spring. Wildly divergent stories now obscure the facts of what actually happened. According to most accounts, rhe beginning of the 1994 fall semester was noticeably less rurnultuous ar the Office of the Bursar. At press time, no more than rwenty studenrs still remained on bursar hold. While it is clear that the Bursar instituted some changes over the summer, each group, anxious to claim credit for rhis fear, provides an account of events that highlights irs own role. Bursar's Office officials deny that student pressure played any role in the shorter lines this fall, but student groups are just as quick to portray the shorter lines as a victory for student acnv•sm. 

Nadjwa Norton (MC '95) of BSAY feels that in light of the changes made this summer, Bursar reform is a "dead issue." Austin Lynch (BK '97) of rhe Radical Student Front notes that Yale has shown "a tendency ·to concede just enough to prevent a groundswell of protest. This is clearly what happened ... indicating that with continued pressure we can get this university to treat financial aid students fairly." Norton feels chat students' pressure for an early warning system had a large effect. Instead of finding out that they were on hold when they arrived in New Haven, students knew during the summer that it was a possibility, and frequently were able to clear up the matter from home. Norton also believes rhat the computer link fixed some of the problems of communication berween the Financial Ajd Office and the Office of the Bursar. 

Bob Barnes (DC '96) of Real Diversity is nor yet ready to declare a victory. He feels that Stephens has not addressed the problem thoroughly. Barnes attributes the shorter lines this year to a simple administrative sleight of hand. He claims that the room where students on hold were handled was moved to the basement "so that rhe line was nor outside." (Stephens denies this and maintains that the room has been in the same place every year.) Barnes complains rhar students on hold this semester still could nor eat and that the computer link does not work. Barnes and Stephens do agree on this lasr point. While the physical hook-up has existed for several years, no integration of the systems exists. This means that for the Bursar Office to access financial aid information, the staff at' the Bursar must exit their system, access the financial aid system, copy the information by hand, and re-enter the Bursar system. Stephens correctly characterizes the link berween the rwo offices as an unfeasible tool for the Bursar staff. 

Barnes also points out that posturing has made everyone involved "fuzzy on what has been accomplished." Each group has a different version of events and a different lise of reforms conceded. Certainly, if Yale will change superficially to evade public criticism as Lynch claims, BSA Y and the RSF may have accepted university propaganda in order to claim a victory. "The problem is they (the RSF and BSAY] buy into Yale rhetoric too easily," says Barnes. 


**Title: Wooster Square: A Century of Change**
**Author: Helen Kim**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Do heritage and apizza a true Italian neighborhood make, or is it time for Wooster Square to say goodbye?  This hour that will round Wooster Square will attract more attention than the green itself: which is really nothing more than another pretty, tree-lined park. Exceptionally fine examples of nineteenth-century American architecture, the houses have "evolved in harmonious fashion," as the commemorative plaque tells you. Each house has a distinct personality that might assert itself in an intricate balcony grillwork, on a silent rustic facade, or in the huge blue morning glories hanging over the edge of a flower box.


The Square's most compelling characteristic is its statue. Standing on a pedestal in the south end, Cristoforo Colombo asserts the monumental heroism of the day before political correctness took his name down the road of revisionist history. After all, he took his place there in 1892, at the height of Italian pride and presence in New Haven. Paul Russo, (1891) the first Italian student at Yale, unveiled the statue among the cherry blossoms at the first New Haven Columbus Day Festival.


For 102 years, Columbus has stood among the trees looking toward the community that put him there, watching the evolution of the neighborhood. While the park's official name is Wooster Square, after the Revolutionary War hero General David Wooster (1717), people around here call it Columbus Green. That gesture of naming reveals the sense of ownership that Italian-American residents assert over this neighborhood.


Like Columbus' image, though, New Haven's Little Italy has changed in the past century.  Clearly it is comprised of a few restaurants and stores on a few blocks. But Wooster Square still feels like an Italian neighborhood. Walk down Wooster Street on a nice Saturday morning, and you will see folks like Joe "Duck" Scarpellino sitting with friends Mel and Ralph on plastic folding chairs. Clad in comfortable T-shirts, shorts, and dark glasses, they are talking, watching the street, and sipping wine. Most of them do not live in Wooster Square anymore. They moved out years ago to Fair Haven or East Shore. But they come back every weekend, to regroup, to maintain contact with those who did stay, like Joe. Even a few minutes, Joe gives a wave of recognition to a passing car. After all, it's his neighborhood. Four generations of the Scarpellino family live in the same building: Joe, Joe "Duck" Jr., Joe III, and Joe III's son.


A week-night at Tony and Lucille's means Italian opera music, flowered tables, and Tony himself, a balding man in a black and purple striped shirt that does nothing for his potbelly. Tony Sacco's calzones are fried, stuffed with cheese, and smothered in rich red sauce.


The whole stretch of Wooster Street proves gastronomically delightful. People line up a full hour before Sally's and Pepe's open and often endure bad service, all for the glory of true Italian apizza. "You don't have to use binoculars to see the toppings," boasts Sal Monragno, who has worked there for 55 years. You don't need binoculars to watch the process either. Behind Sal's counter, Gary, a grandson of the original owner Frank Pepe, ladles red sauce onto the flour, tosses cheese on top. Workers busily slide the pizzas in and out of the brick oven with paddle-like wooden utensils that have handles at least five feet long.


Down the street at Cavaliere's grocery store, Silvio and Emidio Cavaliere greet customers by name—some by neighborhood nicknames ranging from Drink a Beer Novella to Matches Arnica to Pat My Nerves Esposiro. "It's like a newsstand, everyone goes there to gossip," says Alderwoman Louise DeLauro (D-8). "Is someone hurt? Did someone die? Did someone have a baby? You go to Cavaliere's." Angelo, grandson and namesake of founder Angelo Cavaliere, tells a tall, dark woman with a little girl, "You're looking good. That vacation did you good," while ringing up her purchase. In the back, a poster promotes Amalfi, the city from which many of the Italian families in the area hail. Behind the counter, old photos plaster the wall: Silvio and Emidio in service uniform, a huge length of cheese in the early days of the store.


Silvio and Emidio are short, round men, with remarkably round eyes, round balding heads, and identical round bellies. Their father, Angelo, started the store in 1934, when it was one of many grocery stores and specialty markets that littered the neighborhood. Only Cavaliere's remains from that golden era.


"In those days, there were no set hours. They worked for 12 or 15 hours a day. They worked hard," reminisces Emidio. Most of the Italians who came with the mass immigration wave of the late nineteenth century hailed from southern Italy. Driven by poverty and visions of "a land of gold," they found work building the railroads and manning the factories. Wooster Square quickly became the Italian center of New Haven because of its proximity to factories like Sargents, the hardware manufacturer.


The Italians who emigrated during this time were "mostly illiterate in their own language and in English," says Ralph, a former resident and crony of Joe "Duck." They walked to their jobs at the factories or set up their own businesses.


But the new immigrants faced discrimination. Much of the strife involved the Irish community. Emidio Cavaliere remembers how Italians used to have to sit in the back of services at St. Patrick's church. Ralph places this discrimination in the natural progression of the immigration process. "The blacks today are what the Italians used to be 25 years ago," he says. "First it was the English stepping on the Irish, then the Irish on the Italians, now it's the blacks' turn."


This matter-of-fact tone belies a certain resentment toward minority communities today. Italians on the whole had to give up their language and heritage as they became Americanized—on the surface, at least. "[Our parents) were not like the Hispanics," Ralph says, "who just stay in their own community and put up signs in their own language."


Old stereotypes about Italians, particularly those growing out of popular cinema, persist on the streets of New Haven. You couldn't run a business here if you didn't speak Italian. "When people think of Italians, they think of two things: pizza and the mafia," Ralph says. "People would look at us like we were some kind of freaks, like we were all gangsters or part of the mob. Like our sisters were driving the getaway cars from the bank."


Stories abound about members of the mafia who used to come into restaurants in Little Italy and "throw money around." "They had these names like Blackie or Whitey," recalls one former resident. "One of them, Fat Fanny, would come in and we'd be scrambling around moving chairs and tables out of the way, because he weighed 600 pounds. Now you don't see them anymore, probably because they've all been bumped off."


The stereotype lingers today. A librarian at the New Haven Public Library warns that some people might get the wrong idea if you ask too many questions about the community. It is pretty well known, he says, that some members of that community are part of the Family, that this is Gambino country.


Scarpellino unknowingly contributes to this image by asserting that Little Italy ranks as one of the better neighborhoods in New Haven. "The crime rate is low here," he says, "because everyone knows one another. If there's a problem, it gets taken care of. We kind of have our own police force."


Defying discrimination does not preclude holding on to heritage. Almost every fact that New Haven's Italian-American residents cite matches Roland Osterweis' *Thru Centuries of New Haven*, even down to the year in which St. Michael's, the dominant church in the area, was established. Their ties to Italy remain strong. Sacco, of Tony and Lucille's, remembers his parents going to Italy 25 different times.


But weekend visits alone cannot revive the atmosphere of the once-thriving neighborhood. In the early years, "it was very ethnic. You couldn't run a business here if you didn't speak Italian," Emidio recalls. "There was a time when you couldn't sell American bread. It was strictly Italian. Now that's all gone."


"What you're seeing is only a little part of what it used to be," says Sacco, who was born on Wooster Street. "The highway cut it in half. Every parking lot, every open space you see used to be a building."


The elimination of low-rent housing, as well as the demolition of houses to make way for the new interstate highway, led to a massive Italian exodus. "The highway raped my neighborhood," DeLauro declares. "It was devastating to my people. Before, everything that you needed was in the neighborhood. It was like Italy—all you had to do was walk a little ways and you could go to the grocery store, to the fish market, to the drugstore.


"Some people say it was deliberate," DeLauro says. The then heavily Republican district was a sore point for the Democratic mayor of a largely Democratic city. Dispersing the Italians would scatter Republican votes. Ironically, the Italian community today has switched its loyalty to the Democratic party.


Large-scale relocation sparked intense reaction. Those beyond Franklin Street were reimbursed for their homes and many moved to East Shore. "There were people who cried because they didn't want to leave Wooster Square," says DeLauro. "They were so heart-broken, so sad." The money the government gave to the families "was not enough for someone brought up in a neighborhood to pick up and go to another." Nor could the neighborhood be replicated in the suburbs of East Shore.


Displacement led to Little Italy's decline. The number of fish markets, meat markets, grocery stores, and drugstores dwindled; only the hardiest and oldest of businesses endured. The second generation won't run the stores, but the first didn't have sufficient education to do anything else, says Emidio Cavaliere. "The third generation is the doctors and congressmen." DeLauro's Congresswoman daughter Rosa (D-CT) is a case in point.


But a few members of Little Italy's third generation have pursued a different path. "It's the commercial aspect that keeps the Italian element here," says Joe "Duck" Scarpellino. And it is perhaps in these businesses—these family-run businesses—that the future of Wooster Street lies.


Laura and Trisha Consiglio are the third generation to run Consiglio's restaurant, founded by their grandfather in 1938. Formerly known as the Big Apple, Consiglio's is the fourth oldest business on Wooster Street. A year ago, Laura Consiglio, a tawny-haired woman with a perpetual easy smile, left her position at the Yale Alumni Magazine for a role in the family establishment. Since then, she has tried to organize a neighborhood business association, the first of its kind in the community.


"I wanted the businesses here to work together to beautify and promote the area as a tourist attraction," explains Consiglio. "There are certain things we can do as a group to make this a viable area. People don't know about us. There are no signs on the highways or anything, and we're a real attraction of the city. I think that culturally, there's a tradition here that people can enjoy."


Although all neighborhood businesses came to a meeting at Consiglio's last spring, they accomplished nothing concrete, partly because in the old days, associations "were not the way you did things," Consiglio explains. These days, however, family spirit and pride may not suffice to keep Wooster Street alive. As the sons and daughters of immigrants age, the next generation returns equipped with books and business courses. Still, the same spirit that motivated their ancestors keeps these younger generations coming back. "Working with your family has its drawbacks," Consiglio says. "They might make you madder than if you were working with strangers, but there's always a strong pull. It's in my blood, I guess."


Cristoforo Colombo stands tall and imposing on the south side of Wooster Square, holding a globe in his left hand and looking out from the trees. A hundred years ago, in 1892, he looked out upon a healthy neighborhood rich in history and just beginning to assert itself in America. His gaze encompassed the far-reaching ambitions of a proud community. In 1994, he gazes beyond the present, into the uncertain future of Little Italy, perhaps into the future of all ethnic neighborhoods. Unable to read his iron countenance, those who wander along Wooster Square can only wonder what he thinks of the changing community.



**Title: Fables of the Yale School**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. 
. . . 
. . 
Fables of the 
N
o professor wanrs to talk 
about it. A few will, off the record. Others will publicly, 
though slightly hesitantly, if only to lay the issue to rest 
at last. Some offer no more than definitions and 
historical facts. Everyone seems guarded; this reticence itself is 
sometimes concealed. What is this illicit scandal in the English 
department? Embezzlement? Incest? No. It's a literary theory, 
perhaps the most controversial of the twentieth century-a theory 
that one professor called "destruction" by mistake. This theory, 
deconstrucdon, has drawn intense media scrutiny in the past ten . 
years and, according to professor of English Sara Suleri-Goodyear, 
has been "maligned out of proportion." Some professors claim that 
this hostility toward deconstruction determines the study of 
literature at Yale roday. 

Deconstruction, also known as the "Yale School" of literary 
criticism, presents a strategy for. reading which examines in detail 
the intricacies and contradictions of meaning and language. The 
theory arises from the philosophy of Jacques Derrida, a French 
philosopher who first 
proposed the idea that, due to rhe limited 
and contradicwry nature of language, no philosophy 
ultimately could offer its own foundation or justification. Derrida 
uses rhe word difftranc~ to refer to the indeterminate or arbitrary 
connection between a word and the idea it represents, language. 
Derrida points to the impossibiliry of finding a self-evident truth, 
because any truth must be described in an inherently limited 
language. He defends the methods of deconstruction as necessary 
because philosophy is not self-consciously aware of irs status as 
language, and he uses deconstruction to expose and break down 
these rhetorical devices. Literature, in contrast, has come to play 
an essential role in deconstructive theory as the only discourse that 
consistently recognizes and reveals irs dependence on language. 

As a critical movement, deconstruction peaked at Yale during 
the late 70s and early 80s. Paul de Man, then a professor in Yale's 
comparative literature department, was among the first to apply 
Derrida's theories to the study of literature. De Man's theories rely 
on the close analysis of a literary text to reveal inconsistencies 
hidden beneath layers of language. Deconstructionists prefer to call 
themselves "rhetorical readers," a term which emphasizes 
deconstruction's status as a method of reading. David Bromwich, 
professor of English, explains deconstruction as an "intense therapy 
of reading" that places a "peculiar emphasis on epistemological 
concerns," rhe ways in which knowledge and language inreracr. 

According to Michael Holquist, professor of comparative literature, 
deconstruction involved "examining the way in which the means 
that were used to construct a text constantly worked to do that, but 
at the same rime to foil the full articulation of what the text seemed 
to be intending." A deconstructive reading of any text always seeks 
to reveal contradictory meanings. 

According to Suleri-Goodyear, deconstruction simply continues 
the western tradition of skeptic philosophy: "Skepticism is based 
on a question. So when I'm talking about the ironies inherent in 
deconsrructive rhetoric, my reference is to precisely the act of 
formulating a question as a critical practice rather than providing 
an answer." This approach, she says, is "hardly new." To formulate 
such questions, the theory of deconstrucdon requires the 
dismantling of structure within a text and the examination of rhe 
limitations of language. Deconstruction exposes language as 
THE NEW jOURNAL 


--- Page 17 ---

:fa 
ry 
~- ltimatdy metaphorical, as words must always be 
·d cfined by other words, and metaphors must give way to other 
-y letaphors. 

which de Man stated 
that Jews "pollute" modern fiction and that a solution to the 
"Jewish problem" could be the "creation of a Jewish colony isolated 
from Europe." The revelation of de Man's wartime journalism 
provoked an avalanche of media coverage and intensified the 
existing debate over the political implications of de Man's 
deconstrucrive theories. 

IS n [ ncreased public use of the term has forced the expansion of the 
y 
technical meaning of "deconstruction." Paul Fry, professor of 
tt 
English, criticizes the media for debasing and overusing the 
erm. Much of the adulteration of the term stems from statements 
g aken out of context, such as Derrida's pronouncement Il n'y a pas 
's' ~ors du uxu ["There is no outside-text"]. Such quotes have been 
y ··~d to oversimplify deconstruction. "That is the cliche and the 
Y ntsreading," Suleri states. "To say that deconstruction means there 
5 
l nothing outside of the text can't be possible." The idea that 
J kconstruction requires the utter isolation of pure text led, in pan, 
5 :o_allegations by critics that deconstruction was dangerously 
lbistoricaJ and apoliticaJ, leaving out essential humanizing elements 
' :~fliterature. 

Criticized for being overly apolitical, deconstruction attempted 
to eliminate the assumption that "there is one form of truth that is 
more secure than any other," explains Bromwich. Critics took this 
to mean that deconstruction gave in to a basic nihilism, which 
could lead to totalitarian politics. "It was implied long before the 
revelations about [de Man's) wartime journalism that 
deconstruction was a kind of abyss or open door through which 
totalitarian politics could pass," explains Fry. 

, 
Critics have continually questioned deconstruction's relation to 
Suleri-Goodyear repudiates the criticism that deconstruction is 
apoliticaJ. "There's nothing in his writing that is depoliticized," she 
>oth history and politics. Paul de Man, who led the movement of 
· deconstruction in the United States, joined 
the YaJe faculty in 1970 and evenruaJJy 
-=----, 
btcame both Sterling Professor of the :;; 
~umanities and head of the comparative o. 
literature department. He died in 1983 _ .. 
at the age of 64. Four years later, on ~ 
December 1, 1987, the N~w YtJrk Tt1ms o: 
.,ublished an article which reveaJed that ~ 
Man had written at least 100 articles ~ 
• 1941 and 1942 for a collaborationist ~ 
newspaper called L~ Soir in Nazi-
~ 
OCcupied Belgium. Most of the articles ~ 
were book and music reviews; the most o 
notorious, however, was titled "Jews in 
Contemporary Literature," a piece in 
QCTOBER 14, 1994 


--- Page 18 ---

18 
**Title: Deconstructing de Man's Life**
**Author: Katherine Bell**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Holquist maintains that the atmosphere 
at Yale no longer attacks deconstruction. "I 
think we soon outgrew that," he says. "Yale 
is where deconstruction happened first, and 
there is a sense in which we have 
accommodated it in one way or another. I 
think we negotiated the transition before 
other places did, and if I may say so, with 
more maturity." 


While Fry points to Yale's "quite 
concerted and conscious hostility towards 
deconstruction over the last ten years," he 
insists that Yale has not extended this 
prejudice to leftist politics. The intellectual 
left cannot be directly equated with rhe 
politi{;al left; any hostility that may remain 
at Yale towards deconstruction is purely 
theoretically based. "There was really no 
question in anyone's mind of a political 
purge," explains Fry. "That never happened 
at Yale, and it's certainly not happening 
now." 


Humanities Professor Harold Bloom 
also separates theoretical and political 
concerns. He warns against the unification 
of literature and politics, despite the fact 
that literature itself necessarily contains a 
political element. "''m saying that the study 
of literature should primarily be an aesthetic 
and cognitive affair. It should not be a 
political affair. Literature can be anything it 
wants to be, and it always does have a 
political aspect. But the study of ir is a 
different matter." 


Currently, no single theoretical school 
appears to dominate the study of 
literature at Yale. "There is no 
IDEAS 
paradigm of study that is generally 
conceded to be natural now," explains 
Holquisr. "A lor of people deplore it. They. 
call it a crisis. They think it's something 
new. It isn't new. It may be a crisis, but it's 
nor necessarily a bad thing. It's a very 
excmng nme." 


Bloom, though, abhors current trends 
in the srudy of literature. He uses the term 
"the school of resentment" to lump rogether 
recent developments in literary study, 
including new h istoricism, academic 
feminism, and cultural criticism, which he 
describes as "neither cultural nor criticism 
so far as I can tell, but just silly politics." 


Bloom maintains that cultural criticism 
"totally dominates universities and colleges. 
I don't think literature is taught any more 
for the most part. I mean, there are a few 
places like Yale where literature is still 
taught, bur whether that will survive even ar 
Yale I don't know. I'm very gloomy." 


Bloom claims ro eschew all schools of 
literary thought. "I am your true Marxist, 
following Groucho rather than Karl. I rake 
as my motto Groucho's grand motto, which 
was 'Whatever it is, I'm agai nst it.' One 
should learn ro read for oneself and ro think 
for oneself. That's what Emerson was all 
about and I thought being an American was 
all about." 


Although Holquisr does not believe char 
the study of literatu re at Yale can be 
characterized by a single critical movement, 
he does assert, "Some of the more exciting 
stuff char's being done right now is coming 
our of cerrain kinds of feminist criticism, 
certain kinds of pose-colonial criticism, 
cultural studies in general." 


Cultural criticism is 
often described as either an 
expansion of the theory of 
deconstruction or a reaction 
against ir. "Cultural criticism 
can be seen as a kind of gross 
reaction ro rhe misreading of 
deconstruction 
as 
rhe 
overemphasis 
on sheer 
rexrualiry. It's as if they are 
overcompensating," explains 
Holquist. 


During his 13 years at Yale, Paul de 
Man perfected the role of the influen-
tial literary critic. Until his death in 
1983, he was the high priest of the arcane 


**Title: Tea Timeless**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 21**

Thought Old Blue was dead? Think again. 
At the Elizabethan Club it's always


A
little section of the Yale University Library System lies 
more obscure and sequestered than the darkest corner of 
the stacks. Its books line a six foot square, bomb-proof 
vault. Each Friday, one of six special librarians will turn 
the combination, twist the handle, swing open the door, unfasten 
the bars, and unshelve favorite classics. He might rake down a 
collection of plays in folio edition. He'd reach inro its glass case and 
open the tome inside to a withered page, mottled with age spots, a 
play like the Tempest or other famous first editions-Paradise Lost, 
The Faerie Queen, or Bacon's Essays. Visitors sign a register when 
they-leave, inscribing their names only pages after the signatures of 
such luminaries as Stephen Vincent Benet, james Thurber, Iris 
Murdoch, Allen Ginsberg, William Carlos Williams, and Robert 
Frost. When the lock slams shut, the books return to relative 
obscurity, tucked away in a quaint white house ~t 459 College 
Street. Dull against the forest green door, a bronze plare reads "The 
Elizabethan Club.'' 


As irs name suggests, the Club delights in anachronism. A 1920 
sketch of the house, by Theodore Diedrickson, 
could be a current rendering. Inside, the walls are 
wood-paneled, and the chairs worn mahogany 
leather. Renaissance portraits occupy the few spaces 
between shelves brimming with yellowed books. A 
period copy of Queen Elizabeth l's portrait surveys 
the scene while well-dressed students engage 
professors in polite conversation, nibbling on finger 
sandwiches and cookies. In pleasant weather, a few 
might play croquet. The accents lilt, inflections so 
refined that they verge on Oxbridge. Tea takes 
place daily from 4 to 6 o'clock. Matthew Lopes, the 
steward, unfailingly serves rhe Club's secret, smoky 
blend from silver rea pots into china cups. as he has 
for rhe past thirty-seven years. The accompan) ing 
sandwich is tomato on Mondays, cucumber on 
Tuesdays, then chicken salad, cinnamon toast, tuna 
fish, peanut buner and jelly, and dare bread on 
Sundays. Every week it is rhe same-always has 
been, always will be. The delicacies provide ample 
enricemenr for members to come, read, and 
congregate in quier corners. Tbar is how it's done at 
the "Lizzie"-sir, sip, study, and scintillate. 


OCTOBER 14, 1994 


ln 191 I, Alexander Cochran ( 1896) rebelled against the anti-
intellectualism of his era by founding a club to encourage "free and 
unaffeC£ed discussion" about the arts, literature, and religion. 
Cochran wanted to foster serious dialogue berween professors and 
srudents who rarely met outside of formal class lectures. He had 
developed a passion for Elizabethan literature in Professor William 
Lyon Phelps' famous course on Elizabethan drama, and he built the 
club around the books he acquired in England after graduation. An 
astonished Phelps could hardly believe that this previously 
unremarkable graduate was offering rhe university an "ascounding 
collection, every item a rarity." Yale enthusiastically accepted the 
gift, allowing Cochran to score the books in the clubhouse he 
donated. Club president and librarian, Steven Parks (SY '61) values 
the collection at twenty million dollars. Also establishing a 
$100.000 endowment, Cochran specified that the Club should 
limit dues to prevent "society men" from excluding less affiuent 
intellectuals. Today, a mere ten dollar membership fee buys access 
to a lifetime of food, conversation, and literature. 


Like the amenities, the conversation contrasts 
typical Yale fare. Vikram Mansharamani {SM '96) 
says thar in the thr<'e short mon hs he has been a 
member, he has natt "the must ~t i mula ting 
conversations I've ever had, not only intellectual, 
but also spiritual and emotional." From . 
throughout the building snippets of talk seem to g 
support his view. From the couch in the corner: .2, 
When Lionel Trilling lectured here, his favorite 
~ 
trick would be to walk into the classroom with a ~ 
pile of famous books and denounce each, throwing ~ 
rhem across the room and onto the floor. From the g. 
0 
high b:tcked chair agai 'IS' r~e w:11l: That was a ~ 
wondertul arriclc 1> • '(Ill ' I j uq read in the Times 
.~ 
LztertliJ Supplement. From behind the lace-covered 
table: No, l actually think Tina Brown has 1> 
marvelously revived The New Yorker. From in ~ 
front of the chintz curtains: Well, I think Ayn ~ ­
Rand appeals to young, intelligent people. 


"People feel more free ro have intellectual 
discussions," said Donna McDermott (CC '95) the 
adrni~sions comm 
d.l 
' 
<;he explains, 
"At the Club, rime p ·~ks rn( n ~lov; \y than it does 



**The Yale Elizabethan Club**
**Author:  Elena Zaide**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
in the dining hall." Members welcome the 
opportunity to spurn rhe frivolous for the 
philosophical. Amy Ng (CC '96) asked, 
"How often do you sit at the Daily Caffe 
and talk about Roman Sculpture? People 
don't think you're pretentious when you do 
that at .the club." Erudition is both 
expected and accepted. 

Lured by edible and intellectual 
indulgences, professors and students shed 
their hierarchical roles. Undergraduates say 
rhe access to faculty surpasses regular 
campus resources. A professor, helping 
herself to 
a 
sandwich, )Otns 
an 
undergraduate discussion to assert that, yes, 
there are professions so stimulating rhar 
people want to work while on vacation, 
and rhat she, herself, enjoys writing articles 
during summer break. Reclining on a 
couch, a professor emeritus calls into the 
next room ro ask a student how his singing 
is going. They make a date for rea next 
week. 

Rr
larively unknown to outsiders, rhe 
Club and irs genteel inclinations 
nvite misinterpretation. As one 
student said, "I guess it's a very exclusive 
club for English majors and professors." 
Campus myth has it that the Lizzie houses 
everything from a cafe, ro a secret society, 
to a band of retrograde Anglophiles. Like 
most myths, these mix the largely false with 
rhe partly true. Co:urary to rumor, 
McDermott says, "it's not made up of a 
majority of English majors doing 
Shakespeare for their senior thesis." 
Members talk about the Club's "diversity" 
with a meaning peculiar to the Lizzie. 
Inrellecrual diversity would be more 
precise. The Club embraces those 
proficient at what Ng calls "stimulating 
conversation," including a few electrical 
engineers, a smattering of social scientists, 
and a number of economists. According to 
Professor Beatrice Barden (GRD '80), 
admissions committee chairman and Club 
vice-presidenr, being generally interested is 
more important than having a particular 
interest. 

Members display a certain degree of 
homogeneity, although, according ro 
22 
alumni activist Henry James, Jr. (JE '40) 
"there is no obvious type." More apparent 
are those who are obviously not the rype. 
While the club is nor secret, it is selective. 
Mansharamani has "no qualms about 
saying that some people are right for it, 
some people aren't. Some people in the 
university community would be alienated 
by its elements of long-standing tradition." 
While not mandated, the members' 
manners favor imported gentility over all-
American audacity. Rebels and radicals will 
likely no more enjoy the club than suit it. 
Indeed, nobody speaks belligerently, nor 
does anyone dangle his or her participles. 
Undergraduate apparel consists of Ralph 
Lauren and the Gap, with a touch of 
Brooks Brothers or Laura Ashley. The 
members range from clean-cut to gleaming. 
Yet the admissions committee bases irs 
decisions solely on paper credentials. 
Members quickly point out that there are 
no steadfast requirements for selection. 
Beyond Yale affiliation, the constitution 
does nor specify any criteria. Admissions 
are therefore a simple process. The 
committee selects approximately fifty new 
members a year based upon 
rwo 
recommendations submitted by existing 
members. Each class has a quota: ten 
sophomores, fifteen juniors and forty-five 
seniors. At the end of the year, the 
committee selects four freshmen as "seeds" 
to starr off membership for their class. 
Faculty and graduate students undergo 
more rigorous scrutiny )o evaluate exactly 
how involved they'll be in the club," says 
Ng, a member of last year's committee. 
Nominees 
undergo 
no 
arduous 
applications, no swear-inducing inrerviews, 
no painful rejection letters-only an 
"indefinite hold" if a candidate's letters lack 
what Ng calls a "sense of the person," or 
appear ro be "written under coercion." A 
surprisingly high proportion of members 
receive acceptance lerrers, not even aware 
that they had been recommended. Bartlett 
says, "It isn't a nasry process." 

Admission was both more stringent and 
consequential in James' day. Akin to secret 


--- Page 23 ---

societies, rhe Lizzie chose those who "made 
their mark on campus." A Yale Daily News 
columnist and the Yale Literary Magazine 
edi ror, James claims he was the "least 
qualified" among the published poets and 
acclaimed genluses admirred in 1937. 
Admission often determined rhe success of 
a college career at a rime when exclusive 
societies had a social power bordering on 
hegemon ic. Membership awarded such 
distinction rhar James would seal letters 
with the Club's official insignia ro impress 
romantic 
interests. · Cole 
Porrer 
immortalized the Club's prestige in 1913 
after he did not get in. 

I'm a member of rhe Yale Elizabethan Club 
With a very hypercritical way. 
By belonging to the Yale Elizabethan Club 
I've a terrible political sway. 
I convert New Haven 
To th~ Bard of Avon 
And a highbrow I must be ... 

I'm a member of the Yale Elizabethan Club
To the Bard of Avon
And a highbrow I must be...


ames has no illusions about the Club's 
current prominence on campus. The 
Lizzie stood fast to its traditions while 
e university grew around it. With the 
Yale student body engaged in a greater 
array of activities, the Club no longer 
serves as a focal point of campus prestige. 
Members themselves describe it as a nice 
"peripheral" and "complement" to the rest 
of their Yale experience. Without a social 
or extracurricular center, the diverse subsets 
of today's campus have outgrown a singular 
standard of success. A stellar thespian may 
not realize that she shares a bathroom with 
a PU party president; no longer does any 
one particular sect command respect. As a 
result, dubs like the Lizzie no longer reign 
supreme. 

Nevertheless, the Club remains a mark 
of merit in its own circles, inducing what 
James calls "fierce loyalty." Active members 
go to tea three or four times a week. They 
reserve a line for th e Lizzie on their 
resumes. T hey speak of the Club with 
fervent tones of admiration and wax idyllic 
on its singularity. Rather than regard its 
out-of- the mainstream stand ing as a 
detriment, the Lizzie relishes archaism. It 
OCTOBER 14, 1994 
takes pride in idiosyncrasy, in deviation 
from the modern. Rules and routines have 
been decreed by precedence. Lopes turns 
away guests at 6: IS sharp. Members 
complain if a New Haven guest visits more 
frequently than the once a week limit. 
Reverence for tradition borders on rhe 
comic. Charles DiArcino (LAW '95) a 
third year law student, tells a story about a 
day last year when he placed a book on the 
fireplace mantle. There it remains, resting 
at the same angle, where other members 
assumed it had historical significance. 

Therein lies the Club's peculiar 
attraction. Although other activities 
provide free food, good talk, and literary 
stimulation, members describe the Lizzie's 
hold, a sense of devotion and affection not 
inspired 
by 
their 
other 
campus 
extracurriculars. What members ger, aside 
from physical and intellectual amenities, is 
a dim memory of "club." Irs rituals and 
rhetoric harken to a bygone era when 
membership provided what James calls "a 
tangible reward for what you do and who 
you are." On a campus increasingly 
fragmented and minimally hierarchical, 
such formal and explicit recognition 
becomes a unique privilege. Admission is 
an endorsement, a rare gift at a university 
dominated by overachievers. Tradition 
bestows prestige and exclusivity bestows 
distinction. 

And so the Club clings with the 
utmost tenacity to what Parks calls its 
"whimsical gentility." Inside, time halts; 
even the grandfather clock has stopped. 
The topics of conversation-Hamlet's fatal 
indecision, lago's green eyed monster-will 
be as fresh in fifty years. While members 
indulge in culinary dainties, bibliophilic 
treasures, and "civilized" company, they 
enjoy the privilege of membership. The 
Lizzie has rescued these luxuries from a 
postmodern mentality. When the vault 
opens next week, the Elizabethan Club will 
surely be the same. As it will the next, and 
the next. 

li1J 
£/ana z~ide, a junior in Calhoun College, is 
on the staff ojTNJ. 


**Selling the Syllabus**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 24**

Think the content of course books is confusing? Try unraveling the 
arbitrary-and legally dubious-
mechanics of 

T
his fall, amidst the bustle of the semester's opening days, 
one student walks irtto Book H aven to purchase the 
volumes for his romantic poetry class. Another shuffles · 
through the Yale Co-op's aisles in search of her particle 
physics text. Neither of our academic stick figures faces much of an 
economic decision. They might not purchase the books if they are 
financially strapped. There's always CCL for the frugal, or the naive, 
who have not yet heard of per-minute fines. Most likely they suck it 
up and charge it. 

The students' money will play a huge role in the economic 
success of the bookstore, but the traditional consumer decision of 
where to purchase one's goods has already been made. Professors 
make that decision for all of their students when they choose a 
bookstore through which to order books or a copy shop through 
which to order course packets. 

M
ost Yale professors choose either the Co-op or Book Haven 
to distribute their books. The Co-op has been an option 
for over a century; Book Haven emerged on the scene in 
1978, when Henry Schwab (MC '63)-known simply as Henry to 
many humanities professors--opened shop. Henry's personality and 
friendships are key to Book Haven's success. Common sense dictates, 
and the Book Haven story has proven, that professors bring their 
students' money to their friends' stores. Book Haven now carries 
many coursebooks for the history and English departments. 

Professors in these departments often shop for themselves in Book 
Haven, and the transition to ordering coursebooks by the hundred 
follows easily in their minds. 

Many professors view the huge Co-op as an inefficient 
bureaucracy when it comes to ordering books. Those who have had a 
bad experience in the past respond by bringing their students' 
business to Book Haven. Robert Watson, Director of Undergraduate 
Studies of the decidedly bookish Directed Studies program, has 
brought an enri·re table of coursebook business to Book Haven 
because of hls past experience with "such bad service from the Co-
op." History professor Gaddis Smith (PC '54, GRAD '61) explains 
that in the past, the Co-op notoriously under-ordered when he made 
his decision. "I would tell them I'd have a class of 300, and they 
would decide only to order 200 books." 

Only 200. Professors accuse the Co-op of 
impersonal service--a symptom of irs size, no doubt. 

Schwab can joke with professors in the check-out line; Paul 
Miserindino, who heads the Co-op's textbook department, has a 
much longer list of names to try to remember. This is not for lack of 
trying, however. Miserindino takes ambiguous comments about 
"personal service" as character assaults. "I talk to professors," he 
pleads. "I have a phone." In fact, Miserindino maintains that his 
deparrment is the only one in the Co-op not looking to increase its 
gross profit margin. "We consistently put service ahead of profits," he 
says. 

· 
Regardless of whether service actually increases under this 
strategy, profits definitely "decrease. To counteract the damage to the 
bottom line, which the Co-op must endure in order to maintain its 
primary goal of serving the Yale community, the Co-op tries to save 
money by occasionally under-ordering to avoid returning books. It 
turns down no book order, no matter how unprofitable, and it carries 
nearly all course textbooks, which sell for a measly 25 percent 
margin. Paperbacks ordered by humanities professors yield a more 
comfortable 35-40 percent, the profits most often lost to Book 
Haven. 

According to Henry, this 10-15 percent windfall is merely a 
coincidence. "We have had science textbooks in the past, and we've 
tried to get more of them,"he says. Specifically, Henry points out that 
hls business has carried computer science books over the years, and 
that he recently mailed letters to Group IV professors in an effort to 
attract more of their business. It seems odd, however, that this 
business would be desirable to Henry: the gross profit margin on 
these textbooks is so low that only a very large volume can make 
them profitable. Henry himself points out, "We're just not a big 
enough store to stock the science books." 

Although Book Haven is certainly the "little guy" in the battle of 
the books, it has become a fairly mainstream alternative. Smith has 
proven that other book retailers can provide satisfactory service by 
ordering his books through the Foundry Bookstore on Whitney 
Avenue. Smith's preference shows just how arbitrarily such significant 
financial decisions are made. When asked why he made the decision 
ten years ago to carry books through the Foundry rather than 
through another Co-op substitute, he responds simply, "They were 
closer at hand. I walk by them aU the time." 

Whereas many professors seem to choose a 
bookstore merely for reasons of proximity, 
professors in at least two departments regularly send



**Yale Bookstores and the Copyright Question**
**Author: Jud Gesing and Kathy Stroker**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
students to bookstores despite of their distance from Yale. Golden 
Thread Booksellers, a feminist bookstore on State Street, orders 
course books for three classes in the women's studies department. 
Owner Alison Cunningham has sold women's literature for over a 
dozen years, and some professors in the department have patronized 
her business for the last decade. Cunningham sees her business as a 
real-life complement to the academia of women's studies. "I think it's 
only obvious that women's studies would want to do business with a 
feminist bookstore. This is a real-world example of many of the ideas 
rhey're ~ing exposed to in the classroom." 

Students in Professor Melvin Ely's history classes have hiked a 
shorter distance for the past three years to the Blackprint Heritage 
Gallery, a self-titled "Educational Resource Center" on Edgewood. 
Owner Bea Dozier-Taylor feels passionately about the opportunities 
for Yale students in her bookstore and art gallery. "It would be 
wonderful if other professors would recognize that to talk about 
African-American history in the classroom, students can benefit from 
walking into what they're studying." Student effort first brought 
Professor Ely to the bookstore. Dozier-Taylor says that professors 
expressed concern about the neighborhood when students first 
mentioned the black-owned bookstore. This attitude offended 
Students who, like Dozier-Taylor, feel her store is nestled in a safe and 
strong community. Indeed, it's hard to imagine Yale students so 
uncomfortable with New Haven that they would fear the walk up 
Edgewood to Blackprint, just four blocks from Davenport College. 

I
n the spirit of the age of mechanical reproduction, more and more 
professors opt to supplement the books on their syllabi with 
course packets. This addition aspires to goals both lofty and 
obvious. The professor tries to save students' money by using copied 
information from a book rather than the whole book, exposing 
Students to a dense anthology of theses alternative to those espoused 
in the course books, and impressing students by suggesting that the 
informacion needed to understand their lectures is too cutting-edge 
to have yet been published. 

The use of course packets, however, raises issues far more complex 
0crOBER 14, 1994 
Excerpts from Brirf Highlights of N~w Copyright: 
The following shall be prohibited: 
(A) Copying shall not be used to create or to replace or 
substitute for anthologies, compilations or collected 
works. Such replacement or substitution may occur 
whether copies of various works or excerpts therefrom are 
accumulated or reproduced and used separately ... 

(C) Copying shall not: 
(a) substitute for the purchase of books, 
publishers' reprints or periodicals; 
(b) be directed by higher authority; 
(c) be repeated with respect to the same item by 
the same teacher from term to term. 


**Title: TWEEN THE VINES**
**Author: joel Burges**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T W E E N 
T H E 
V I N E S 
A Cornucopia of Capitalism 
Stew Leonard may be a crook, but his gargantuan grocery store provides 
only the best in fami ly-size values. 
by joel Burges 
As my old fritnd Andtca notes, "It's the largest dairy f:um in 
the world-
whar mort· is tht•rc to say?" Half an hour away. in 
Norwalk, Conne,ricur, lies Stew Leonard'~. Everyrhing about 
Stew's looms large, as ir ,t,pire~ w create an American dreamland 
for irs customers. As I turn inw the parking lor, a giganric decrric 
sign urges me t l forgo rhc apple picking adventure I had been 
planning this wn hnd: Afrn all, I can buy crisp locally grown 
apples for onl} 69 cents ,\ pound at Stew's. And if I'm a 
suburban parent, I c.ltl ptck up rwo pacb of Pampers at a 
cost of $13.89, and I'll save S.tOO! Maybe I'm worried 
about whar I'm going to \\hip roguher for dinner when 
spt·ci.tl on 1\:rduc whole or split chickens. 

A\ I park my tiny car among the Caravans, Range Rover~. and 
Volvos, I look up at rhc building I'm about ro enter. Lettering on 
the 'ide of the barn like srore declares that this is the "World's 
Largest D.llr} )tore A' Fc..uured In Ripley's &ii~v~ It Or Not." The 
word\ lure me inro rhi~ cornucopia of capitalism where, believe it 
or not, .til} thing c.m happen. Or so I'm led to believe. A~ I stroll 
/ 
into Stew's, a fake stone sign whi~ks 
b----
away any doubt: 
r---
RULL 
NuMBfR 
0:--.t: 
TH l. 
J 
/'"" 
( L \'1 O~IF.R IS .\L.\'<AY\ Rll.lll. 
my husband arrive' back in \X'estport on the 6:07 from 
Grand Centr,ll. Wdl, worry no mon:-roday See\\ has a 
/" 
r 
RUil NUMBlR T\\0: II 
I HE 
~ 
f~ 
REREAD RULE NUMB! R 0:-.1. 
, r1 
r::_ 
.;:,;{ / 
ct...sTOMlR 
,s 
~-' I:'R 
"'Ror-:c. 
I~ \: 
1' 

Although wday is a sedate day at 
_.....-c!._ 
~ ,._ 
"\ 
Stew's, the store usually overflows 
{ c:- _/.,.) .;. 
with customers, especially on 
1(;0\ 
Saturdays and Sundays. The 
weekend hordes file through the 
!\ 
store in one direction, thus 
preventing traffic jams. Herded along 
like the cows Stew milks for profit, 
the customers progress roward the 
final destiny: the cash registers. Am I 
just another doUar here? 

r wander inro the bread section 
and tcast on thc vi~ ion of Vienna rolls. Why, it's just as if I am 
enjoying the comfons of an Austrian Bread & Breakfast! I 
imaginc bl"ing warmed by a piece of California sourdough 
bre.1d I have jmt taken our of the microwave. Memories of past 
fhanksgi,ing' tlitker about in my head as I ponder the freshly 
baked pumpkin pies. Stew isn't trying to manipulate me into 
·l"ving I'm ar home for the holidays, is he? I ta~te a free 
\ample of the apple crisp offered just to the righr of Stew's 
Dancin' Bagel. )rc\\ Leonard's is surely a relief for the 
c..usrorner tired of the chains thar rreat everybody the same. 
gh I do feel like I'm one of the thousands rhat make the 
journey through Stew's on a weekly basis. 

As I move down rhe one-way aisle, I wander past rhe 
machine\ char pa~rcurize and homogenize Stew's-or rather, 
his CO\\S'-rnilk. I read a sign which says rhat Srew Leonard's 


--- Page 29 ---

sells over eleven million quarrs of milk each year. I even meet 
Clover, who has a button next to her head which I press to hear her 
mechanized moo. Stew creates these gimmicks, it seems, for the 
enterrainmcnt of children sitting in the carts being pushed around 
the store. There's one now, eating rhe ice cream cone her mother 
bought for her in front of rhe store. (Stew has frozen yogurr, roo, if 
you're worried about those extra pounds!) 

Yet rhe gimmicks appeal ro me roo. When I happen upon 
them, Stew's Farm Fresh Five band manage to 
endear themselves to me. I don't remember who 
rhe lead singer is, but the members include 
Lowfat, Skim, and Chocolate. Punch boxes back 
them up, singing "pack up your groceries in a 
Stew Leonard bag and smile, smile, smile!" Stew 
Leonard's resembles a musical. So here I am, 
charmed by the Farm Fresh Five, humming their 
tune as I wander through the dairy section, 
pausing to taste Stew's apple cider (of which I 
brought home a quart). On rhe threshold of the 
meat and poultry section, I find three plastic 
chickens, named after Stew's grandchildren. I 
press the button on the right, and Emma, Sarah, 
and Blake chatter and babble about milk and 
eggs. I look above them to the sign which 
reassures me with rhe words "We love to save you 
money." I am part of this brood of chickens, parr 
of the Leonard family-even if I am on a one-way 
conveyor belt ro a burdensome bill. However, as I 
turn the corner, Stew's disembodied face greets me 
with some grandfatherly affirmation and advice: 
"WE WANT YOU HAPPY. PLEASE! PLEASE! LET US 
Kl\:OW WHEN YOU'RE NOT SATISFIED ... AS QUICK AS 
A HASH WI: WILL RETURN MONEY OR REPLACE 
!!EMS." 

The cheese section is probably my favorite 
section. Among the yellow dairy products, I 
watch "The Candy Celery and Larry Lettuce 
Show." I once waited 20 minutes for the show to 
begin, skulking about looking at cheeses. I tried nor ro let people 
think I was actually lingering in order ro watch a head of lettuce 
and a stalk of celery sing, "We're Dole fresh vegetables. We're good 
OcOCTOBER 14, 1994 
for you. We're Dole fresh vegetables. We're good friends too." I 
sing the songs that a full-fledged Stew Leonard's customer sings. 
This realization doesn't sit well with me. 

Stew encourages his customers to befriend vegetables and 
fruit by offering savings of 38 cents on leeks, 56 cents on 
arrichokes, and 58 cents on pineapples. T he record-breaking 
amount of bananas rhe store sells is also noted for posterity in 
Ri ley's. Srew cares about rhe customer in me, and includes a 
sign with some health rips about eating 
fruit as I meander among 
I am pa 
chickens, part of the 
leonard family-even If I 
am on a one-way 
conveyor belt to a 
burdensome bill. 


--- Page 30 ---

pomegranates, grapes, and kiwi. If I sray 
healrhy, rhen 1 can come back to buy more 
to ear in order ro stay healthy so I can buy 
more to eat ... 

Shuftling along into the frozen foods 
section (which is not large at Stew's and 
mostly filled with gourmet ice creams), I 
see a suburban mot~er charring wirh an 
employee, Freddie. I am amazed that rhe 
woman and Freddie seem ro know each 
other. She is telling him how it's a good 
thing he wasn't around one day when she 
was in a riff about the state of some of the 
pasta she bought. I'd be very concerned if 
Stew's employees starred saying to me, "It's 
nice to see you again Mr. Burges." But, 
unlike Freddie's friend, I don't live out my 
daily dramas in a grocery store. 

Stew, however, does create dramas out 
of his very own grocery store. In 1993, 
Connecticut discovered that he had been 
perpetrating the biggest tax-evasion scandal 
the state had ever seen. He misweighed 
hundreds of items-thousands of. 
consumers like Freddie's friend were paying 
more money for less merchandise. 

RULE NUMBER THREE: EVEN IF THE 
GROCER DEFRAUDS THE 
CUSTOMER, THE 
30 

**Customer Is Still Always Right-As Long As He Or She Wants To Be.**
**Author: Joel Burges**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I turn the corner and I'm in the hot foods section, known as "Mrs. Leonard's Kitchen." The image of a woman in the kitchen has, predictably, been co-opted by capitalism's number-one grocer. While Stew runs the family business from his jail cell, Mrs. Leonard's glowing portrait honors the domestic dream of American womanhood. 

The dream is over. I trudge toward the check-out counter, having bought next to nothing-only a bottle of apple cider. 

As I walk away from the cash registers, autographed glossies of Billy Ray Cyrus and Dolly Parton sport their down-home smiles to draw me back. I can even see 90210 heart-throb/dork Ian Zie.ring out of the corner of my eye. Not only do star photos pepper the wall, but a little further towards the exit Stew displays pictures of custom'ers with Stew Leonard's paraphernalia. The photos have been taken all over the world, from Singapore to Sing Sing. I meant to bring a Stew Leonard's bag with me to England last summer, but forgot, and so I will instead have to wait to achieve celebrity status on the walls of Stew Leonard's. 

1111 
joel Burges is a sophomore in Saybrook College.


**TN} and Berkeley College Present Discussion with Elisha Cooper**
**Author: Not specified**

TN} and Berkeley College 
are proud to present an 
informal discussion with 
Elisha Cooper (TC '93) 
Art Assistant for 
The New Yorker 
Thursday November 3 
4 p.m. 
Berkeley College Master's House 
join TN} in welcoming back a recent 
alum and hear his advice and insights 
about the Nev-~ York magazine business, 
The New Yorker, and everyone's 
favorite editor, Tina Brown. 
OCTOBER 14, 1994


**Outlaw Culture: Resisting Representations**
**Author: bell hooks**

While speaking about society's "outlaws" 
and their representations, hooks casts a 
critical eye on Madonna, Spike Lee, 
Malcolm X, Camille Paglia, Ice Cube, 
and Naomi Wolf, among others. 
251pp 
Pb: 0 415 90811 6: S15.95 [21.95 Can]


**Cultural Studies**
**Author: Lawrence Grossberg, Cary Nelson, and Paula Treichler**

" ... the publication of Cultural Studies is 
an event no serious (or curious) reader 
can afford to ignore. If you plan to 
continue living in America, read this 
book."-JILS 
800 pp illus 
Pb: 0 415 90345 9: S24.95 [33.95 Can]



**Page number(s): 32**

SPECW..IZEll S GI41V7: 
# 1 IN SERVICE 
' 
---===::\___1. 
~~=:~ BArBill fl 
HowMdA 
BICYC&I$ 
243 Capt. Thomas Blvd West Haven 
933-4576 
Directions:l-95 Exit 43 
to the Beach 
