Publication date: 09/98
Volume 31, Issue 1

**Title: The Quiet Lesson**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale medical students and residents learn that not only patients face difficult choices about abortion.


My wife finished medical school last year. She never heard the word "abortion" uttered in a classroom. Which medical school was it that neglects to expose students to what is one of the most common surgeries among women? Yale.
-Jack Hill, Th~ N~ York Tim~s Magazin~, Jan. 18, 1998
Jennifer Kreshak (MED '99) is flipping through stacks of old classroom notes. "Gynecological oncology... hormonal patterns... contraception ... " she murmurs, rattling off title topics of lectures from two years back. "Physiology of pregnancy ... infections ... menopause ... " She's fairly certain that she never heard abortion outlined, or even mentioned, in the female reproduction classes which every Yale medical student is required to take, and her notes confirm this recollection.
Kreshak, who describes herself as pro-choice, isn't surprised that none of her instructors ever discussed a procedure that is the endpoint of one in four pregnancies, obtained by three percent of women of reproductive age each year in the United States. "It's not thrown in your face--if you want to learn about it, you have to go looking for it a little bit. But that's true of many things in medical school." During their third-year clinical rotation in obstetrics and gynecology (OB-GYN), which lasts six weeks, students can observe doctors in one of several New Haven-area clinics in which abortions are performed, but they are not required or directed to do so. "The opportunity is mentioned but not repeated," said Kreshak, who wimessed eight abonions during her rotation. Grace Koning (MED '99), coordinator of the Yale chapter of Medical Students for Choice, added, "On rotation, the resident is like your boss, and she just tells you where she wants you to go. In that sense, [observing abortions] is not optional but nobody is going to force you to do something you don't want to do. The residents like to consider themselves laissez-faire."
This hands-off approach to teaching medical students the basics of abortion is borne out by law. Recent amendments to U.S. public health codes establish defenses against "abonion-related discrimination": federal funds ace not withheld from physician training programs that do not teach abortion, and no resident or student is required to perform or receive instruction in abonion services.
Religious prerogatives also come into play. At Yale, one clinical rotation site is Saint Raphael's Hospital, which is administered by Catholic nuns. A medical student assigned to Saint Raphael's for her OB-GYN rotation not only never hears "abortion" uttered in the hospital corridors, but a concept as essential to a gynecologist's knowledge as contraception is also taboo. "You can't write 'binh control' on a patient's chan at Saint Raph's," a resident explained. "It's still amazing to me that that is the case. You have to say something like 'hormonal regulation.' You can talk frankly with your patients-I'm not going to walk into the room and ask a patient if she wants her menses regulated-but you also have to watch out for the nuns."
There are holes in OB-GYN-related education and training at Yale, SEPTEMBER 4, 1998 but the fact that the university offers comprehensive abortion instruction at all comes as a relief to pro-choice activists alarmed by the shrinking number of physicians who perform abortions in the U.S. The most recent Planned Parenthood survey estimates that just 12 percent of post-graduate physicians' training programs offer routine instruction in first-trimester terminations, down from 22 percent in the mid-1980s.
The current figures weaken one resident's assertion that "as long as there are residency programs, women will be able to obtain abonions."
Nonetheless there is no obvious sense of impending crisis in New Haven. The Yale wing of Medical Students for Choice is hardly a rabble-rousing bunch, or even a lobbying force: Koning lists its main activities as hosting speakers and sending letters of suppon to local abonion providers. Susan Yolen, director of marketing and public affairs for Planned Parenthood of Connecticut, can dig up any number of troubling statistics like the numbers above, but she finds reassurance in the 4,000 members nationwide of Medical Students for Choice. "If half of those [students] go on to provide abortions, then they would double the number of providers we have in this country now, which would lead us to believe that our future is secure," she said.
Half might prove too high an aim, since pro-choice leanings don't automatically translate into practice. As resident Andrea Jefriss put it, "I'm a pro-choice person, but I don't teach [abortions] and I don't perform them because I have religious reasons not to. People should have a choice, and I've chosen." Yolen's hopes for larger numbers of abortion providers in the near future also appear too optimistic when seen within the microcosm of the academically-oriented Yale residency program, where doctors pursue narrow specialties and few plan to become primary care physicians. Upon closer inspection, the Tim~ls stab at Yale's negligence in teaching abortion appears misdirected; as Kreshak clarified, the more imponant issue "is not what's going on in the medical school but what's going on with the residents."
Roughly three-fourths ofYale-associated OB-GYN residents, scattered across several clinics and hospitals in southern Connecticut, perform abortions. Contrary to nationwide statistics, "I don't see a dwindling number of physicians providing abortions," one resident, "Dr. Bennen," said. (Several residents would only speak on the condition of anonymity.) "That's not to say we're not entering a changing time," he continued. "The older physicians, who were around before abortion was legal, have a very different viewpoint. You hear about 'septic wards,' 23