Publication date: October 2006
Volume: 39
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Romy Drucker
- Editor-in-Chief: Adriane Quinlan
- Managing Editors: fanny Dach, Helen Eckinger
- Designer: Anna Zhang
- Business Manager: Nick Handler
- Senior Editors: Mina Kimes, David Zax
- Production Manager: Nicole Allan
- Research Director: Emily Koh
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Lauren Harrison
- Web Designer: Nicholas Moryl
- Staff: Russell Brandom, Tess Dearing, Elizabeth Gumport
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin and Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr. Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu,Josh Civin,Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe; E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

FEATURES
Garbage Pail Kids - Mina Kimes
On The Rocks - Lauren Harrison

PROFILES
The Candidate - Nicole Allan
Learning Spanglish - Tina Colon
Hamburgl'd - Laura Zax
The Classes Server - Mitch Reich
Suburbia on the Green - Benny Sachs

STANDARDS
Points of Departure - Romy Drucker
The Critical Angle - 
The Subtext of Sandals - Romy Drucker
Essay - David Zax & Adriane Quinlan
Endnote - Pat Hayden



**Title: Behind the Scenes at NPR**
**Author: Ari Shapiro**
**Page number(s): 2**

Ari Shapiro received his B.A. from Yale in 2000 and has reported on the Justice Department for National Public Radio since then. Based in Washington, he covers major national legal stories and the internal operations of the Department of Justice. In 2004, he led NPR's coverage of the Terri Schiavo controversy, and he is currently reporting on the Senate race in Connecticut. In 2005, he was awarded the Daniel Schorr Journalism Prize.


**Title: Hiz Kids**
**Author: Daniel Fromson**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
hiz Kids 
' 
y , . 
ff~ 
To FIND THE BRAINS, SAYS DR. 
Michael Norden, don't follow the 
calculators follow the Frisbees. In 
September, Norden, a psychiatrist 
at the University of Washington, 
released a study of private universi-
. ties showing that a school's perfor-
mance in Ultimate Frisbee corre-
lates strongly with its average SAT 
score and graduation rate. Over the 
last ten years, private universities in 
the top half of the Ultimate Frisbee 
ladder have averaged an 85% grad-
uation rate, while the bottom half 
measures just sixty percent. If that's 
not enough, consider the top seven 
Ultimate schools over the stretch: 
Tufts, Stanford, Princeton, Harvard, 
Dartmouth, Brown, and Yale. 
4 
So what do the promising in-: 
tellectuals of the Yale Men,s Ulti-
mate Frisbee team think of Nor-
den's analysis? ccYou're talking to 
the wrong person," says one team 
member, ccbecause I'm not going 
to graduate." When pressed, he 
admits players need a certain intel-
ligence to consider varying veloc-
ity, calculate long trajectories, and 
interpret wind patterns. ccwell," he 
says, ccthere's quite a bit of on-the-
fly physics involved." 
His teammate replies: ccThat's a 
load of shit." 

Norden disagrees. Citing MIT 
and other mathlete schools with par-
ticularly strong teams ·for their size, 
Norden says that there 'cmay be 
something about math spatial apti-
tude that is somehow advantageous." 
Spatial aptitude? · c'I've played 
many points with a beer in hand," 
says a teammate in a bandana. 
ccWhenever we play We~leyan, they 
play barefoot. You wouldn't see 
that in many other sports." He 
recalls taking drunken slip'n'slide 
belly flops with a hometown club 
team, and describes throwing Fris-
bees to break a pinata filled with 
joints and booze. 

Perusing the Princeton Re-
view's 361 Best Colleges, Norden 
was amused to discover a list of 
schools with the happiest students. 
cc Of the same seven schools ranked 
. 
for top Ultimate," he notes, cc six 
of the seven were also among the 
highest for happiest students." He 
chuckles. ccThe only one missing, 
that you _might find interesting, 
was Harvard." 

Norden also notes that several 
stone-cold academic schools like the 
University of Chicago and Caltech 
are conspicuously missing from 
Ultimate's upper ranks. Why the 
poor showing from these on-the-fly 
physicists? The explanation, per-
haps, is that their players had water 
in hand instead of Colt 45s. ccThe 
ones that are missing from the very 
top," says Norden, are the schools 
with cc a culture that's maybe a little 
bit less fun-oriented." 

The Yale team doesn't have 
this problem. Having finished their 
warm-up tosses, they form a circle 
on the field and begin to stretch, 
soaking up the hot sun on one of 
fall's last warm days. Suddenly, a cry 
of dismay pierces the scene. ~Two 
handles. of Popov?" one player cries 
out. The vodka in question must 
nearly b~ boiling. "They've got to 
be," he shrieks, "at like a staggering 
3 5 degrees Celsius!" 

A frisbee player with a working 
knowledge of the metric system and 
the chemical properties of ethanol? 
Dr. Norden wouldn't be surprised. 
-Daniel Fromson 
1 
•t. 
.~ 
. --, 
, 
. J 
.: 
. ' 
·~ 
j


**Title: The Boxer**
**Author: Russell Brandom**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

IN THE BASEMENT BENEATH CoM~ 
mons dining hall, between the main 
kitchen and the administrative of-
fices, there is a room marked with a 
plaque. The room is a walk-in cool-
er, and its plaque is a laminated color 
print-out that reads, in red letters, 
"Jasper's Box." Jasper himself is long 
gone he retired-to North Carolina 
in 2001 
but the sign remains. 

Jasper was in charge of main-
taining stored produce, and, since he 
first began working forty years ago; 
the cooler he stocked was known as 
"Jasper's Box.-" The sign came lat-
er, although no one is sure exactly 
when, just as no one is really sure 
who exactly Jasper was. The only 
THE NEw JquRNAL 


reminder of his years at Yale is the 
spacious cooler and everyone tries 
to fill it with their own stories. 

"He had perfect attendance, all 
forty years,, recalls Dan Flynn, the 
manager of Commons who worked 
with Jasper. Flynn's office is across 
the hall from Jasper's Box. ccWe'd 
have Christmas vacation for two or 
three weeks. We'd say <Jasper, where 
you going?' He'd say, ci don't know.' 
He'd just get one of those bus passes 
d 
" 
, an go. 

Another 
Commons 
worker 
chimes in. «He went to New York 
every weekend. He never stayed 
home. I would see him walking to 
the train station and ask him if he 
wanted a ride, but he never took 
one." 'She pauses. cci don't think he 
ever drove. I don't think he ever 
even owned a car." 

"I heatd, he got in a car accident 
when he : was seventeen," Flynn 
recalls. ccN ever drove again." J as-
per lived in the Taft Apartments, 
and could walk to work or to the 
train station. 

The refrigerator he left behind 
consists of two matching concrete 
rooms, blocked at each end by a stiff 
rubber curtain. · The thermometer 
reads 42 degrees, but it's not cold 
enough to be uncomfortable. The 
room originally stored only fruits 
and vegetables, but . as Commons 
grew, Jasper's job expanded with the 
cooler's contents. The front room 
holds mostly dairy products, but 
also assorted perishables: pickled 
eggplant, fig compote, a half gallon 
bucket of tomato basil sauce.' An 
entire corner is devoted to cheese, 
stacked in cardboard boxes under-
neath a ventilation grate. Every-
thing is stacked on plastic palettes, 
in piles as tall as a grown man. No 
single stack is light enough to lift by 
hand. It would take at least twenty 
trips to carry everything out of 
"Jaspers Box." 

October 2006 

CCHe was a hard worker," says 
Joe Veronesi, the head chef. 

Jean Ward the Commons em-. 
ployee who Veronesi says knew Jas-
per best 
is a black woman, freck-
led, with red hair. When asked about 
Jasper and cars, she says, ccThat was 
his thing." But is it true about the 
accident? She shrugs. 

A lot has changed over the last 
decade: The inner room of Jasper's 
Box is now the beverage room. 
Most of the space is occupied by a 
locked cage that belongs to Yale Ca-
tering. On the shelves, there are the· 
standard crates of alcohol, but also 
more exotic fare 
Tsing Tao, Kal-
iber, and Wolaver's Organic Beer. 
Loose cans have been swept un-
stacked into milk crates. The cage is 
new since Jasper left, although the 
name has not changed. 

No one calls it anything other 
than Jasper's Box. The workers who 
stock the cooler do not know any 
more than Jasper's name and that he 
is gone more or less what students 
in residential colleges know about 
John Branford or Ezra Stiles. It is 
all they care to know. 

Veronesi insists, «He's well-
missed." 
-Russell Brandom 
'· 
I


**Title: Grass, Point Blank**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

THIS YEAR, THE YALE OFFICE OF 
Facilities will spend approximately 
half a million dollars on grass. Its 
Grounds Maintenance division 
will sow roughly half a ton of seed. 
The total budget for these and other 
beautification efforts will amount to 
$5.8 million. c'We have to remember 
that we're in the middle of a city," 
says one maintenance worker. "Our 
job is to try and keep the campus 
as green as possible." At Yale, the 
grass isn't greener on the other side 
of the fence 
it's greener where 
there's money to pay for it. 

Last year, in an attempt to re-
duce operating costs, the Office of 
Facilities merged the management of 
Science Hill and central campus, cre-
ating a single office responsible for 
overseeing all campus grounds. It is, 
as Ground Manager Walter Debboli 
puts it, "a-difficult job." 

Tucking his 
shoulder-length 
grey hair behind his ears, Debboli 
summarizes his department's con-
tribution to the Yale community: 
"The next time someone throws a 
party and there's beer and vomit all 
over the lawn, you'll wake up in the 
morning and it's gone." 

He leans in conspiratorially and 
grins. "That's us." 

Debboli's office is less like an 
adrninistrative building than an 
oversized tool shed. Its dust-cov-
ered windows overlook twin ga-
6 
rage doors whose dented aluminum 
bears the street number in neon 
orange spray paint. Several green-
houses, a variety of sprinklers, and 
scattered gardening equipment litter 
the perimeter. Inside is a necropolis 
of outdated machinery. Dismantled 
lawnmowers line the cobwebbed 
• walls. The skeleton of a rusty Zam-
boni lords over the concrete floor, 
illuminated by what sparse sunlight 
manages to filter through the grimy 
windowpanes. 

The 
cluttered 
headquarters 
bears the mark of a single man 
working a two-personjob. The im-
mense blueprint for the Trumbull 
renovation takes up an entire chair, 
its pages draped over the cushioned 
seat. Debboli tends two phones at 
once, answering one at his work-
station before crossing the room to 
answer the other. As updates from 
his staff pour in, he delivers instruc-
tions on the fly, relaying messages to 
his crews across campus. 

''We get paper requests from all 
departments,, he says, holding up a 
leaflet. An overgrown patch of flow-
ers, it seems, has blocked a pathway 
at the Divinity School and needs to 
be trimmed. "Sometimes I get in-
volved," he says. If there's too much 
to ~e done, he'll go to the site with 
the workmen he oversees. 

Aided by a staff of 29, Debboli 
divides his crew into four area-spe-
cific groups and distributes the de-
partment's six riding mowers, four 
large walk-behind mowers and ap-
proximately two dozen smaller push 
mowers accordingly. Displaced but 
unfazed by the perennial construc-
tion, Grounds Maintenance must 
adhere to stringent seasonal time-
lines, synchronizing immediate con-
cerns 
the dangerously lush flora of 
the Divinity School with the in-
flexible dates of reunions and gradu-
ation, events whose grounds he must 
perfectly prepare before Yalies pour 
in to trample on the work. 

While lawns must be main-
tained, recycling carried out, and 
snow shoveled, the University still 
entertains loftier dreams for the 
natural splendor of its campus. ''We 
used to have a kind of fruit salad 
type of landscape,, Debboli says, 
referring to the diverse agricultural 
. agendas of his immediate predeces-
sors. "But now · we're going back 
to a more traditional look., In the 
1940s and so·s, ·landscape architect 
Beatrix Farrand designed a com-
plete campus planting system for 
Yale, outlining what kinds of shrubs 
could be planted and where. The list 
of accepted plants consists primarily 
of species native to the New Haven 
area dogwoods, crabapples, shad-
ows, and climbing shrubs, meant to 
beautify. the sides of dorms and aca-
demic buildings. This traditional 
focus on local flora is reinforced by 
the school's greener philosophy to 
maintain a "Sustainable Landscape., 

"The Administration's been push-
ing ~his word around a lot,, says 
Debboli, "But it ends up being less 
work for us. Local species better re-
sist cold and disease, and therefore 
require less pesticide and water." 

The administration may be 
invested in marrying Yale's values 
with its appearance, but Debboli 
is not motivated by a lofty ideol-
ogy. Instead, the supervisor con-
fides, he does it for the children: "I 
don't see students as problems, but 
as guests or customers. They're 
here for an education, but also an 
experience. Playing Frisbee may 
not be great for a lawn, but if you 
want to throw a ball around, God 
bless you." 
-BenLasman 


**Title: Finishing Lines**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

SPEAKING To A YALE ANGLER's 
journal board member is a bit like 
speaking to a cult member soon-
er or later, the patriarch enters the 
picture. History begins with a man, 
James Prosek, and continues with 
an epic list of his accomplishments: 
how, at age 21, Prosek wrote and 
published a definitive illustrated 
treatise on trout; how his artistic 
renderings of such fish garnered 
national press and comparisons to 
James Audubon; how he is now 
revered as a triple threat: a man of 
letters, a songsmith, and, as always, 
a pa1nter. 

Since 
graduating 
in 
1997, 
Prosek has published eight books 
and won a Peabody award, all the 
while remaining a figurehead for 
the magazine he helped create as a 
college student. The Angler's Jour-
nal, which Prosek described in the 
first issue as "the closest thing to a 
house for fishy dreams and visions 
we can provide," is blessed by his 
reputation. "His purpose, really, is 
his name,, says Aaron Alter, the 
Journal's current Editor-in-Chief. 

And indeed, everyone the board 
· members, the subscribers world-
wide, the wealthy fishermen who 
flock to the annual Yale Angler's 
journal dinner seem to be in awe. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 



**Title: The Yale Angler's Journal**
**Author: Jordan Jacks**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
But at its core, the publication 
is not a fanzine to Prosek, it's a seri.:-
ous literary magazine about fish. A 
typical issue includes well-crafted 
fishing-themed poems, tutorials, 
and personal essays about fishing, 
such as Brigham Young University 
Professor Michael Rutter's homage 
to the grayling. "I love all things 
grayling," he writes, "but mostly I 
love grayling colors: The splendid 
hues of understated lilac and icy 
green on the spiny sailboat dorsal 
fin; the fluorescent, sapphire-like 
· periods along the body; the dusky 
yellow-green tail; the alluring white 
lips. There's much to admire." 
The Journal is a handsome if 
unassuming publication, neatly de-
signed and expensively bound. Were 
it not for the artwork 
fly fishers in 
sylvan scenes, ancient Byzantine il-
lustrations 
one could be forgiven 
for mistaking it for, say, the Yale 
Literary Magazine. 


Unlike the Yale Literary M aga-
zine, however, it is almost impos-
sible for a Yalie to find a copy. Cur-
rent and back-issues are stored in 
a monstrous, full metal cabinet in 
the third floor of a brick building 
at 305 Crown Street. The office is a 
testament to the journal's removal 
from much of Yale society: schools 
of wooden fish and painted trout 
deck the walls, bumper stickers 
with clever fish puns· are pasted on 
cabinets, and against a wall stands a 
fly-tying table, on which peacock 
feathers and yarn are transformed 
into miniature insects. A painting 
of a girl wearing a scandalous pink 
skirt and black garters, fishing rod 
in hand, greets every visitor. 


But the only fellows this gal 
will ever wink at are her kindred 
• 
fishermen. According to Alter, ''the 
magazine isn't .really geared to Yale 
students. That being said, there are 
students interested 
it's just that 
most of them work on staff." 


The Yale Angler's] ournallooks 
October 2006 
beyond the Yale community for 
most of its funding, submissions, 
and exposure. Each year, when the . 
Journal attends New Jersey's Somer-
set Fly Fishing Conference, among 
the Prosek devotees and intrigued 
fishermen who court their booth 
are many confused by the conjunc-
tion of the words "Yale" and "An-
gler's." "Some people are put off by 
it/' Alter says. One question comes 
up again and again: Why do Yale 
students, who hail from a city not 
known for its trout runs, publish a 
journal about fishing? "It's hard to 
"h 
answer, 
e says. 


Yet here, once again, the mag a-
zine swims upstream to Its source, 
its founder, its hero. At conventions 
such as Somerset, which attract 
young, wealthy fishermen inter-
ested in high-brow fishing culture, 
Prosek's name is often the first loft-
ed from the Elis' lips 
everyone, _ 
whether "fly-fisherman or fly-fish-
erwoman," as the Journal's presi-
dent Tom Gilliland puts it, on some 
level wants to be James Prosek. 


The point of the magazine, then, 
seems to be to promote Prosek's 
brand of fishing, which marries the 
old -school allure of fishing clubs 
with the energy of ambitious un-
dergrads. What Ready Made Maga-
zine is to Better Homes and Gar-
dens, the Yale Angler's Journal is to 
its humdrum, old school standards 
like Field & Stream. The journal 
aims at establishing an intellectual, 
artistic community for fishermen 
away from the stream, regardless 
of whether that stream flows any-
where near Yale. 


If the Journal's mission is to 
create a truly global fishing com-
munity, its annual dinner is a tes-
tament to its progress. Last year's 
tenth anniversary celebration took 
place at the revered New York 
Angler's Club, featured protninent 
speakers from the world of fly-fish-
ing, and auctioned off a fishing trip 
to Argentina for two thousand dol-
lars. The hall was packed to the gills 
with young, rich fishermen, many 
of whom have no connection to the 
University but all of whom paid a 
$120 entrance fee. Yale students mix 
with trout enthusiasts, fly fisher-
men, and anyone for whom fishing 
is more than just a tug on the line. 


Discus_sions of fly-tying technique 
become artistic critique. 


For the Journal, the act of 
spreading one,s arms to measure 
the length of a fish is not simply an 
exercise in angling pride but a uni-
fying gesture, a symbol of both the 
fish and the mind that appreciates 
it. This is a group that sees in gills 
a fundamental, natural beauty. Hu-
mor is. not lost on them, either at 
last yeaes dinner, amid the discus-
sion, the suits, and the speeches, 
someone must have noticed the 
menu: a choice of steak or, predict-
ably, salmon. 
-Jordan Jacks


**Title: The Made-Up Counter**
**Author: Tess Dearing**
**Page number(s): 8**

IN THE BASEMENT OF THE YALE 
College Bookstore, wedged be-
tween a pastel selection of knick-
knacks, paper wastebaskets, and 
Vera Bradley paisley, there stands 
an oft-ignored makeup counter. 
Alongside dress hangers, computer 
cords, and bathmats, the Clinique 
makeup counter cements the Yale 
Bookstore,s reputation as a veri-
table Co-op, selling everything a 
student needs to succeed . 


Wait we need makeup? 


Most Yalies are completely un-
aware of the counter,s existence. 
' 
. 
Kledia M yrtolli asked herself the 
other day as she walked by it, 
c'Why? Why is it here? Is there ever 
.anyone hen!?, 


The Clinique counter is indeed 
a curiosity. Yalies often ignore it 
in their typically pointed quests to 
seek and purchase, · but they occa-
sionally stop and cock their heads. 
The counter does not call attention 
to- itself. The calming tones of its 
products are upstaged by flanking 
piles of typical gift-shop merchan-
dise 
mugs that read "Mr. Wonder-
ful, and posters of a beer-chugging 
John Belushi. It is a lonely, fre-
quently unmanned, indistinguish-
able island of perfume and mascara. 


Heather Butler recalled seeing a 
sign at the counter that encouraged 
her to ask questions, declaring "We 
Can ;I-Ielp You,, but the space was 
deserted. "I was confused. Doesn,t 
it say they can help you?, Cus-
tomers seeking skin solutions peer 
around for a Clinique "clinician, 
in vain 1,1ntil, to their surprise, a 
regular bookstore attendant mate-
rializes behind the register. In addi-
tion to the undefined nature of the 
counter attendants, the relationship 
between the Yale Bookstore and 
the Clinique counter is confusing . 


Neither the Clinique technicians 
nor the Bookstore,s manager were 
willing to go on the record clarify-
ing the relationship . 


Nationally, 
Clinique 
culti-
vates a certain image for itself. It is 
known as the brand that places a 
grid on your face, that scientifical-
ly determines its clients, particular 
and multifarious needs and solves 
them with more precision than you, 
the owner of the face, can hope to 
achieve. Clinique is about results. 


Ir>s about listening to your prob-
lems and handing you a solution in 
a clean, conveniently sized bottle 
or pot or tube, dearly labeled with 
its purpose. Deep Cleansing Emer-
gency Mask. Stay the Day Lip 
Color. Each of Clinique,s slogans 
is more encouraging than the next. 


ccp . 
D fi 
Ill 
, "G. 
nme. 
e ne. 
um1nate. 
1ve 
Happy. Get Happy.,, "Can great 
skin be created?, 


This particular counter, how-
ever, does not answer that question 
with conviction. Ellie Woodward 
observes the discrepancy between 
Clinique's claims toward scientifi-
cally-achieved perfection and the 
everyday bookstore employees who 
dole out advice at Yale's counter. "I 
don,t understand how they know 
stuff about makeup. I didn't even 
try to ask questions. They weren't 
wearing ~nything [Clinique]., 


On 
its 
website, 
preaches extensive training for all 
of its employees. At any Macy's in 
the country, you can find an identi-
cal Clinique counter with . one key 
difference: it will be manned by 
trained technicians, whose chipper 
voices inspire immediate trust. At 
the Yale Bookstore's makeup coun-
ter, however, confusion or mild 
despair 
is the usual reaction elicit-
ed by the eerie vacancy. "There was 
no one there to help me,, a baffled 
sophomore told me. 'cl felt awk-
ward. I tried to hide." 


We are left to wonder: Why 
is the Clinique counter there, and 
why do the "clinicians, look suspi-
ciously like Booktore employees? 
Will they be able to recommend 
the precise product that Clinique's 
scientists have developed for our 
beauty needs? And, at a learning 
institution famed for its professors, 
why isn,t there anyone to teach us 
how to scientifically follow a three 
·step process or apply the right 
lip liner? 
-Tess Dearing


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Elizabeth Gumport**
**Page number(s): 9**

AT THE ANNUAL NEW HAVEN MI-
gration Festival, birders gather at 
Lighthouse Point Park to observe 
the yearly arrival of hawks from 
the north. Though the day is damp 
and windy, the park's convention 
hall feels positively festive. The 
building, just yards from the Long 
Island Sound, houses an antique 
carousel, which was built in 1916 
and is now listed on the Connecti-
cut Register of Historic Places. As 
the volunteer bird-rescue organiza-
tion Wind Over Wings prep~res its 
show, a bridal party banished from 
the beach by the rain arrives to have 
portraits taken in front of the car-
ousel. One bridesmaid approaches 
the booth sponsored by the Pea-
body Museum, leans across a row 
of bird skulls, and asks directions 
to the bathroom. 


Near by, at the booth of the 
event's sponsor, New Haven Bird 
Club, a woman examines the mer-
chandise which includes a guide 
for novice hawk aficionados and 
"Flights of Fancy," a line of ~and­
painted Christmas ornaments 
be-
fore declaring, "I have the world's 
most complete wardrobe of bird 
socks!'' and moving on. The next 
table, sponsored by the Connecti-
cut Butterfly Association, is aban-
doned except for a lone caterpillar, 
who steadily climbs a leaf sprouting 
from a film canister. At the win-
dow, several pairs of binoculars are 
trained expectantly on the sky. But 
no hawks appear: the only animals 
visible from the hall are double-
crested cormorants, flocking on 
the stones of the breakwater, and a 
peach-and-white Shih Tzu, trotting 
down the beach behind its owner. 


In · the absence of hawks, side-
shows become main events. Just as 
the raptor display is about to begin, 
the bride arrives with her entourage 
and mounts the carousel. When the 
ride ends, the birders join the wed- · 
ding party in a cheer. The couple 
and its coterie depart in three limos, 
and Wind Over Wings volunteer 
Grace Krick removes a red -shoul-
dered hawk named Forest from his 
cage. The bird, seemingly the only 
hawk inN ew Haven, is followed by 
a peregrine falcon named Isis. After 
Isis, the volunteers introduce Bent-
ley, whom Krick calls "a very brave 
owl." Blind in one eye, the great 
gray bird shares a cage at the aviary 
with Solitaire, a female owl who 
helped nurse him back to health. 


As Krick describes the owl's 52-
inch wingspan, Bentley obligingly 
spreads his wings. "Thank you," 
Krick tells the bird. The show ends 
with the rare gold-en eagle 
"the 
king of all bird 
and the bird of 
kings" dines on rabbit, which the 
staff ordered frozen from a com-
pany named Gourmet Rodent. 


Uphill, deeper into the park, a 
few persistent birders brave the rain, 
still hoping to witness a hawk. Lo-
cated on the Sound, abutting East 
Haven, the park is a "bot~leneck," 
says Gary Lenunon, treasurer of 
the Bird Club, because the hawks 
prefer not to migrate across the 
sea. Thermals 
the pockets of ris-
ing air that allow the birds to gain 
altitude do not form above bodies 
of water, and so the hawks gather 
above the park each aututnn before 
altering their route south. 


Downhill, spirits are high in 
spite of the rain. Yesterday, at the 
Monarch 
Waystation 
a 
flower 
garden that provides milkweeds, 
nectar sources, and shelter for mi-
grating butterflies 
observers spot-
ted Clouded Sulphurs and Red 
Admirals, as well as the common 
Cabbage White. Today the butter-
fliers have already tagged several 
Monarchs, which pass through the 
park on their way to Texas, where 
they will lay eggs before they die. 


As the day goes on, the bird-
ers identify a peregrine falcon and 
an excited butterflier tags a Vice-
roy. The rain stops, but the clouds 
still hang low and gray in the sky, 
and only the most persistent hawk 
devotees remain. Prime hawk spot-
ting days are when the winds are 
from the Northwest after a cold 
front," notes one of the last, linger-
ing birders. Winter will come, and 
so, eventually, will the hawks, but 
today the breeze just blows in from 
the water and the carousel contin-
ues its rounds. 
-Elizabeth Gumport 
Illustrations by Philip Sancilio



**Dumpster Diving at Elite Colleges**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Perched on the curb outside of Saint Thomas More's Catholic Center on Park Street, an enormous blue dumpster bristles with trash. A woven plastic chair sits atop the heap of cardboard, garbage bags, and packing material, reflecting the afternoon sun like a tinfoil star stuck on a bedraggled Christmas tree.


When John Smigel turns onto Park, he sights the overflowing bin and grins. "This is the kind of dumpster we dive for," he says.
John's compatriots dart ahead, wringing their hands in anticipation of this unorthodox treasure chest. They circle their find, scanning for viable points of entry and promising bags. This dumpster, located on the eastern fringe of Yale's campus, eluded the Wesleyan student diving crew in May when they drove to New Haven to film their student documentary, Operation Ivy: Dumpster Diving at Elite Colleges. Back then, the group didn't stray far from Old Campus, so they're eager to "dumpster" the verb they use to describe their pastime in a different area.
"This stuff is definitely from Yale's art school," says Quinn Hechtkopf. Quinn, whose curly red hair sprouts from his head in haphazard pigtails, scrambles up the side of the dumpster and stretches his lanky arms over its lip. He pushes several large boards aside and extracts a bag of orange tubing from the abyss.
"Feels this paintbrush too congealed?" John asks, waving a dusty brush in the air.
After a few minutes, the group decides to abandon the bin; these resourceful art students haven't thrown out anything of value. After collecting the orange tubing and a can of red spray paint, Quinn leads the way to another dumpster, located behind the Afro-American Cultural Center.
Quinn, who graduated from Wesleyan this year, currently works as an electrician at the Harvard Club in New York City, where, he's quick to point out, he wired the garbage room. The two students who flank him Jean Pockrus and Brendan O'Connell are both juniors at Wesleyan. With John trailing in the back, the motley crew draws a few glances from passersby. Quinn wears a neon pink sweater bedecked with gold stars; Brendan's dirty-blonde hair is shorn into a sort of punk rock mullet; and John cuts an imposing figure with his shaved head and oversized Red Sox jersey. Though most divers try to lay low, this crowd attracts attention before they jump into the trash.
This image of divers leaping head-first into the garbage, however, is a misrepresentation perpetuated by the term "diving." Before they even touch the two bins nestled in the AACC's backyard, the group surveys its contents. Jean prods one of the garbage bags with a dowel, exposing a tear in the plastic. "Someone's been clustering here already." She leans closer and sniffs. "Cat food. Moldy paper. Wilting lettuce."

Quinn offers a kernel of wisdom: "If you cuddle the bag a bit, you can tell where it's from: the kitchen, the bathroom. Chunky objects with definition that's what you want. Stay away from squishy."
He grasps one of the bags, kneading and shaping the plastic with the deftness of a master sculptor. "This… is… is a sneaker."
John, though, is already inside. He hands Quinn two long strips of mirror a discovery that elicits praise from the group then moves on to a set of enormous, indistinguishable, wooden cut-outs, wedged deep below the bags. John raises them into the sunlight, and the dark, mysterious shapes are revealed to be garishly painted monkeys; acrobats, and clowns. He hoists the upper torso of a yellow strongman over his head and beams down at his friends.
"Hey," says Brendan. "Not bad for 15 minutes of dumpstering."
Operation Ivy the documentary's working title, pays homage to a defunct 80s punk band was conceived in late March and is slated for release next spring. It is an ambitious project, laden with environmental and anthropological implications. While the film is Jean's brainchild, she admits that the idea stemmed from necessity rather than activist leanings. "We needed money for vans," she says, her voice tinged with a light southern accent.
After visiting Yale during May of her sophomore year, Jean was astounded by the surplus of usable items tossed by outgoing students. Originally from Arkansas, she had never visited New England before arriving at Wesleyan. "I had been dumpstering before," she says, "but I had never seen this kind of wealth, and the waste that comes with it. The things people throw away at these schools…" Her voice trails off, and she shakes her head. "Anyways, after starting school, I started hearing about the great stuff people were finding around campus. Someone I knew found a one-hundred dollar bill in a jewelry box." Jean recognized the fiscal benefits of converting her hobby into a vehicle for social analysis. "We figured we were doing something complex," she says. "And if we documented it, we could get money to do it."
In May, the group submitted a film proposal to Wesleyan's Student Budget Committee, requesting $450: enough money to fund trips to Trinity, Harvard, MIT, Princeton, Brown, and Yale. Jean is quick to point out that her goal isn't to criticize the Yale community for being especially careless. "This isn't about demonizing rich students," she insists. John agrees. "Waste is endemic," he says. "It's not just restricted to a certain class or demographic."
As of October, the crew had prepared a three-minute trailer from eight hours of raw footage, which they uploaded online and intend to submit to environmental film festivals.



**Title: Operation Ivy**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
-
The trailer opens with a shot 
of Austin Purnell, a Wesleyan ju-
nior,_plucking items from a Harvard 
dumpster with exaggerated panache. 
While he dances with an empty wa-
ter cooler, classical music crashes in 
the background 
"there was actu-
ally an orchestra playing near the 
dumpsters/' Jean interjects 
and 
hits a crescendo, dramatizing the 
silly scene. Expository text flashes 
across the screen, transitioning to an 
excerpt from an interview with Rob 
Gogan, head of Harvard Recycling . 
"There's no formal policy against 
divers," he says, "but we don't like 
it." Images of teeming dumpsters 
are juxtaposed with a shot of a near-
empty "donation station," driving 
the point of the_ film home: Th~re is . 
an extraordinary amount of waste, 
and colleges aren't handling it well. 
Before applying to Wesleyan for 
funds, Jean and Brenda researched 
recycling programs at various uni-
versities in the Northeast. "As plans 
for the movie progressed, we real-
ized it could become a propaganda 
vehicle to develop colleges' recy-
cling programs," says Jean. ''I didn't 
know anything about this stuff be-
fore we put together the project." 
As a paradigm, the proposal 
cites Bates University, whose waste 
management program was orches-
trated by a non-profit consult-
ing firm called Dump and Run. At 
Bates, students' recyclables are col-
lected, stored, and sold in a massive 
.. 
tag sale in the fall; in 2005, the effort 
converted the goods into approxj-
mately $12,000 of profit, which the 
school donated to community or-
ganizations. ''Wesleyan is on a pro-
gram called 'freecycle,"' says Jean. 
''There's no real infrastructure just 
these big storage pods." 
"The pods are disgusting," adds 
Quinn. "Mildewing, decomposing." 


While Wesleyan's recycling 
program lacks a sturdy infrastruc-
ture, its dumpster diving commu-
nity has been a fixture for years. 
The campus' subculture is rooted 
in the school's Earth and Well-Be-
ing Houses, residential collectives · 
for like-minded students. Bren-
dan is the current manager of the 
WelL-Being .House 
. dec;li~ated . -to 
the spiritual and mental lives of 
students. At one time or another, 
Brendan, Jean, and Quinn have all 
lived within its walls. John, who 
graduated from the University of 
Connecticut with a philosophy 
degree in 2001, was a frequent 
guest. Together, they cultivated a 
-mutual passion for their unconven-
tional hobby. 
"I'm a musician," says Brendan, 
"and all of my equipment is from 
dumpsters 
amps, speakers, you 
. " 
name 1t. 
"I once found ninety dollar 
Diesel sneakers;" says Jean. 
"Forty boxes of douche," says 
Quinn. 
The team was inspired by 
Wesleyan upperclassmen. "They 
sort of transferred it to us, and we 
spread their advice," Jean says. "At 
first, we would go by ourselves. 
Then we started emailing each 
other inventory lists of our finds. 
Workshops were a . natural transi-
tion from there." 
Last year, Jean and Brendan be-
gan holding dumpster diving infor-
mation sessions for their classmates. 
Sponsored by the Earth House, the 
workshops attract between twenty 
and thirty people, who come to 
learn about the best routes to take, 
ways to identify good sites, and how 
to clean up dumpsters after diving. 
Brendan's handwritten flyer for the 
event calls it a "workshop for · be-
ginners and prof~ssional~ alike." 
After conducting four work-
shops, Jean had accumulated an 
extensive list of dumpster diving 
aficionados, which came in handy 
when she began assembling a crew 
for Operation Ivy. After submitting 
-the proposal, she received six hun-
dred dollars 
more than she asked 
for. When May rolled around, the 
vans, crew, and itinerary were all 
set but the overarching concept was 
still under development. As Jean's 
investigations helped expand the 
scope of the project, the film's pur-
pose grew increasingly complex-
was it a vehicle for social change 
or a subcultural artifact? "I tried to 
tell my mom what we were doing," 
says Quinn. "But she just heard the 


words ~dumpster diving' and said, 
~Quinn, I hoped this day would nev-
er come.'" 


Wesleyan students aren't the 
only ones picking through 
Yale's trash: Christopher Shirley, a 
freshman in Davenport, has dump-
stered since high school in Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina. "For me," he 
says, "diving started as a service for 
others." .Shirley started by joining 
the nationwide group "Food Not 
· Bombs,'' which takes food thrown 
away by grocery stores and pre-
pares it for the homeless. The New 
Haven chapter serves .meals on 
the Green. 
Christopher, 
whose 
thick 
chestnut dreadlocks droop over 
his forehead like spindly antennae, 
wears a t-shirt that says, "Mercado 
Libertario: Really Really Free Mar-
ket." "Everything I have on" 
he 
gestures to his loose blue pants and 
shoes 
"I got for free. I've dump-
stered at Yale, for sure, especially in 
the first two weeks of school, when 
I found lamps, couches, organizers, 
shelves. Most of the time, there was 
nothing wrong with it." 


For Christopher and the cre-
ators of Operation Ivy, "trash'' is 
not a dirty word; it's a synonym 
for "freebie." This semantic differ-
ence sheds light on the overarch-
ing goal of the pursuit: Dumpster 
divers aren't simply looking for 
reusable goods 
they want to re-
define the notion of usability. And 
at Northeastern universities where · 
they filmed, they want to show that 
far too much is thrown away. 
"The real problem is, in our so-
ciety, things that are thrown away 
are then perceived differently," says 
Chris. "Once something hits a can 
or a dumpster; it's inexplicably 
transformed. People think food in 
a trash can is disgusting, even if it's 
packaged." Chris points to the free 
bread put out at midnight by Atticus 
Cafe, a local bakery that abuts Yale's 
campus. "The bread is placed in a 
garbage bag, and there's _often still 
a lot left at the end of the night. My


roommate thinks that, when faced 
with actual poverty, many people 
are afraid of finding the things they 
need in the garbage it signifies the 
crossing of a threshold." 


ccT rash is stigmatized," says 
John. «That's why most people 
don't dumpster. That's why people 
were stanng at us. 
After the Middletown crew 
has safely stashed their finds from 
the afternoon the orange tubing, 
spray pa1nt, m1rror stnps, set props, 
and several yards of yellow fabric-
they head indoors. «If you dump-
ster dive on a consistent basis," says 
Quinn, «you'll find everything you 
need: appliances, cleaning products, 
food. Everything in this room"-
he gestures towards the table and 
chairs around him 
cc can be found 
in a dumpster." 
Jean agrees. ''It's not that dif-
ferent from what normal college 
students do, when they find miscel-
laneous stuff on the streets for their 
apartments. We just do it strategi-
cally." She carries a zine the crew 
put together to advertise the work-
shops; it also provides the Mid-
dletown sanitation schedule. The 
scrappy little publication includes a 
synopsis of the film project, an ex-
cerpt from John Hoffman's The Art 
and Science of Dumpster Diving, 
and a list of tips like "Restaurants 
bad! Bakeries good!" and ccTithe 
what you dive!" 
Quinn offers another nugget. 
"You should wear gloves on your 
hands othet wise they'll look like 
mine." He stretches out his palms, 
which are weathered and pink, the 
color of his hair. "Try to make the 
whole process as clean and neat as 
possible. When you take the con-
tents out of the bag, they're no lon-
ger neat and compressed; you end 
up leaving a little mountain of litter 
behind you." 
_ 
"Wear good shoes," adds Jean. 
"Bring a flashlight, a cart. But you'll 
often find what you need to carry 
the stuff in the dumpster itself." 
«Beware of the bottom of the 
dumpster," says -Quinn. celt might 
be a reservoir for dumpster juice." A 
grimace flashes crosses his face, and 
the group takes a moment of silence 
to recall the stench and consistency 
of fluids like cat urine, rain water, 
and curdled milk. 


Yale was the first school visited by 
the film crew of Operation Ivy. 
In the weeks after their New Haven 
trip, the group shot footage at W es- -
leyan, Trinity, Harvard, and Wil-
liams. While all five schools yielded 
a substantial payoff, the content and 
contraband nature of their trash dif-
fered. Trinity, according to Quinn, 
"was full of alcohol. .. every dump-
ster had unopened booze. We found 
crates of imported beer. There was 
even homemade beer." He grins, 
then adds, «That tasted crazy." X-
rated 
paraphernalia materialized 
across the board; the group shares 
a laugh over a pornographic DVD 
they found in a Harvard dumpster, 
which they describe as cc hilarious." 
"I think it was called cin 'N 
Out,"' says Brendan. 
The group was met with vary-
ing reception. Williams College se-
curity officers kicked them off cam-
pus («They made us put our finds 
back in the trash!" cries Brendan), 
while Harvard's recycling director, 
Rob Gogan, granted them an ex-
tensive interview and a tour of the 
University's facilities. 
«Those guys really have their 
act together," says John. Like Bates, 
Harvard uses Dump and Run. Af-
ter implementing the initiative, the 
Cantabs saw a 54 percent reduction 
in waste from 2002 to 2004, and their 
post-summer «Stuff Sale" generated 
more than $70,000, which they do-
nated to Habitat for Humanity. 


By filming at schools dur-
ing their spring move-out periods, 
Operation Ivy pinpoints a specific 
problem, described by Jean's pro-
posal as cc the sheer amount of stuff 
thrown away when -housing clos-
es." At Yale, the administration's 
response to this phenomenon is 
a program called Spring Salvage, 
which positions 177 blue cc donation 
drums" around campus in hopes 
that students will drop off their re-
usable goods. 
"We walked through a big gate 
at Yale, and there were just heaps of 
things everywhere," recalls Brendan. 
«They had recycling bins out, but 
they definitely weren't big enough. 
Stuff was just lying out." 
Yale's 
waste 
is 
renowned 
amongst the diving community for 
its magnitude and quality, attracting 
locals and transients alike. ccw e met 
a real cross-section," says Brendan. 
"Other students, New Haven-ites, 
diving gurus ... regular people. One 
guy, Juan, told us that dumpstering 
by the campus had kept him in free 
shaving cream and razors for years." 
ccy ale was the best," says Jean. 
"When we got there, no one wanted 
to miss out and hold the camera, 
so the film work is a bit erratic it 
was split between five people." The 
teams' finds included several print-
ers, a Prada bag, and a wrapped lol-
lipop thai weighed three pounds. 
They're quickest to boast, however, 
about the six iPods, all of which had 
easily reparable malfunctions. 
When Jean found her second 
iPod, she was approached by a 
stranger. cci was inside a dumpster 
at the time, and was excited with my 
discovery. Then this gray-haired 
guy with a t-shirt that said 'Talk 
Trash to Me' walked up and asked, 
'Find anything?' I was like, cWho 
are you?'." 
Silver-haired C.J. May is Yale's 
only full-time recycling coordinator, 
and though he doesn't recall meet-



**Dumpster Diving: A Yale Perspective**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
16 .
.
ing Jean and her crew, her account
seems plausible: "When I see scav-
engers, dumpster divers, I'll often
poke my head in and ask, 'How's
it going?"' He doesn't reprimand
them. "If people. stopped dumpster
diving, .the amount of waste on our
hands around here would increase
tremendously."


While the . crew of Operation
Ivy· is critical of the overflow that
evades the dona~ion . drums, they
may have ignored recent improve-
ments. In 2005, Spring Salvage col-
lected 18 tons of belongings
far
less than the amount collected at
Bates, a school with only 1,600
students to Yale's 5,300. This year,
however, Yale Recycling more than
doubled its intake, collecting 38
tons of reusable goods.


C.J. attributes the gain to the
acquisition of warehouse space, a
pair -of recycling trucks, and a team
of approximately 20 students. The
new system, similar to Dump and
Run in that reusables are strategi-
cally collected and stored, differs in
its final application. "Yale doesn't
like the idea of selling things, as
there a,re liabilities. So, instead, we
invite ninety New Haven non-prof-
its to come to the warehouse," he
explains. After the non-profits sign
forms to clear the University of re-
sponsibility, they can then use or
sell the goods as they see fit.


There is still, however, the
problem of education what John
refers to as "the supply side of
trash." Despite the efforts of Yale
Recycling, C.J. admits that "50% of
what ends up in the dumpsters here
is reusable.'' Most students know
the customary recyclable materi-
als
paper, cardboard, glass
but
are unlikely to donate items that
are similarly useful, like a half-used
bottle of laundry detergent. Or a
broken iPod.


f dumpster diving reduces waste
buildup
and
reassigns
value
to the goods that society has left
behind, why does Harvard's Re-
cycling Coordinator Rod Gogan
•
disavow it on camera? It may be a
matter of legality. Because dump-
sters are often located on private
property, removing their contents
is technically trespassing.


"It's illegal to actually get into
a dumpster," says Jean, "what with
the liabilities and all. But most
people want others to take their
stuff, so they'll look the other way."


Even though many choose to ig-
nore dumpster divers, the ambigu-:-
ous legality can make divers jittery.
"Once, I was inside of a dumpster,"
recalls Christopher, "and a police
officer walked up to me. I was pret-
ty nervous, but all he said was, 'Re-
cycle and reuse."'


"Cops usually don't care," af-
firms Quinn. "It's business owners
who get upset; they'll consistently
come out of their stores to scare
away div~rs. I had some friends
who used to dumpster behind a de-
partment store. To discourage them,
the manager dumped rose oil on the
bags. My friends were like, 'Sweet,
this smells good now."'


Others think that dumpster
diving is an invasion of privacy-
sometimes, the skeletons in people's
closets turn up in their wastebaskets.
''In a way, I can understand why
people don't like divers," says John.
''When you see someone going
through your trash, it's upsetting."


Jean, Quinn, and Brendan have all
found personal items while dump-
stering: diaries, ID' s, credit cards.
"It explains why the most common
reaction we get is awkwardness,"
says Brendan.


Not everyone, however, reacts
to dumpster div€.rs with disdain or
trepidation. "One night at Yale,"
recalls Jean, "I was going through
a dumpster near 0 ld Campus,
throwing the stuff I wanted onto
the street
"


Quinn interjects, "It looked
like someone had been dumped and
their ex had thrown all of their stuff
out the window."


"So I was on the lip of the
dumpster," continues Jean. "It was
pretty late, and a New Haven bus


--- Page 17 ---
stopped next to me. The ~river got
out of the bus and asked me if I
was alright
she offered to buy me
some food. I told her I was fine, but
she insisted, and returned with a
Philly cheese steak ·and some juice.
Another guy gave me a hamburger.
I didn't have the heart to tell them I


was a vegetanan.


Quinn laughs. "Once, when
we were diving, a guy walked by
and said, 'Be careful kids
it's ad-
dictive.' He's right: Jean will dump-
ster for ten . hours. She's a total
dd.
a
ct.


Jean shrugs. "Unlike most peo-
ple, I didn't get into dumpster div-
ing because of environmentalism;
it's something I've just done for a
long time. But as plans for the mov-
ie progressed, I realized I wanted to
come up with policies that address
the issues I'm coming across."


Passing observers, Williams
security
officers,
and Quinn's
mother may see dumpstering as a
worthless pursuit, but Operation
Ivy aims to prove otherwise. When
extracted from a dumpster and held
up to the light, a dark cutout can be
reassessed as a monkey, an acrobat,
or a strongman; when documented
on film, the apparently lowly act
of seeking out garbage can he simi-
larly redefined.


"We want to break the stigma
that surrounds trash," says John.
"We want colleges to imple-
ment better recycling programs,"


Jean nods, . her eyes lighting
with purpose. "We want to make a
good movie."


Mina Kimes, a Senior in Davenport
College, is a Senior Editor ofTNJ.
-
October 2006


**Spanglish in the Classroom**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

he teacher is
telling a story about a zorro who
vivia en el bosque con sus amiguitos,
but the restless class keeps calling out
answers without raising their hands.
"!Manos, yo quiero ver las manos!"
she insists, her voice now hoarse
from a long day of teaching. She tells
one boy to pay attention in broken
English and then returns to her les-
sons in Spanish.


Over the next 45 minutes, this
scenario repeats itself the teacher
yells out a question in one language,
students respond in the other, and
the two languages blur together. A
girl with beads and cornrows pumps
her hand in the air "ooh, ooh, yo
know!" In the front, a chubby His-
panic boy begs in ·almost perfect
18
Spanish for the. teacher to call on
him "YO quiero decirle el answer!"


At New Haven's John C. Daniels
School, the dominant language is
Spanglish.


A self-proclaimed "pioneer in
dual-language education," the J.C.
Daniels school is trying to become
a place ''where all children can
learn/ don de todos los niiios pueden
aprender. '' Sixty percent of the 650
students are Hispanic. At the be-
ginning of September, J.C. Daniels
moved into a colossal $44 million
glass structure
a spotless 90,7 40
square foot building complete with
an oversized sunken gym and a
shiny silver "cafetorium." The walls
are plastered with historical displays
declaring "Celebremos la Hispani-
dad" and with the national flags of
Peru, Cuba, Panama, Mexico and
Puerto Rico.


"We are not a bilingual school,"
insists Robin Barna, Head Instruc-
tional Coach at J. C. Daniels for the
past fifteen years. She explains that
at bilingual schools, after thirty
months, students are sent off. This
school is, she attests, "completely
dual
language
here, · everybody
learns both." After basic training
in their native tongue during kin-
dergarten and first grade, all chil-
dren, regardless of their language
background, are plunged into a mix
of homework and tarea, arithmetic
and matemdticas, classrooms and
salones, teachers and maestros. From
second to sixth grade, on alternate
weeks, each subject is taught in ei-
ther English or Spanish. As a result,
classes move straight from atoms to
moleculas without pausing for
review. Each classroom contains a mix
of English-dominant, Spanish-dom-
inant, and completely bilingual stu-
dents. "They help each other learn,"
Barna says.


"The kids love it," says Prin-
cipal Gina Wells. "Mostly it's the
parents who pull their kids out."
She estimates that eighty percent of
the parents love the program and
the other twenty percent complain.
Some African-American families see



**Title: little use for dual language education**
**Author: Tina Colon**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
little use for dual language education 
when Spanish will only be practiced 
at school, and the occasional Latino 
family will prefer to abandon Ia 
lengua de patria altogether, sending 
their children to a more convention-
al school. 


Despite 
its 
detractors, 
J.C. 
Daniels shows no signs of slowing 
down. Before the recent move, two 
small separate buildings 
housed 
its classrooms. Students would run 
across the street from _ class to class, 
teachers felt cramped, and a 23-year 
battle for a new location began. 
Now, the spotless month-old facil-
ity dominates Congress Avenue, 
and every aspect of the school ex-
udes an aura of efficiency. With the 
help of a specialist from Califor-
nia, teachers are now implementing 
the regimented "SlOP" (Sheltered 
Instruction Observation Protocol) 
program of instruction, which · cov-
ers lesson techniques for everything 
from vocabulary building to reading 
comprehension. 
Students show improved - per-
formance on standardized tests in 
all subjects, and although it is still 
a neighborhood public school, its 
growth is evidenced by the ten bus-
es and seven vans it employs daily. 
Administrators may be forced to 
turn applicants away next year, as 
October 2006 
the school aspires to become a more 
competitive magnet school with en-
trance exams that admit only New 
Haven's brightest students. 
The dual language program is · 
far from perfect. '' Si, es dificil," a 
substitute teacher sighs when asked 
about the challenge of bilingual in-
struction. During math class, she 
often finds herself begging English-
speaking students to stop complain-
ing that they don't understand-
double-digit addition is the same in 
every language. While distributing 
worksheets, she must constantly re-
explain the instructions in English 
for students who didn't understand 
the Spanish the first time. 
It's most difficult for the non-
Hispanic students, who tend to be 
less comfortable with Spanish than 
the Latino students are with English. 
Outnumbered by Spanish-speak-
ing and bilingual Hispanic students, 
Barna concedes that these English-
dominant students "are not learning 
Spanish as quickly as we'd like them 
to." The school has mastered Eng-
lish as a Second Language instruc-
tion, but is still looking for a Spanish 
as a Second Language teacher. 
Such an inconsistency is the re-
sult of New Haven's staggeringly 
fast demographic shift. In the 1 970s, 
Latinos made up less than four per-
cent of New Haven's population. 
Today, they comprise nearly one 
third of its citizens, and the city is 
still learning how it can best serve its 
new residents. 
Although the school hosts chil-
dren from all of New Haven, most 
live in the Hill neighborhood near 
the school. Compared with New 
Haven as a whole, which the last 
census listed as 21% Hispanic and 
37% African-American, this neigh-
borhood holds a disproportionately 
high Latino concentration 
4 6% are 
Hispanic, a minority group which 
surpasses the black residents who 
make up 39o/o. Here, homes where 
Spanish is the main language ( 41%) 
are almost as prevalent as those that 
are English-dominant (54%). Of 
these Latinos, half still speak im-
perfect English. As more enroll at 
J.C. Daniels, students from a bilin-
gual home environment persistently 
outshine those raised in a single-lan-
guage home. 
Though the curriculum of this 
elementary school is distinctive, its 
students are like students every-
where: they sit together, eat to-
gether, pass notes to each other in 
class. Over the past eight years, J.C. 
Daniels has offered the challenge of 
stepping into bilingual shoes five 
days a week providing children a 
comfortable learning environment 
where they can get to know their 
neighbors without losing or hiding 
their culture. 
"They're raised together. Ies 
like they're brothers and sisters. It's 
definitely different." At J. C. Daniels, 
the kids of New Haven are learn-
ing to celebrar Ia hispaninad within 
their neighborhoods and within 
their homes. They are learning, one 
classroom at a time, to become one 
comunidad with two idiomas. 
Tina Colon is a Sophomore in Bran-
ford College. 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: julian darwa·ll**
**Page number(s): 20**

I 
TTl 



**Title: An Internet Poll Robs Louis' Lunch of its Crown**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
• 
An internet poll robs Louis' Lunch of its crown. 
merica voted. 
And though the official an-
nals of gastronomic history are fa-
mously unsettled on the subject of 
the hamburger's origin, an internet 
poll conducted during August's 
first annual National Hamburger 
Festival in Akron, Ohio claims to 
have divined the historical truth. 
Yes, the long contested history of 
the hamburger's origin is settled. 
The verdict is in. The poll decided 
22 
' 
the outcome of ccThe Hamburger 
Hearings,,, a mock trial at which 
modern day representatives of four 
historical claimants to the invention 
of America,s favorite food present-
ed their cases before a judge and his 
jury, the Burger Commission. 
This actually happened. 
The Elm City's Louis' Lunch 
was one contender at the hearings. 
The famed Crown Street luncheon-
ette, which claims to have sold the 
first hamburger 68 years before 
the birth of the Big Mac, garnered 
only 26% of the vote. Louis' Lunch 
was three percent shy of second 
place, which went to the Menches· 
family of Akron, Ohio. The cy-
ber-verdict ·bestowed entrepreneur 
Charles Nagreen with the coveted 
title, "Father of the Hamburger," 
for a defining moment at the 1885 
World's Fair when he sandwiched 
meatballs between slabs of bread 
for the eating ease of ambulatory 
fairgoers. And so it was that Louis' 
Lunch was relegated from the al-
ready dubious status of very-argu-
ably-the-home-of-the-first-sort-of 
hamburger in the United States 
to 
at-best-the-home-of-the-third-
maybe hamburger in America. 
Louis, Lunch,s affidavit from 
the New Haven Preservation Trust 
can't hold a candle to the fanfare 
that Nagreen's legacy enjoys in his 
native Seymour, Wisconsin, where 
the 
modern-day 
mascot 
Ham-
burger Charlie serves as the city's 
representative on all beef-related is-
sues. Hamburger Charlie's voice is 
appealing. He sounds like Santa,s 
midwestern cousin jolly, well-fed, 
hyper-commercialized. He is a gra-
cious winner. ccLouis' certainly has 
the longest continual selling ham-
burger/' he says conciliatorily dur-
ing a short telephone interview. 
While H-amburger Charlie, on 
the other end of the telephone, is 
just a voice, Ken Lassen barely has 
one in person. "How old do you 
think I am?" he demands in .soft 
gravelly tones. Lassen is the 89-year-
old grandson of Louis Lassen, the 
establishment's eponymous found-
er, who, one fateful day in 1900, 
slapped a patty between two slices 
of toast for a customer on the nin. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 


Today, Lassen's own son, Jeffrey, 
works the counter from 6:00p.m. to 
2:00 a.m. each business day, while 
the elderly Lassen jokes that he is 
u semi-retired." The phrase, meant 
to describe the state of Lassen's ca-
reer, is a metaphor for the state of 
Louis' Lunch itself, a euphemism 
for a dying American way. 
Lassen was flipping patties long 
before the statesmen and business-
men of Seymour, Wisconsin even 
learned of their town's hamburger 
history. 
Raised by his grandpar-
ents, Lassen spent his childhood 
behind the counter, helping put 
meat into the u grinder" a special 
cast-iron grill and sampling it as 
it came out. He began working for 
his family the day after he gradu-
ated from high school. Lassen is 
a tradesman whose goal is the per-
fection that comes -from special-
ization, not the profit that comes 
from commercialization. 
''What 
do I know best? The lunch coun-
ter," says Lassen, who has eaten an 
unfathomable number of hamburg-
ers 
all made at Louis' Lunch. 
The appeal of Louis' creation, 
so starkly in a class of its own, may 
be inaccessible to the uneducated 
masses. 
A burger at Louis' is a 
thick patty, broiled vertically in the 
grinder and served between two 
slices of white toast. The emphasis 
is on the flavor of the meat. ''Every . 
element of the burger is deferential 
to the meat, is there to comple-
ment it," explains Robin Goldstein, 
author of New Haven's scathing 
restaurant guide The Menu. ''The 
bread is really just there to protect 
your fingers from the patty.'' The 
only acceptable fixin's at Louis' are 
tomato, onion, and cheese. Ketch-
up is verboten the restaurant's 
t-shirts portray a ketchup bottle_ 
barred behind the diagonal chord 
struck through an angry red circle. 
Some see Louis' -purism 
as 
classy; others find it needlessly aus-
tere. Either way, it probably hurt 
Louis' at the Hamburger Hear-
ings, where kitsch trumped class. 
August's internet poll awarded 
first and second place to burger-in-
novators who hail from two cities 
that make circuses of their dubious 
burger heritages. Akron is home 
not only to the ~enches broth-
ers but also to the uHamburger 
Festival." America's other burger 
fete, "Home of the Hamburger," 
takes place in Hamburger Charlie's 
Seymour, Wisconsin. In that same 
city, burger lovers can make a pil-
grimage to the Hamburger Hall 
of Fame to admire photographs of 
the world's largest hamburger, an 
8,266 pound whopper prepared in 
Seymour in 2001. "They're profe~­
sionals," Lassen says of the burger 
mavericks who stole spots one and 
two. He shakes his head disdain-
fully. ccThey just aren't about what 
we're about." 
Few businesses are anymore. 
The Lassen's family-run establish:-
ment is on the verge of extinction. 
Because both of Lassen's sons are 
divorced and childless, it's likely 
the next owners won't even be in 
the family. 
Lassen hopes to live 
to see grandchildren, but not for · 
the sake of keeping the business in 
-
the bloodline. "I just want grand-
kids," he says, staring at his diner 
through cataract-damaged eyes. 
He adds, "There's more to life than 
hamburgers.''
Laura Zax is a Freshman in Silli-
man College. 



**Title: Will Yale no longer be the lax Ivy?**
**Author: Lauren Harrison**
**Page number(s): 24**

Will Yale no longer be the lax Ivy?_ 
by· Lauren Harrison 
' ' . 
' . 



**Title: Yale's New Drinking Law: A Crackdown on Campus**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
n October 13th, a thin 
green pamphlet offering 
"Information for the Yale 
Community regarding 
Connect-
icu.t's cAct Concerning Underage 
Drinking; P.A. 06-112"' surfaced 
in residential college dining halls. 
Appearing twelve days after · the 
new law came into effect, the pam-
phlet was an overdue attempt by 
Yale to clarify the state's new alco-
hol laws. Since late August, rumors 
and speculation have kept students 
wondering how the new law would 
affect social life at Yale. So far, it 
is altering what it means to attend 
this historically looser-laced mem-
ber of the Ivy League. 
October 2006 

Only a month ago, three gig-
gling Yale women enjoyed a care-
free evening out on the town. They· 
were dressed alike 
each wore her 
own version of the skinny jeans, 
beaded top, and stiletto heels night-
life uniform and all three left their 
dorm holding an alcoholic beverage 
of choice. Two splashed beer out 
of cans as they skipped down Cha-
pel Street, while the other sipped 
discretely out of a red Solo cup. A · 
balding policeman stationed at the 
corner of High and Chapel Streets 
nodded at the girls as they passed, 
then glanced at his watch. Although 
the girls were clearly not 21, he did 
not stop them. He leaned wearily 
against the street sign and watched 
them enter the Sigma Alpha Epsi-
lon fraternity house. Another night, 
another party. 

On the night of September 30th, 
the evening that the law went into 
effect, the scene was markedly dif-
ferent. Police patrolled the streets 
surrounding Yale with a new vigor. 
They endured tense negotiations 
with residential college deans, ar-
rested undergraduates using fake 
IDs, and handled the fallout of a 
recent sting operation that cracked 
down on New Haven liquor stores. 
As one cop dragged a handcuffed 
undergraduate out of Toad's Place, 
he shouted, ccDoes t4is mean any-
thing to you? Do you understand 
what's happening here?" 

Fifteen years from now, it may 
be clear what is happening here-
what effects the law has had on the 
University's atmosphere. At the 
present, it's uncertain whether Yale 
will be able to maintain its fun-lov-
ing reputation. In a 2004 editorial, 
the staff of The Harvard Crimson 
enviously pointed to ccNew Ra-
ven's relaxed drinking laws," and 
"Yale's benevolent policies towards 
underage alcohol consumption." 

Connecticut's new law raises the 
question of who is responsible for 
creating the campus atmosphere 
that will best keep students happy, 
healthy, and safe 
the University 
Administration or a group ·of state 
legislators. For all of the animus 
Elis bear against Harv:ard and its 
strict tailgating ·policies, the Can-
tabs' rules are the product of the 
Boston Police Department, not 
Harvard President Derek Bok. 

Should theN ew Haven police crack 
down, there is little indication that 
Woodbridge Hall will put up more 
of a fight than its Cambridge coun-
terpart. If it does not, what social 
attractions will Yale offer the Class 
of 2011? Will the next generation of 
stiletto-clad trios and SAE revelers 
take this into account when they 
decide whether to come to Yale? 

No current student can answer 
that question. Nor can the many 
New Haven liquor stores, dance 
clubs, or bars that watched with 
bewilderment as years of "letting it 
slide" and cclooking the other way" 
came to a screeching halt on Oc-
tober tst. Even those vendors that 
knew about the revised law were 
unsure how much it would change. 

When a law affects a state's entire 
underage population, one would 
expect a more visible attempt to in-
form the public. Before the belated 
pamphlets, 
however, 
education 
came in the form of a crackdown, 
and no one is sure when a new sta-
tus quo will emerge. 

n June 2nd, when Connecticut 
Governor M. Jodi Rell signed 
the act into law, most Yale under-
graduates were far from campus. 
Driven by the efforts of the Gov-
ernor's Prevention Partnership 
a 
coalition between the Connecti-
cut state government and business 
leaders to "keep Connecticut's 
youth ~afe, successful and drug-
free'' 
the law sealed loopholes 


--- Page 26 ---

' 
left open by its predecessor. 

The previous law had no provi-
sions against minors possessing al-
cohol on private property. Although 
teens could not legally purchase 
ures, especially Yale College Mas-
ters, who are held liable under the 
same laws that would send Mommy 
to jail for little Joey's kegger. 

booze, downing J aegerbombs in 
ocated just down the street from 
their parents' basement was ''safe." 
........ the freshman dorms on Old 
Parents who provided alcohol to 
Campus, College · Wine and Liquor 
youngsters were rarely penalized, 
ran into trouble with the law this 
as there was no ''criminal social 
past September. Following a calm 
host law" to hold adults liable for 
summer, the return of students to 
underage drinking in private homes. 
campus brought .a rash of new prob-
U nderage drinkers in Connecticut 
lems. 

''We've had trouble in the past, 
were, for years, shielded from po-
_ but this is something new,'' says an 
lice intervention. 
assistant manager who asked to not 
The new act effectively ends 
be identified. ccwe've always been 
the days when the ''cool" parents 
picky about IDs, yeah, because peo-
could let little Joey host a kegger in 
ple are always trying to use fakes, or 
the garage. Now, if Mom and Pop 
use no ID at all. We look at them, 
"knowingly permit(s) any minor to 
and if they don't look old enough, 
possess alcoholic liquor," they face 
we ask for ID. We never had prob-
up to five hundred dollars in fines 
lems," he says carefully, opening a 
and the possibility of a year in jail. 

ccYou can now be held respon..: 
sible if you don't take reasonable 
efforts to prevent minors from con-
suming alcohol at your party," says 
Lieutenant Michael Patten of the 
. 
Yale Police. His definition of "rea-
sonable efforts" 
''telling people 
to leave if they're drinking you 
can stay but the alcohol can't" is, 
at best, hazy. "It's all new stuff so 
things are going to be fleshed out 
as they go along," he admits. The 
process of ''fleshing things out" has 
been confusing for authority fig-
fresh case of wine. "However, the 
week before the new law took effect 
there was a police sting operation. 
The store was caught selling alco-
hol to minors, along with fourteen 
stores in neighboring towns. Col-
lege Wine had to pay a $750.00 fine 
and close for three days. 

Sting operations, in which offi-
c.ers let a suspect's unlawful actions 
progress in order to gather evidence 
of wrongdoing before a police 
raid, are not a new phenomenon 
in New Haven, and College Wine 
and Liquor has endured its share in 
years past. Still, the assistant man-
ager insists that the police have been 
"harsher" in recent weeks, and that 
the sting operation happened un-
usually early in the school year. 

"This was the first time we've actu-
ally gotten into trouble," he says. 
"It's different." 

Spiro Pi at, the owner of Broad-
way Liquor, is less nervous. The 
store, located less prominently than 
College Wine on the outskirts of 
Yale's campus, .is not even on the 
radar of most freshmen. Broadway 
Liquor attracts travel-fatigued busi-
nessmen from the nearby Marriott, 
workers from stores on Whalley 
Avenue around the corne~ and a 
consistent clientele who are, ac-


--- Page 27 ---

cording to its owner, cc just around." 
It's evident that his store caters to-a 
more adult crowd: a collage of near-
ly nude ladies adorns the counter-
top, as do two scrawled signs that 
note: "21 +over no ID!!! No liquor ... 
no exceptions. 21 + over!!" Though 
his shelves are stocked with aged 
tequila and Puerto Rican rum, one 
thing is conspicuously absent from 
Broadway . Liquor: the effects of 
the new underage drinking law. As 
of mid-October, Piat was unaware 
that there had been a change. It goes 
to show, perhaps, how Yale-centric 
the crackdown has been. Around 
the corner from Payne Whitney 
Gym but past the main Broadway 
thoroughfare, the store is just far 
enough to remain untouched by the 
intensified enforcement. 

Fraternity Row does not enjoy 
the same lack of scrutiny. Students 
who live and party in houses on 
High Street and Lynwood Place 
are well-versed in the intricacies 
of the alcohol law. Although most 
frats are formally recognized by the 
University, their off-campus loca-
tions place them under the jurisdic-
tion of the New Haven police. As 
a fulcrum of Yale's underage social 
life, the frats have had to make some 
serious adjustments. 

In addition to tracking down 
kegs and cranberry juice, Solo cups 
and playlists, Sigma Alpha Epsi-
Ion president David Kemp and his 
brothers now have other details 
to attend to: complying with the 
new law and worrying about the 
increased police · presence in and 
around Yale. Though Kemp claims 
that the law has sparked only a "re-
iteration of our policies of the past," 
party-hopping Yalies lament what 
they perceive to be a sea-change in 
the partying environment. Most no-
ticeable is the diminished frequency · 
of "SAE Late Night," a weekly par-
ty ritual that has, for many students, 
defined Thursday nights at Yale. 

Kemp, however, insists that 
his fraternity is simply being more 
careful. "We've reinforced our risk 
management policy," he explains. 
Frat brothers now check IDs at the 
door and mark the hands of under-
age students, who won't be served 
alcohol. "We also provide alternate 
beverages, food if someone needs it, 
and we don't serve visibly intoxi-
cated people," Kemp says. "The 
New Haven police want more sub-
dued affairs. They're serious about 
enforcing the law, so we have to lis-
ten to them." 

Despite the void in many stu-
dents' Thursday night social sched-
ules, Kemp is not worried that qual-
ity of life will worsen in the long 
run. "In the end, ! ~think the Yale 
experience is still going to be pretty 
similar," he says. But at this point, it 
is hard to tell. 

Lieutenant Patten also down-
plays the impact of the change. He 
claims that his department has al-
ways been strict, " ... issu[ing] in-
fractions for public drinking in the 
past on a fairly regular basis." He 
adds, "this new law doesn't make 
any differentiation." But judging 
from students' anecdotes, the rate 
at which IDs have been confiscated 
and parties have beeu broken up in-
dicates other wise. 

n an e-mail with the subject 
line ccN o More Mr. Nice Guy," 
Ezra Stiles College Master Stuart 
Schwartz explained that, in light 
of "the amount of partying in the 
college 
last 
weekend 
unregis-
tered 
and the apparent violations 
of the college and state laws and 
regulations I am forced to bring 
the period of <transition' to a close." 
After advising Stilesians to regis-
ter parties with more than fifteen 
guests, Master Schwartz added an 
ominous warning: "Those who reg-
ister their events will have the privi-
lege of a warning from the master or 
dean prior to any call to the police. 
Those who do not register will not 
be so warned." His closing remark-
ccHave fun, use your heads" 
is em-
blematic of the mixed message the 
University is sending to students. 
The restrictions are ambiguous, but 



**Title: The New Alcohol Law at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
the enforcement is harsh, and the 
school cares less about students' 
drinking habits than about keeping 
their criminal records clean. 

In years past, the rules that 
undergraduates actually obeyed 
were largely unspoken: Try to keep 
parties contained; turn the music 
down as the clock creeps closer to 
dawn; clean up; don't break other 
laws. However, with the exception 
of a few fastidious students, parties 
tended to stay unregistered 
and 
hosts tended to slip by unscathed. 
As long as students were safe and 
healthy, the Masters seemed satis-
fied, and their liability under the 
old laws was limited. 

The new law, however, affects 
not only students, but their Mas-
ters who· are now at personal risk. 
"Our Master has taken the provi-
sion of the law that states that 'the 
person in charge of the domain will 
bear . responsibility' to mean that 
that person is him," says a Yale ju-
. 
nior, who requested anonymity. Still, 
when he and his suitemates threw a 
party this year, the recent vigilance 
scarcely crossed their minds. Ten 
minutes before guests were slated 
to arrive, they received · a personal 
phone call from the Master remind-
ing them of the new law. 

"[Our Master] said, 'Don't let 
people go outside with cups, just 
keep people inside of the entrance-
way."' They responded by ·put-
ting up signs that read, 'No booze 
outside. Thanks' and 'Please throw 
your cups out before leaving.' There 
were no problems. "Though we 
were initially kind of worried about 
the police showing up, we kind of 
forgot about it as soon as the party 
started," they explained. 

The boys are already plan-
ning another party. "This law 
won't change my social life," one 
of them said. "Our next party is 
soon ... Stop by.'' _ -
28 
His attitude reflects many stu-
dents' determination to not let com-
plex legalities affect their routines. 
This goes for Yale policies as well, 
which have resurfaced with renewed 
' 
purpose in response to the law. A 
University procedure called "rus-
tication" 
a word that means little 
to most students 
has always been 
included in the Yale College man-
ual of UndergradU:ate Regulations. 

Rustication is, as the manual out-
lines, a response io "violation of the 
dormitory regulations ... requir[ing] 
the student in question to live off 
- campus, either for a specified pe-
riod or permanently. This penalty is 
called 'rustication.' Rusticated stu-
dents may be denied access to the 
college itself and to its facilities." 

It is not a . term that regularly 
surfaces in conversations over a 
keg. "What the hell is rustication?" 
asks a senior, who has never heard · 
the term, and does not know that it 
could threaten her. 

o one suite of sophomore boys, 
. this highfalutin word has ac-
quired new relevance. In discuss-
ing their plight, the boys are chatty 
and affable; they crack half-hearted 
jokes about the seriousness of their 
predicament and accuse one anoth-
er of being the most "moronic" of 
the group. Yet the gravity of their 
situation is clear: They insist on re-
maining anonymous in this article 
because they are in serious trou-
ble, and the threat of "rustication" 
looms too close for comfort. 

The weekend of October 1sT 
seemed like a fine time to host a 
. party. The weather was crisp but 
not chilly, midterm hysteria had 
not yet descended, and the boys 
were eager to continue a tradition of 
hosting consistently successful par-
ties. As always, the boys purchased 
gallons of low-quality alcohol, set 
a time, spread the word, and never 
. . 
£. i'" 
·:t 
"•:_-:,•. 
' . 
.-
.• 
' (:"' .. 
.} 
-:-. .. ·._ 
THE NEW jOURNAL 
' .· 


October 2006 
thought twice about registering. 
They also didn't think twice 
about the date their party was to · 
be held: the very night when the 
new alcohol law would come into 
effect. They admit it was a poor 
decision, but partially blame it on 
the lack of information. One suite 
member thought the alcohol law 
was changing on October 4th. An-
other reasoned, ''We weren't al-
lowed to drink [alcohol] anyway, 
so I didn't think the law change 
mattered. It was already an 'illegal' 
party in its totality." 

But their college Master, they 
claim indignantly, did little to elu-
cidate the new policies. At a college-
. wide meeting early in the semes-
ter, discussion of the new law was 
" .. .like a joke,'' according to one of 
the boys. "Everyone was laughing 
because basically 75o/o of the col-
lege is underage anyway. It was 
like, 'Oh, we can still drink in our 
rooms."' He chuckles sardonically. 
"It didn't really seem like anything 
was going to change." 

On the night of the party, it be-
came painfully evident that things 
had changed. Approximately one 
hundred and fifty people showed 
up, a number so large that the party 
spilled into the courtyard. Nearly 
everyone carried a red cup, laugh-
ing, yelling, flirting, drinking. 

By 11:00 p.m., four New Ha-
ven not Yale 
police officers had 
entered the college courtyard and 
were observing the scene, checking 
their watches. The hosts at last re-
membered the significance of that 
particular night, panicked momen-
tarily, then got on with the party. 
"If anything, the pace of the party 
sped up once the cops arrived," 
one host recalls wistfully. "It was 
like when the police stand outside 
of a fraternity house 
no one cares, 
no one stops." 

Obviously intoxicated but still 
lucid enough to remember the sig-
nificance of October 1 sr, one guest 
started a raucous countdown to 
midnight. Guests spilled beer on 
their shirts as they drank as quickly 
as possible, desperate to beat the 
deadline. It was a decidedly less sa-
vory Cinderella story, with guests 
evading the New Haven police rath-
er than Prince Charming. 

The 
college Dean material-
ized shortly, and began negotiating 
with the irate officers. By 11:45, the 
Dean was ordering students to toss 
cups, gather belongings, and get out. 
. By midnight it was all over for ev-
eryone, that is, except the hosts. 

The next morning, the boys 
awoke to two unpleasant reminders 
of the previous night: hangovers, and 
an email from the Dean and Master 
of their college calling for an imme-
diate conference. The boys were told 
that if they held another party, they 
would either be rusticated, or sent 
to the Executive Committee, who 
would review their status as Yale stu-
dents. One host describes the meet-
ing as "one of the worst experiences 
of my life." Harsh consequences for 
"just another party.'' 

A week later, the fallout had 
partially settled. "We are being 
made an example," one of the 
boys grumbles. "I think people are 
scared about what's going to hap-
pen. No parties have been thrown 
since the law has happened ... No 
one wants to be the scapegoat.'' 

Though they were spared rus-
tication, the change in the law has, 
they say, slammed the door on ''a 
way of life.'' 

or freshmen struggling to nego-
tiate a new social scene, being 
thrust into a shifting climate . has 
been doubly awkward. Freshman 
Counselors, like Jus tin Ash of Ezra 
Stiles College, have had to rise to 
the challenge of helping first-years 
29 

et some traditions have already 
stopped. Blissful ignorance ends 
at the kelly green doors to Toad's 
Place, the host of the 21 and over 
Saturday night dance parties that 
have long characterized Yale night-
life. The saying goes "All roads 
lead to Toad's," and every Saturday 
flocks of inebriated Yalies gravitate 
towards the club like moths to a 
flarne. It was once infamously easy 
to enter: Most undergraduates be-
30 
-
lieved that any fake ID that vaguely 
resembled its bearer would pass. 

But in the past few years, Toad's 
has been raided more frequently 
and underage admits have been 
ejected and even fined by the local 
police. Rumors of raids reached a 
frenzy in the days leading up to the 
alcohol law's implementation. Un-
der the reign of P.A. 06-112, all IDs 
are scrutinized. Bouncers often re-
quest multiple forms to ensure that 
names and birthdates match. In 
the line, whispers circulate debat-
ing the harshness of that evening's 
bouncer. Has he taken any IDs? 
Is he asking for multiples? Many 
desert the line and head next door 
to Yorkside Pizza. For those who 
get in, it is hard to miss the sign an-
nouncing: "Toad's place reserves the 
right to physically remove hostile 
persons from the premises." 

Fifty feet from that sign on an 
October night, Junior Angel Hert-
slet, along with her friend Denise, 
shivered together on the sidewalk 
bordering Toad's Place, with no 
intention of entering. The girls 
were waiting for a friend who was 
busy grinding and bopping on the 
dance floor inside. Amidst a parade 
of passing characters, from rowdy 
members of the men's lacrosse team 
to fatigued truck drivers, the girls 
chatted quietly, trying to pass the 
time. Their conversation was sud-
denly interrupted, however, when a 
Toad's bouncer approached. 

"He came up to [Denise] and I 
and said, 'Leave this street right now, 
just leave,"' Hertslet recalls. At 5'6", 
with honey-blonde hair, kind eyes, 
and soft features, Hertslet's pres-
ence is hardly threatening. So why 
was he yelling at her? Surprised by 
the seriousness of his voice, the girls 
left quickly and headed back toward 
their dorm. However, the guilt of 
abandoning their friend was strong: 
Leave no girl behind, even if it's on 
the dance floor at Toad's. 

In the twenty minutes they'd 
been gone, however, the situation 
at the nightclub had taken a turn for 
the worse. "When we came back, 
our friend was coming out of Toad's 
" 
en we came 
was comzng out o 
Toa 's wit a 
man; says 
erts-
e was 



**Title: Underage Drinking: A New Era at Yale**
**Author: Lauren Harrison**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
with a policeman/' says Hertslet, 
upset. "She was hap.dcuffed." 
Another policeman stationed 
nearby tried to calm the frightened 
girls, but to no avail. "We asked 
the policeman about the new Con-
necticut drinking law and he said 
he wasn't even aware of it. He 
didn't even know what we were 
talking about." 

Nor, evidently, did Jim Bay, 
the Operations Manager of Toad's 
Place. Though revelers at Toad's 
that Saturday night insist that po-
lice swarmed the area, Jim has a dif-
ferent account. 
''I heard some rumor of some 
law change Saturday night, but 
I wasn't informed about it," he 
mumbled distractedly while man-
ning the club's entrance one recent 
Thursday evening. "I never got any 
sort of written notice that things 
had 
changed 
state-wide." 
He 
paused to reflect for a minute, then 
continued. "You know, I actually 
was under the impression that [the 
law] was just a Yale thing; I didn't 
realize it was a state-wide change. 
But hey, I'm kind of busy . right 
now," he said, gesturing at the long 
line outside the door. Clearly, busi-
ness hadn't suffered. 

The full impact of the new law 
on Yale is not yet clear. Precedents 
have not been set and compromises 
have not yet been reached. Several 
Yalies have been made into examples, 
but whether the Administration 
will continue to seek scapegoats re-
mains to be seen. If anything, the 
new law tests the audacity of stu-
dents. Sigma Phi Epsilon recently 
implemented an 
invitation-<:>nly 
policy for its parties. Pierson Col-
lege turned its "Tuesday Night 
Club," once a University-wide par-
ty, into a seniors-only event. Toad's 
Place and College Wine and Liquor 
will continue checking IDs. They 
don't want to risk the consequences 
of letting anything slide, especially 
with policemen watching from . 
the wings. 

The new law's most signifi-
cant effect cannot be measured in 
the number of arrests or the sever-
ity of fines. P.A. 06-112 has most 
drastically changed the perception 
of underage drinking. Though the 
illegal act has always been taboo, 
students once shared party stories 
and announced imminent trips to 
the liquor store without a second 
thought. No one worried about 
concealing the flasks they brought 
to the Halloween concert, and 
"open containers" once referred to 
yesterday's leftovers, not a breach 
of the law. "Rustication" sounded 
more like an obscure reference to 
animal husbandry than a feared 
punishment. 

But the reluctance of both stu-
dents and adults to discuss the pres-
ent state of affairs encapsulates the 
tension and confusion surrounding 
the new law. One thing is certain: 
Students are uneasy. And until the 
challenges it poses to Yalies are 
elucidated, the University's social 
scene will proceed cautiously as it 
seeks to redefine itself in the eyes 
of next year's class of 2011, which 
won't turn 21 until2010. 
Lauren Harrison, a Sophomore in 
Ezra Stiles College, is Circulations 
& Subscriptions Manager ofTNJ. 




**What's marking the pavement?**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Flip- ops are so ubiquitous that 
they're unnoticeable. Standard 
and pervasive, they are nearly as 
obvious as eet themselves.

"To find out what sort of person a man is at Yale, 
you look at his shoes," wrote Eli D.H. Marshman 
in a 1942 sketch of his classmates. "This University 
has been going for 241 years and it has found this 
to be true, and when Yale takes a stand on the mat-
ter of shoes as an indication of eligibility, Yale is 
right there is nothing more important." 

Marshman, who graduated in 1945 and won an 
Academy Award for the screenplay of Sunset Bou-
levard in 1950, used shoes to size up a man. Black 
buckskins? An inferior miscreant. White with plain 
toes and thick red rubber soles? Clearly destined 
for greatness. White with hard soles and perfora-
tions? "Cross to the other side of York street In 
the Eli caste system, he is· something akin to un-
touchable," answers Marshman. To understand the 
Yale man, Marshman peered into his sole. 

Today, Yale students reserve their suede Nu-
bucks and shiny buckskins for formal events. On 
an average Tuesday evening, during an average 
dinner rush at Commons Dining Hall, an average 
of one in three students entered wearing flip-flops. 
From 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. on October 10th, 31.8% or 
146 o£459 diners sported flip-flops. Others wore 
flats, sneakers, or sandals. One girl donned knee-
high boots with four-inch heels. A baby entered 
in socks. 

That infallible barometer of student interests, 
thefacebook.com, documents 328 groups with 
the word "flip-flop" in their titles. Eighteen Yale 
students listed "flip-flops,, in their profiles under 
"Interests.,, 

Between April 1, 2005 and October 10, 2006, 
Paul Richards, a shoe store on the corner of York 
and Elm, sold 315 pairs of flip-flops 
at $43.95 each. At any given time, 
the shop carries about 14 styles of 
flip-flops; this year, madras beat 
out black-and-white polka dots as 
the top seller. At Thorn Brown, a 
shoe store on Broadway, salesgirl 
April Mercure says the summer 
sandals are "still selling,, even this 
late into fall. Down the block, the 
Yale Bookstore stocks twelve differ-
ent styles, including four with Yale 
motifs. Every one of Broadway,s 
purveyors of chic J.Crew, Wish-
list, and Urban Outfitters 
sells the -
sandals to campus devotees. 

Take Kevin . Davis, who has 
16 pairs in his dorm room and ten 
more .at home, or Lillian Lwamugi-
ra, who has eight pairs at Yale. And 
then there,s Lauren Taylor, who,s 
been known to wear them in the 
snow. "And in the rain they just 
make more sense than any other 
shoes/, she argues. 

Today, it is an understatement 
to acknowledge that flip-flops are 
a Yale wardrobe staple, but thirty 
years ago, the situation was, well, 
flip-flopped. Average number of 
students wearing flip-flops in the 
1976 Yale yearbook: zero.· Flip-
flops are so ubiquitous that they,re 
unnoticeable. Standard and perva-
sive, they are nearly as obvious as 
feet themselves. 

Modeled after Japanese Zori, a 
sandal woven of straw or plant fiber, 
flip-flops probably first appeared 
as rubber imita-tions sold in drug 
stores after World War II. Until the 
1990s, they were relegated to beach-
es, gyms, and showers. 

Meghan 
Cleary, author of "The Perfect Fit: 
What Your Shoes Say About You, 
and a recognized shoe guru who 
blogs about shoes at missmeghan. 
com, has an expert opinion on when 
the fashion flip-flop bonanza began. 
"It was the summer of 1998... It 
was that summer that some of the 
fashionista girls starting buying the 
flip-flops in Chinatown and wear-
ing them with jeans with skirts and 
dresses all over the East Village,,, she 
notes. Stores like Pearl River Mart 
acquired cult status among New 
York trendsetters, who incorporat-
ed flip-flops into their wardrobes in 
droves. In Rio and Paris, chicettes 
would never pair flip-flops with 
couture. But the flip-flop was never 
intended to grace a runway. It is 
rooted in traditions of convenience 
and dirt. Not surprisingly, the style 
became trendy at colleges, where 
dirt is a problem and convenience is 
an objective. 

Flip-flops are cool, effortless, af-
fordable fashion. People try hard to 
look like they're not trying, to hide 
their intense scrutiny of the world 
around them in a veil of breezy 
nonchalance. But no dress choice is 
without meaning. We are surround-
ed by signifiers of our own making. 
Everything is connotative . 

s Roland Barthes admits in 
'ccBlue is in Fashion This Year,: 
A Note on Research into Signifying 
Units in Fashion Clothing,, cloth-
ing may not carry meaning in the 
same way that language does, "but 
I am right at least to apply a lin.: 
guistic method of analysis to it., 

In this spirit, in Yale,s spirit, it is a 
reasonable assumption that the flip-
flops that traipse on our collegiate 
stomping grounds are provocative, 
self-referential signifiers. 

At Yale, the flip-flop has a 
grammatica function that footwear 
lacks at other colleges: the Y~·sllape.­
created by the straps that stretch out 
from between the big and pointer 
toes. The shoe inscribes feet with 
the University's alphabetical sig-
nifier, even as the shoe serves as a 
subtle rebellion against an old-boy 
Yale of nubucks and buckskins. We 
unconsciously mark ourselves with 
it. The ego, in search of meaning, 
necessarily searches for signs, un-


**CALLING ALL WRITERS ...**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 34**

CALLING ALL WRITERS ...


Come armed.with 
story ideas to The. 
New ournal's next 
111eeting on Monday, 
October 23. 
Common Room 
7 p.m. sharp


Reading and Conversation 
7:30p.m., Thursday, November 2, 2006 
· ·Branford College Common Room 

Staff Writer The New Yorker 
Author of 27 books including 
Uncommon Carriers 
Annals of the Former World 
Coming into the Country 
Encounters with the Archdruid 
The Pine Barrens 
John Cristophe Schlesinger Visiting Writer at Yale 



**Title: Arbor Equos Flip-Flop (After Saussure.)**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
controllably reading the world as if
it were a text and projecting it upon-
us: in this case, through fashion.
The flip-flop is a Y in the alphabet
of the world, a literal text marking
the pavement.
ix decades after Marshman used
footwear to delineate Yale's so-
cial strata, the rules that govern
Yale fashion · are . decidedly more
liberal. Going to cla_ss is no longer
a coat and tie affair: few occasions-
are. And while fashion today is still
hierarchical, flip-flops function as
the great equalizer. Unpracticed at
dressing up, Yalies wear flip-flops
to dress down.

Flip-flops are a site of class
consciousness. For Yale students,
an expens1ve pa1r 1s not supenor to
its less pricey counterpart. In fact
at $14, Havaianas are a cheap fash-
ion fix. Those who own expensive
Rainbows also own flip-flops from
Wal-Mart and Old Navy. Fashioni-
stas who own Siegerson Morrison
kitten heel flip-flops
whose debut
guru Meghan Clearly says marked
the «height of the flip-flop madness
of the 'fashion' scene"
treat them
no better than a pair from Target.
These flip-flops are simply flip-
flops: emblems of practicality, ease,
and comfort. They are the essence
of footwear, the barest essentials of
support, protection, and city sur-
vival. At Yale, flip-flops symbolize
the liberalization of the Eli caste
system Marshman parodied. They
simultaneously manage to be chic
and to oppose the bourgeois ele-
ments of fashion.
In that sense, they are an objec~
of rebellion. Northwestern Uni-
versity's championship women's
lacrosse team became daughters
of the revolution on July 19, 2005
when some members of the clan
arrived for a meet-and-greet with
President Bush at the White House
October 2006
And while ashion
wearing flip-flops. The flop faux pas
was front-page news, riling cultural
critics to encapsulate~ the incident
as emblematic of the degeneration
of fashion responsibility. The jux-
taposition of Bush's conservatism
and the naked toes of the female
athletes was a public expression of
the everyday rebellion played out
at Yale, where flip-flops flop where
W once treaded the courtyards in
loafers.

Those who decry the shoe as
socially unacceptable also argue
against its practicality. "They are
bad for your feet," says Cleary.
«The way you see them worn ... is
really bad. That's the big deception
of the flip-flop." Schlepping around
in flip-flops leaves dust, road resi-
due, and the day's dregs trapped in
· foot cradles. Wearers walk home
with blackened feet and, sometimes,
sore ankles. For their winter fans,
there's road salt and frostbite. Po-
diatrists have rallied against them.
That the flip...:flop ·is simultane-
ously unacceptable in formal soci-
ety and pervasive in the collegiate
environment that will · ostensibly
·feed into that strata positions them
in the wardrobes of becoming. We
don't wear flip-flops to job inter-
views, which will determine our fu-
ture, but to class, as if it won't. To
make such a distinction is to admit
that this place is only a temporary
side trip, a diversion where it's cool
to look good but uncool to care that
you do.
-
Marshman wrote that shoes are
a "real index" of men. Following
his lead, we should take a moment
to ponder why we wear the shoes
we do. Trends in footwear are not
incidental but discursive of the peo-
ple we are. Like what we call them,
they represent a shift, a becoming,
a transition that occurs somewhere
between a flip and a flop.
Romy Drucker, a Senior in Dav-
enport College, is the Publisher of
TNJ.


**Title: Suburbia on the Green**
**Author: Benny Sachs**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

The ghosts of Chapel Street Mall
0
verlooking the New
Haven Green at 900
Chapel Street · stands
a colossal, modern-
ist building. Its imposing frame of
glass and steel blocks out the rays
of the midday sun as workers from
local office buildings scurry to and
fro under its shaded arcade. In the
lobby stands Brian Keefe. He is a
sales representative for Connecti-
cut Realty Partners, which leases
downtown properties, including the
apartments in this forty thousand
square foot building.

"This is where the most elite
people in New Haven live," Keefe
says, standing in the "Residence
Court," which formerly served
as the interior plaza of the Chapel
Square Mall. This unconventional
atrium features streetlamps and park
benches, bicycle racks and trash
cans, hammocks and gas grills, pic-
nic tables and umbrellas that have
never been subjected to rain.

The lobby feels like a ghost
town, as if all the shoppers had fled
an impending apocalypse. Blank bay
windows stare out at planters that
were once fountains, which divide
the central space into two parallel
paths. Overhead walkways cast dark
shadows. Two colors of vinyl siding
and red brick line the interior walls,
producing a garish, uneven effect. A
plastic Corinthian column supports
a four-sided clock, the baffling cen-
terpiece of this absurd courtyard.

Like the bodies of early New Haven
residents interred under the Green
outside, the old fountains and store-
fronts of the mall are buried under
cheap mulch and synthetic masonry.
A sanitized simulacrum of a bustling
downtown shopping street has been
transformed into a sanitized simu-
lacrum of suburban yard, street,
and park.

But upon entering a former
storefront, one finds not a cheery
suburban living room but a long
hallway leading into a sterile, one-
bedroom unit. It could be found
in any motel--except that some of
the windows look directly into the
barren courtyard, a view that gives
prospective tenants a unique oppor-
tunity to window shop.

This toy suburb is the result
of redevelopment at a site that has
been an embarrassment to down-
town New Haven for decades. The
project started in 1965 as an urban
renewal scheme to revive an eco-
nomically troubled downtown by
encouraging suburban shoppers to
return to the center of the city. But
the mall failed, haunted from the be-
ginning by the assumption that sub-
The lobby feels
like a ghost
town, as if all the
shoppers had fled
an impending
apocalypse.


urban forms would succeed in an
urban context. After countless re-
development schemes based on this
suburbia-on-the-green
paradigm
fell flat, Lubert Adler Real Estate
Funds and their local partner, David
Nyberg, had the novel idea of turn-
ing the Chapel Square Mall inside
out, placing the retail space on the
exterior and redesigning the interior
stores as residential space.

Still, something of the suburban
dream of house and yard lingers in
the heart of the mall-gone-apart-
ment-complex, in its exposed beams
and fountains of mulch, in its second
story porticos and bay windows.

Who constitutes this "New Ha-
ven elite," this landed gentry living
parallel to the public Green? Rents
are upwards of $950 for a one bed-
room unit or $1200 for a two bed-
room. The apartment's website
appeals to tenants' desire to have
it both ways: to have access to a
bustling metropolis while maintain-
ing a comfortable suburban insula-
tion. "Who thought you could ex-
perience the peaceful sanctuary of
a private green space literally feet
from bustling Chapel Street?" the
website asks.

The promoters promise the im-
possible: the protected isolation of a
house and yard, or at least the fac-
simile of one, within the hustle and
bustle of a downtown lifestyle. But
the 24-hour security service, like
those protecting suburban gated
communities, reflects a certain fear
of the lower class residents who live
nearby. Even invited guests must be
led past the guard's desk.

Because of a perceived growth
in the desire for an urban lifestyle
among young professionals and
empty-nesters alike, "downtown
residential"· has become the latest
buzzword in development. Wheth-
er the "Residence Court" will serve
as the new backyard for this market
is dubious. At the end of the tour
he gives prospective tenants, Keefe
insists that available units are sure
to go fast. The half-empty list of 25
doorbells suggests otherwise. Cha-
pel Square still feels like a ghost
town which is strange for a place
that never attracted living souls to
begin with.
Benny Sachs is a Sophomore in Ezra
Stiles College.



**Title: Daria Vander Veer chose your classes for you.**
**Author: Mitch Reich**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
For a brief moment each August, Daria Vander Veer is the most powerful person at Yale University. Armed with only a yellow pencil and a spiral notebook, the tall strawberry-blonde single-handedly begins to draw up the futures of Yale students. Unlike Shelly Kagan, she does not have the power to extinguish their intellectual pretensions, and she can't smother their dreams of neurosurgeonhood like the professors of MCDB 120. But she can, and does, send some of them halfway up Science Hill at 9:30 every morning for a French seminar.

ccI've often jokingly thought that I would give President Levin a call, and say to him, 'I just want to be sure you realize that, for the first two weeks of classes, I'm the most important administrator at Yale, not you, sir."' Vander Veer adds, with a note of irony, "I'm certainly the most popular."

As the local czarina of classrooms, she is not exaggerating. It's her job to assign classrooms to classes, a seemingly minor decision that has a huge impact on the popularity of courses and the happiness of students not to mention the egos of professors. Harold Bloom refuses to teach in any room other than a sunlit second floor seminar room number 208-in the centrally located William L. Harkness Hall.

The czarina's semester-altering decisions elicit more raw anger than most of her peers would ever dream of.

At Harvard, Vander Veer's counterpart oversees only a fraction of the University's classrooms; he claims that he cannot imagine doing his job without hiring an assistant for the first month of each semester. Here at Yale, however, with the exception of a few dozen rooms that are directly administered by departments, Vander Veer has toiled alone under the title of Associate Registrar since January of 2005 to place every course offered by the College and the Graduate School for Arts and Sciences into its semester-long home.

Her methodology is a mix of the archaic and the haphazard. After departments complete their proposals and select their course times in June, the registrar's office spends more than a month proofreading course descriptions, removing overlaps, and ensuring that professors are not slotted for two classes simultaneously.

In August, Vander Veer takes the data and assigns the rooms for several hundred courses by hand. Her criteria are so numerous, she says, that scheduling software-which does exist-could not possibly take them all into account. She considers past enrollment, potential popularity, peculiar needs ("can you get me a room where students can paint on the tables?"), proximity to department offices and, last but not least, convenience for students (as an undergrad who graduated in 1987, she should know). While she keeps tabs on all these requirements, Vander Veer must reshuffle course locations to match shopping period's shifting enrollment numbers.

The results are displeasing for many and chaotic for most. Those who dream of a modern seminar room in Linsley-Chittenden may find themselves exiled to the dank bowels of Becton Labs. At the beginning of shopping period, instructors complain en masse that their classrooms are woefully undersized, dimly lit, wholly inconvenient, a travesty of modern architectural design. They clamor to be moved. Mark Ennis, the Anthropology Department administrator who relays the qualms of his professors to Vander Veer, acts as a peacekeeper. "A lot of panic sets in with the professors," he says.

Yale professors are not the sort to be undone by a disagreeable room assignment, and some are not particularly patient. Professor Steven Brill, whose journalism course this semester is at 10:30 a.m., complained about his small seminar room. "Apparently there's some rule at Yale that you can't teach seminars from 10:30 to 12:30 in the morning," he says. Negotiating the switch with Vander Veer "wasn't pleasant," he recalled. "She was incredibly supercilious and rude to the person who works in my office."

More sympathetic are the department registrars who have developed relationships with Vander Veer which they admit can't hurt their chances of getting the desired room swaps. "She does everything she can to make us happy within her power," says Patricia Slatter, the Assistant to the Philosophy Department chair. "It's not an ideal situation." Registrar of the English Department Ruben Roman sympathizes: "She must have a very thick skin."

Vander Veer articulates the problem succinctly. "When you go to a hotel," she says, "and they give you a room, and you don't like your room, you can go back downstairs and say 'I don't like this room, give me another one.' And they give you another one. And I think sometimes they think I can do that. I wish I could, but they're sort of astounded when I say 'I actually don't have any rooms that are bigger than the one you have that are available.'"

Vander Veer faults a long-standing tradition which allows professors to choose teaching times. When they all cluster around a few desirable slots, Vander Veer can only scramble to clean up the mess. It is no coincidence that the professors teaching on Tuesdays at 1:30, a time slot packed with seminars, are often those who complain about substandard seminar rooms. Vander Veer is, to paraphrase Vander Veer, simply the desk attendant at the world's least accommodating hotel.

Yet half a decade into the 21st century, Yale wants to have it all: a shopping period without pre-registration, professors free to choose whatever course times they want, and a single assistant registrar who assigns rooms to every course with a pencil and a notebook.

Vander Veer is hard pressed to explain the system. "It seems almost medieval that it's done this way," admits the desk clerk, the dictator, the unseen spirit guide who sends students trekking up Science Hill for French seminars. "Heaven forbid I came down with chicken pox in the first week of classes," she says.

How would anyone know where to go?

Mitch Reich is a Sophomore in Pierson College.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MAY l'l.NP, ~00~ . li\" El.fo\ (rtY. 
\T \S (0M£N1'£NT£NT {)AY AT 
J:4L£ C/11/YEHSITY. 
{ I 
• 
f;' EL.~ CITY. 
lT HAS TAl<EN A w~lL'E FoR .ME 11:> 
Fut.LV ADJUST To MY NEW POWtRS 
October 2006 
OSVAL OBSERVER) 
~IGH'T 
. :t) LIKE JI\Y f'll.1tiCOS) A~ G 
BUT 
CAN. U: Ptttt\'lNG, •• 
. ' 
:·: ~ .. 
Do NOT SEEM 11> )£ 
C.~"E- FIGHTING \N NA11JRE". 
"THIS tS T~E' DAY THAT 
L sr ~AN~FOilMED 
:C H A'./ !;" SEAR.<.. 
$\<\E$ IN VA\ N 
(OMISS\ONER 
SUPER.. 
·StN1 0~ 
SIGNAL. 
\NTO A_.. 
1~-tE 


**Page number(s): 44**

44 
LlKE MOST SUrP.HEROE'S.> :I HAV& FOUND . tT A CHAL..\...Ct~GE' 
REtONC\\.E MV NiW. Sl)(luS IJrt'H MY 0/./) SOCIAL LlFr. 
11) fROTECi 1'\VSELf ANO 0"11tn.S, rr lS OF .COURSE" OF "lJofE 
UT-"OST lMPoRTAtk£ "1J'A1 ":I: IV~ R.EVFAL ~V SECRET. 
VII\ uk .. ~
. 
"r'Y'I (I.. 
.sup~r 
&e.ni 
:' . ' 
. : .. 
$o"£ £X'mtr, -mr PR£SE)Ic£' OF OTtotE~ SVfE~ SENIOR$ 
(OPtN' Wrn-t 1).\£ SAl£ S~DE'NS \5 A Soufl..c.E OF R£'L\E"F. 
. \JE ~1 'TO 8L£ND IN WITH T~ir: 
foPUli<.E, BUT W£ [)(GlAN6'£" . 
GlAMc.ES AND 
:YPitC. Gat£1'\tfGS 
1kt 
~.....;..;.;_~=. 
· ·· · ·· · ··· ·· 
Yo • 
.· ... 
-
~ 
11 · ARtH-N!'I'\E'SlSJ WHO GoE"S gy 
'~/'#£ GRtJt/1' 11! 
/?EO.U/~£AEN"A" AF:FORDS ME LITTLE RES 1. 
fOR ALL \T.S EXClTE'Mt~~ 11-IOUG~) I'D· SF ~YING -IF :r. 
Dll>H,I ADMIT 1fiAT 8ENG A Sum $!NtGP.. HAS \iS DRAWS~ . 
.. 
.. .... 
WOrtK (lf ANY 
Sutf:"HE"RC MVST 
ft'G'MA1N 
ANo>~ YMouS . . 
-mas D£CEJo'6f~ 
I: \olll.l_ L~Vli 1J{E 
~Uf\ C.l"t"Y W llli 
L-1 I ra h\NFA*E 
¥/IlL Q\J\£TLY 80AR.t> A in.AIN 
Fott. S'"oJt\E' 6TJ.JE'tl ft\F'T"IWf>Ot..IS-
Jus,- W)fEJl.61 7 J)ON1T YET KNol,J •• 
THE NEw JoURNAL 


**Page number(s): 45**

/"\ 'f 'Dl <'LOt'\A \J\\ .. l 
~5' 
~EN\ . Ho~E' l ~ l"iE' MA \ L · · ~ . 
. :I: Do NOT ASl( FOR. 
YOuR. SYMPATHY •. 
BtSlt>ES) You A~E PROl3ASLY 1-lK~ 
ME 
lN . . MoRE WAYS ll-IAt-1 You R~A\....l'ZE" • 
~Ve~yotJ~ \rl\10 
PA.~SE'S JBrtOUGH tHIS PLAce- i 
\N~N"T> \G f>E Lll<E' A su~P.. 
, 
lN A SENse-. 
/'\ORE THAN _ 
' 
£N \T CIJ/f..E~ 11M'" To LEAVE"J VJE' A-.E" Au... IN ~AR(.H I 
OF A PLAC£ 1ltAT ~ 
~INK . NE'E'PS \JS • •.• . 
.• 
p, 
45 



**Title: Reps, Sets, Ex**
**Author: Patrick Hayden**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
fter two hours of diving prac-
tice, my hair is crusted and 
chlorinated, and I'm sporting 
undersized blue U mbro shorts that I 
have probably owned since the fourth 
grade. Feeling unattractive, I pull my 
white socks over my shins and head up 
the stairs to the Payne-Whitney fitness 
' 
center. In contrast to its modernized, 
sleek, and severe counterparts, Payne 
Whitney has remained defiantly tra-
ditional. Its faux-gothic architecture 
and its murals of American industrial-
ists like Rockefeller and Bush, hard at 
work during their days as Eli athletes, 
distinguishes the gym from its peers. 
Gold's Gym may·offer complementary 
protein shakes and grab-bag deals for 
Brazilian bikini waxes, but the Yale 
Gymnasium appears to strive for pure 
Ivy League accomplishment. 

But after passing through the aus-
tere corridors, I find myself in a sur-
prisingly standard gym. On the left, 
the ellipticals and tread-mills whirl 
into oblivion while the medieval tor-
ture devices we call "weight machines" 
fill the space to my right. Af-
ter a brief scan of the scene, I 
try to focus on my workout 
like the serious Ivy League 
athlete Payne Whitney Gym 
demands me to be. 

Yet after a while, my focus 
wavers. I can't help it, and nei-
ther could you. I~ the weight 
area, dozens of guys grunt, 
inflating their bodies to im-
press the girls, who are bus-
ily sweating to dwindle away 
pounds in the cardio zon~. 
First, I notice a young man 
pumping away with dumb 
bells beside me whose groans 
of anguish attract stares from 
around the gym. Brilliant 
white Nike low-tops high-
light his taut, bulging calves. 
He wears shiny red basket-
ball shorts and a wifebeater 
that strains against his body with each 
surge of blood to his massive lats. His 
brown hair is freshly . trimmed, gelled, 
and spiked, and he carefully pats it after 
finishing his set. He also adjusts the red 
and white Livestrong bracelets around 
his wrists 
this is a man who not only 
cares for AIDS patients and the pov-
erty-stricken, but he knows how to 
color-coordinate. Drops of perspira-
tion dot his forehead, but this gentle-
man is well-versed in the etiquette of 
attracting athletic harlots. He slowly 
lifts his shirt to wipe the sweat off his 
face and reveals completely by acci-
dent! 
a rippling six pack. The stench 
of salty sweat and sharp cologne may 
have addled my wits, but I swear I 
see this Narcissus mouth, "You're the 
bomb" to himself in the mirror. 

· I pull my eyes away from his sor-
did performance, wondering whom he 
could possibly hope · to attract, when 
I notice his perky female counterpart 
thrashing away on -an elliptical. She 
wears trendy blue mesh shoes, which 
conveniently match the spandex booty 
shorts designed to accent her tanned, 
waxed legs. She's got that ubiquitous 
Tiffany's heart necklace dangling in her 
cleavage, silver studs studding her ears, 
and dark brown hair so immaculately 
straightened that it reflects the gym's 
florescent light like a metallic shield. 
She repeatedly smacks her lips to 
ensure the lip gloss hasn't gone any-
where and removes her hands from 
the elliptical bars to check that her 
blue eye shadow hasn't migrated down 
cheeks more orange than tan. When 
all is ship-shape, she throws her head 
back and gazes intently at the glossy 
magazine propped before her. 

As they aggressively pout in the 
wall-to-wall mirror, I hope that these 
two manage to look away long enough 
to notice one another. They'll have a 
flirtaceous encounter in which he'll 
casually brush back his hair inci-
dentally flexing his bicep before hus-
kily asking her what she's doing later. 
Together, they'll saunter away, leaving 
this athletic cocktail lounge surging 
with hormones and the mating scents 
of Old Spice and Ralph Lau-
ren perfume. 

How stressful it must be 
for these performers, who 
tone their bodies to attract 
admirers outside the gym 
while also striving for optimal 
sexiness inside these hallowed 
walls. Behind its fa~ade, Payne 
Whitney is the scene of the 
same grotesque mating ntu-
als found at gyms across the 
country. While I watch over-
muscled studs chug powdery 
protein shakes and spandexed 
vixens writhe on vinyl mats, I 
realize how unexceptionally 
shallow Payne Whitney really 
is. I shake my head and return 
to my lonely workout. But 
wait-do my blue Umbros 
look way too small when I 
bend my legs like that? 



Growing New Haven's biotech industry and local economy 
Creating a vital downtown through Yale's community investment program 
Supporting New Haven public school education through partnerships 
Strengthening neighborhoods by helping Yale employees buy homes 

170 Whitney Avenue, New 
