Publication date: September 8, 1989
Volume: 22
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- None present


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About This Issue
NewsJournal
Between the Vines
Features
Classroom Talk - Matt Fleischer
Whose Right? - Ellen Katz
Philosophical Differences - David Greenberg
The Big Vote - Ruth Conniff
Afterthought
Leading the Way - Nina Glickson


**Title: A VALlE'S FRIEND**
**Author:  [No author listed]**
**Page number(s): 2**

**Title: Classroom Talk**
**Author: Matt Fleischer**
**Page number(s): 16**

A student leaves Yale to learn how to learn. Studying in an Israeli yeshiva, he thinlcs 
about how to bring together academic refkction and reaL-world experience. 


**Title: Whose Right?**
**Author: Ellen Katz**

In the wake of the Supreme Court's Webster decisicn, Connecticut legislators argue over 
the state's nght to promote family values versus individuals' right to privacy. The upshot: 
new restrictions on abortion. 


**Title: Philosophical Differences**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 24**

As faculty jump ship, Yale's philosophy department is struggling to overcome itr 
reputaticn for infighting, and downplaying old ideological rifts. 


**Title: The Big Vote**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 28**

This Tuesday, September 12, New Haven citizens-including 3,000 newry registered 
voters-will choose a new mayor. One candidate promises racial and ethnic inclusicn, 
while the other says he will overhaul the ci9J's bureaucracy. 


**Title: Leading the Way**
**Author: Nina Glickson**
**Page number(s): 44**

YA LE 
'/j \'5 
-+ N 
Nina Glickson, A YA Associate Director of Programs, looks back 20 years to the days 
when women were a new phenomenon at Yale, and it was a struggle just to find a 
bathroom.



**Title: FOOT-LONG SUB OR SMALL SODA**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~-.. 
FOOT-LONG I 
SUB OR 
I 
SAUD 
I MUST BUY 
MUST BUY 
I SMALL SODA Jk:ft&J./lf~ SMALL SODA I 
11
11 BROADWAY .... !ffi1Wf~9 1179 CHAPEL I 
NEW HAVEN ~:.~~!\'1'!!~ NEW HAVEN I 
~-------------------~ 


**Title: A Student's Journey: Xin**
**Author: Andrea Assarat**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
completing his bachelors degree, he 
plans to study law. "We need the 
help-just like laws to protect people 
... the human being's rights," Xin 
said. "They can arrest you ... without 
any crime because you have said 
something 
not 
satisfied 
by 
the 
government. They can arrest you and 
even cut ofT your whole life." 


In the United States, Xin is trying 
hard to reconcile his sense of public 
responsibility with his private life. "I am 
peaceful. I like making friends. I'm not 
active 
in 
police 
things, 
but this 
movement is about human rights-the 
basic human rights even to be alive, so 
we must fight." Xin attends numerous 
pro-democracy meetings and hopes to 
set up some connection with his friends 
back home, but he has also eased into a 
more private and secure existence 
away from all the media attention. 


While Xin is excited to learn about 
American culture 
by living and 
studying with students at Yale, he 
emphasizes the importance of re-
taining his own cultural identity: "I 
think it is not worthy to throw [away] 
your past to get anc;>ther past. I think 
the better way is you keep your past 
. . . then you can learn from each 
other." To prove his point, Xin quotes 
a Chinese idiom: "Han Tung Xie 
Pu- Imitating the Han Tung people 
in walking." He opens his book of 
Chinese idioms and reads, in a voice 
made hoarse by gas bombs: "A young 
man . . . hearing that people in Han 
Tung . . . walked most gracefully, 
crossed the mountains and rivers to get 
there to learn their walk. He walked 
behind the Han Tung people acting 
the ape . . . but instead of being 
successful even forgot how he had 
walked before. Subsequently, on his 
journey back, he could only crawl all 
the way. Used to describe a person 
who in imitating others loses his own 
originality." 


When contemplating his future, Xin 
is pragmatic. "The most important 
thing is to work, to learn from each 
other," he said. "I hope when I'm 
!luccessful in America, then I can be 
Jofl more help to my country. I wish I 
could go back quickly, but I don't 
believe [I will be able to] so quickly." 


-Andrea Assarat



**Title: College Volunteers**
**Author: Eric Fisher**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Ben Doolittle hopes his group will circumvent the bureaucracy of other campus 
organizations. 

Perhaps the most striking aspect of the 
n"w organization 
called College 
Volunteers is its simplicity. "An ape 
coulda thought of it," 
said 
Ben 
Doolittle (ES '91), a founder of the 
){roup. 
"The residential 
college 
volunteer groups are incredibly active 
orl{anizations without the annoying 
formal bureaucracy," he said. Doolittle 
and Don Chen QE '89) founded Col-
lege Volunteers last year as a network 
of community service goups in the 
residential colleges. 


Each group 
consists of leaders at one of the colleges 
and a core of students who sign up for 
various short- and long-term volunteer 
jobs in New Haven. 
College Volunteers does 
dt·mand the same substantial time 
rommitments required by Dwight Hall 
prol{l"ams such as the Yale Hunger 
Action Project. "'College Volunteers 
t•nables people to make commitments 
at their own pace, without committing 
to larger projects which may some-
times be overwhelming," explained 
Chris Roberts (SY '91), who leads a 
'{roup at Saybrook. Lisa Nelson (DC 
'9 l ), who runs the Davenport group, 
believes that this organization makes 
the problems faced by the people of 
New Haven more tangible. "You get 
the feeling that you're doing something 
direct. as opposed to other community 
service projects, where you're just 
sitting at a table with other Yalies 
signing people up for something," she 
said. 


In addition to its simplicity and its 
focus on hands-on experience, College 
Volunteers has the advantage of a non-
partisan image. According to Chen, 
students often avoid volunteer work 
through Dwight Hall for political 
reasons. "It is perceived as being 
e-xtremely liberal," he said. While 
Chen adds that this image of Dwight 
Hall is inaccurate, he believes that it 
fril'{htt•ns ofT potential volunteers who 
hold more conservative views. 


A ({rowing number of students who 
havt· never been involved with Yale's 
other community service projects have 
joined the College Volunteers 
last 
year. 
The organizatio n 
developed from a group which has 
heen in existence at Ezra Stiles for the 
past four years. This group prepared 
and served food on a regular basis at a 
soup kitchen held in the annex of 
Columbus House. In 1987, when 
Doolittle took charge of the group in 
Stiles, he and Chen began discussing the 
rossibilit} of expanding the program 
to include all twelve colleges. Last fall, 
Chen and Doolittle, together with 
Meir Lakein OE '91) and Beth Lin (SY 
'91 ), started contacting people they 
knew would be interested in leading 
volunteer groups. 


Pierson, Davenport and Trumbull 
colleges have combined efforts to 
provide meals for the hungry at the 
Downtown 
Evening Soup Kitchen 
(DESK) every Tuesday evening. Each 
college works on a different part of the 
process, from transporting the food to 
cooking and serving the meals. Morse 
volunteers its services to DESK at the 
Kosher Kitchen on Sunday nights. 
Berkeley 
serves 
a 
breakfast at 
Columbus House weekly. Stiles and 
Silliman also work in the Columbus 
House soup kitchen. At Jonathan 
Edwards, Chen has developed a varied 
volunteer program where members 
devote time to activities such as 
making telephone calls to lobby for 
affordable housing legislation. 


One obstacle the program faces is 
funding. Although Chen says that in 
certain instances college masters have 
given College Council funds to the 
Volunteers, the Council of Masters 
does not officially permit such awards. 
For the most part, college volunteer 
groups have had to raise funds inde-
pendently. By setting up a solicitation 
table outside the Stiles dining hall, for 
example, Doolittle managed to raise 
more than $500 for his group. 


As recipients of the Dwight Hall 
Humanitarian Award, 
Chen and 
Doolittle plan to use the money to give 
the College Volunteers a boost. They 
will give the award to a college group 
which has demonstrated outstanding 
dedication 
to community service, 
Doolittle explained. "Maybe with the 
money we'll be able to plant an up-and-
('oming volunteer group firmly on its 
feet, and bring the ethic of service to 
t>ven more people." 


-Eric Fisher



**Title: Getting Into Print**
**Author: Frank David**
**Page number(s): 8**

Henry Schwab says publicity is key 
for a small publisher. 

Henry Schwab, owner of Book Haven 
on York Street, knows a Jot of profes-
sors in Yale's English department. So 
five years ago, when Schwab started a 
book publishing company named after 
himself, he already had some valuable 
contacts. This year, Henry R. Schwab 
Inc. will put out its first book, the latest 
work of Yale professor Harold Bloom, 
an internationally- known literary 
critic. 


Schwab (MC '63, M.A. '72) met 
Bloom through another friend in the 
English department, Professor John 
Hollander, who frequently comes by 
the store. Bloom soon began to make 
trips to Book Haven too, to check over 
the shelves and discuss literature with 
Schwab. "(Bloom) has always found it 
helpful to come in, browse, ask 
questions and get recommendations," 
Schwab said. During Bloom's visits, 
the two men talked about Schwab's 
dreams of getting into the reprint 
publishing business- putting old, out-
of-print books back on the market. 


When Bloom asked if Schwab were 
interested in publishing one of his own 
works, Schwab gladly accepted the 
offer. 


The book, called The Poetics of 
Influence: New and Selected Criticism, is a 
"Bloom reader." Twelve of the 25 
chapters are journal articles Bloom has 
re-edited for Poetics and one is a 
recently discovered essay. The re-
maining twelve chapters are reprints 
from previous Bloom books. 


As it turned out , finding a book was 
the easy part. Actually publishing 
Poetics became a long and difficult 
process for Schwab. In some cases, 
Schwab said, publishers denied reprint 
rights for proposed chapters, and he 
and Bloom had to revise their plans for 
the book's contents. 


Furthermore, Schwab discovered, 
Bloom's name alone does not sell his 
books. So far, he has sold 700 of 1500 
paperbacks distributed nationwide. In 
spite of the 
fact 
that both 
London Times Literary Supplement and the 
Boston Globe have reviewed Poetics, no 
other periodicals have picked up on the 
new release. In order for a small, new 
outfit like his to market a book, 
Schwab said, it needs more widespread 
attention. "I'm learning still about how 
difficult it is to market a book, even by 
a name author," he said. 


Schwab predicts that he will have an 
even harder time clearing a profit in 
reprint publishing. The demand for 
reprints is low because they lack the 
advertising benefit of reviews, and 
because the original books are still 
available in libraries. He plans to 
improve his sales by specializing in 
critical works in classics and English 
literature, aimed at the university 
market. His working list of titles 
includes works by ten Yale professors, 
many of whom are Book Haven clients. 


Still, Schwab said, financial success 
is secondary to his concern for the 
continued life of. scholarly works. "I 
think it's very worthwhile to have 
available books that aren't the latest 
books in the field ," he said. "Otherwise 
it's almost the same as the bestsellers. 
That's not how any·field should work." 


-Frank David


**Title: Classroom Talk**
**Author: Matt Flitscher**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"What really bothers me," Erin says, 
·'are the Orthodox Jews who use this 
principle to ... " Smiling at her 
dissatisfaction, she describes people 
she knows in Baltimore. David and I 
listen; we tap our index fingers in our 
books, ready to return to learning the 
details of keeping kosher. The others, 
though, start arguing with Stories, then 
with feeling: "Who ever heard of such a 
thing?" They negotiate compromises 
over the reading, returning to it 
faithfully, only to jump away again 
into their own experiences. Not until 
after class do David and I settle our 
questions. 


I still find it a bit bewildering to see 
academic thinking shoved aside in the 
classroom. David and I prepare for 
class as a pair, foxholed together, face 
to face. Learning at Machon Pardes, 
a yeshiva in Jerusalem, means being 
together in the study hall, being 
together in the classroom. We don't 
write papers, we talk. David and 
I- both feeling the weight of being 
beginners- try to drive through these 
texts as hard as we can so we can 
absorb. and know. 


Pardes' program is based on torah 
lishmah, study for its own sake. "In any 
institution where such a principled 
devotion to knowledge for its own sake 
prevails," explained President Benno 
Schmidt when I entered Yale two years 
ago, "truth ... will claim the highest 
value." At Pardes, we struggle in the 
classroom from 8 to 6, but not for 
truth. Our talk is about our daily 
carryings-on, our behavior. And 
though Pardes unquestionably empha-
sizes the classroom- in his intro-
ductory speech, the director reassured 
us that the study hall is the real 
world- we are connected to the world 
of public action and human 
implication. As "an integral part of our 
studies," Pardes mandates that each 
student 
participate weekly in a 
community service project. 


Shoshana is seventy years old and 
has four grown kids and I visit her once 
a week. We talk, mostly about children 


Shoshana minds two babies, Gilad 
and Shalevet. Childhood is the time, 
explain the biologists, that we learn the 
adaptive behaviour used by the adults 
of the species. Gilad is learning to talk 
and so am I, a baby that pays the rent 
and takes a university seminar in 
science and modern political theory. 
Tea and cookies with Shoshana is 
just a piece of the world, an oppor-
tunity to participate in the social 
fabric. Our afternoons repel analysis; 
we cannot think alike. We share only 
these bare hours of involvement. Even 
when I left Pardes ·in the middle of the 
year, I arranged my work schedule so I 
could continue seeing Shoshana. 


"Education," insists Schmidt, "is not 
for career but for life. A liberal 
education enhances our capacities for 
community, 
for affiliation, 
for 
empathy," he says. Wrestling in a Yale 
classroom, though, no matter how 
vigorous, 
revolves around dispas-
sionate analysis and tends toward crisp 
detachment. Classroom talk soaks in 
the written word; whether talking 
about fiction or a research article, we 
dissect, connect, elaborate, interpret. 
Human implications, however, get 
shunted away. 


Kingman Brewster, in his inaugural 
speech for the Yale presidency in 1963, 
called for pulling students out of the 
classroom. He worried that students 
were withering in the university, losing 
their enthusiasm in 
a 
lockstep 
march to credentials. He urged a new 
strategy: students needed to go beyond 
Yale's gates, to go out there to "splice 
experience with learning." 


In the fall of 1965, Yale established 
the Five-Year B.A. Program, which 
annually sent a dozen students away 
from Yale, to work for a year in a 
different · culture. Brewster did not 
trust the educational process to 
produce leaders with real perspective. 
Being out in the field (or in the 
bush-many went to Africa), these 
Program participants would realize 
that public service had to be hands-on, 
and would be "deterred from pursuing 
post-baccalaureate degrees." 


"What happened," recalls William 
Foltz, the program's director until its 
demise in 1971, "is that students felt 
that to understand the scenes of 
poverty before their eyes in Africa, 
they needed to go to graduate school to 
understand the banking system. 
"Kingman never stopped laughing 
at how naive he was about that." 


Brewster hoped to reorient students' 
priorities. Even in the ideal Yale, even 
with a searching, wrestling community 
of people with diverse experiences, we 
won't fully learn about either the world 
or ourselves. Active immersion in 
places without students, with people 
like Shoshana, he thought, could 
repair that. With this involvement-
coupled, of course, with Yale's 
education- students might well 
become effective leaders. 


I return hesitantly to the university. 
Pardes and Shoshana have taught me 
to examine the cultures we learn from. 
At Yale, I believe that the classroom 
can unite outside experience with 
academic thinking, that like Erin, we 
can be . stirred by scholarship. From . 
my apartment, though, 
I 
look 
downstairs, 
and 
wonder about 
emotionally pulling back from the 
world of involvement. On the parking 
lot, the kids are playing soccer in the 
morning sun, skipping school. 
• 
Matt Flitscher is a sophomore in Trumbull.


**Title: Whose Right? The Abortion Debate on the Local Front**
**Author: Ellen Katz**
**Page number(s): 12**

Eleven bills limiting access to abortion 
came before the Connecticut legislature 
last spring- the most in any state. 
These proposals ranged from a 
parental notification requirement to a 
constitutional amendment outlawing 
abortion altogether. Although none of 
the bills passed, the Supreme Court's 
July decision, Webster vs. Reproductive 
Health Services, which upheld Missouri's 
regulations prohibiting abortion in 
public hospitals 
or by public 
employees, will probably help several 
of them become law by next year:. · · 


Since 
1821, when Connecticut 
became the first state to criminalize 
abortion, it has been a battleground for 
reproductive rights. 
Griswold v. 
Connecticut, a 1965 Supreme Court 
decision, found an implicit right to 
privacy in the Bill of Rights, which laid 
the groundwork for federally protected 
abortion rights. 


For ten days in November, 1961 
Estelle T. Griswold and C. Lee Buxton 
counseled married couples about birth 
control at a Planned Parenthood 
Center on Trumbull Street. In so 
doing, they violated a state law that 
prohibited using contraceptives and 
providing information about them. 
Their arrest, conviction and 
subsequent appeal to the U.S Supreme 
Court led to the Griswold decision. 


Certain areas of private concern, the 
Court 
ruled , 
such 
as 
"the 
marital bedroom," are protected from 
government intrusion. 


New Haven attorney Catherine 
Roraback, 
who helped prepare 
Griswold and Buxton's defense, has 
been fighting for privacy and abortion 
rights for 30 years. "We didn't expect 
to win on the right to privacy," 
Roraback said of the Griswold case. 
"Really we were arguing that the state 
statute was a denial of liberty and 
property without due process, and a 
violation of freedom of speech. The 
Court was looking for a chance to say 
something rather broad on the right to 
12 The New journal/September 8, 1989 
privacy." 


Roraback felt that Roe v. Wade was 
the logical extension of the right to 
privacy. Today, sixteen years later, 
she believes Webster's sanctioning of 
state regulation endangers that right. 


Following Webster, State Rep. 
Benjamin 
DeZinno 
decided 
to reintroduce a bill that would keep a 
minor 
from 
having an abortion 
without first notifying one of her 
parents. Although the proposal died in 
the Public Health Committee last 
spring, Representative George Jepsen, 
an opponent of such restrictions, now 
believes Webster will help it pass. In 
Connecticut, Jepsen says, "The real 
battleground remains parental noti-
fication, which we· will probably lose." 


DeZinno's bill is similar to the 
statutes in question in two of the 
abortion cases the Supreme Court will 
hear this fall. DeZinno emphasizes that 
his bill stipulates the minor tell only 
one parent, not both. "This is not to 
deny access," says DeZinno. Rather, 
he describes his bill as a means of 
fostering communication within the 
family and providing an opportunity 
for parental guidance. 


In 1988, State Rep. Anthony Nania 
proposed cutting off state funds which 
support abortion 
or contraceptive 
services to unmarried minors without 
their parents' written consent. "I have a 
right to know if my child is practicing 
contraception, or having an abortion," 
Nania said. 


Yet Roraback believes that the 
true intent of parental notice is not to 
foster communication, but to stop 
women from 
getting abortions. 
Further, she says, the notification 
requirement ignores individual 
circumstances. 
The daughter of 
abusive parents, for instance, has good 
reason not to tell them of her preg-
nancy. 


However, Richard Tulisano, head 
of the State Judiciary Committee, 
believes that parental notice would 
"Our legislation is in 
anticipation of what is 
highly likely. Our goal 
is to preserve the 
status quo." 
.. 
only lead to abuse in rare circum-
stances, and is therefore reasonable. "I 
don't think these exceptional cases 
should rule," he said. Furthermore, he 
says the state's interest in fostering 
familial communication warrants this 
regulation of the right to privacy. 


Tulisano believes that a majority of the 
public-including 'some people who 
identify themselves as "pro-choice"-
support 
some 
regulation 
of 
·abortion. In advocating restrictions 
such as parental notice, he says he is 
seeking a middle ground between those 
who favor abortion on demand and 
those who oppose it unequivocally. 


DeZinno, however, favors restric-
tions as part of a larger anti-abortion 
program. "I am against abortion and 
will do whatever I can to limit it," he 
said. 


Last spring, 
he 
sponsored 
legislation that would have cut off 
public funds to pay for abortions 
except in the case of rape or incest or to 
save the life of the mother. "Ideally, I 
support abortion only to save the life of 
the mother, but I'd accept it in cases of 
rape or incest," he said. "I'm being 
realistic about this issue." 


An attempt to restrict public funding 
is less likely to succeed in Connecticut 
than the parental notice proposal. "We 
won't lose on funding," Jepsen said. 
He points to Doe v. Maher, a 1986 
Connecticut Superior Court case, as a 
barrier to such legislation. The court 
ruled that the state must provide 
Medicaid funding for all abortions, not 
just those necessary to protect the life



**Title: Abortion Rights in Connecticut**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of the pregnant woman. Roraback, 
who argued the case, contended that 
without such funding, the poor no 
longer have access to 
abortion 
facilities. The practical consequence, 
she said, 
is that they lose their 
constitutional right to privacy. 
As opponents of abortion welcome 
Webster as an opportunity to enact 
restrictive legislation, abortion rights 
advocates are seeking to preserve the 
right to privacy through a counter-
offensive of their own. Jepsen and State 
Sen. Richard Blumenthal are trying to 
repeal old statutes criminalizing 
abortion in case the Supreme Court 
overturns Roe v. 
Wade. Although a 
federal 
court rul_ed these 
statutes 
unconstitutional in 1972, they remain 
on the books. 
.Jepsen and Bh.iritenthal, moreover, 
want to preserve specific elements of 
Roe through new legislation, including 
a proposal preventing the state from 
restricting a woman's right to an 
abortion during the first two trimesters 
of her pregnancy. "Our legislation is in 
anticipation of what is highly likely," 
says Jepsen. "Our goal is to preserve 
the status quo." 
If in Griswold the Supreme Court 
allowed for a "broad" right to privacy, 
in Webster it substantially narrowed 
the scope of that right. Webster's 
encouragement of state regulation erodes 
the right to privacy guaranteed by Roe 
and Griswold. It theoretically threatens 
not only Roe, but Griswold itself. 
.Just how far DeZinno, Nania and 
other opponents of abortion will be 
able to push restrictive legislation and 
still 
pass constitutional scrutiny 
remains 
to be 
seen. 
Yet the 
significance of the decision, 
says 
Nania, is clear: "Webster is the 
beginning of a legal u-turn." 
• 
Elkn Katz, a junior in Timothy Dwight 
College, is on the staff of TN J.


**Title: The Big Vote**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

"Fight the Power!" came pounding out 
of a boombox on the floor of the 
Democratic Nominating Convention. 
Three young men carrying "Youth for 
Daniels" signs were leading a long line 
of the mayoral candidate's supporters, 
waving flags withjewish, African, and 
Puerto Rican symbols. About 400 New 
Havencrs squeezed into the steamy 
auditorium 
at Conte School on 
Thursday night, July 27, while on 
stage, members of the Democratic 
Town Committee struggled to address 
the noisy crowd. When the Daniels 
people finally sat down, ·a brass 
band struck up "Happy Days Are 
Here Again," and an older group, 
waving American flags and DeStefano 
placards, took its turn around the 
room. 
John DeStefano won at the con-
vention, 
to carry the party's 
endorsement to the Democratic 
primary this Tuesday, September 12. 
For all practical purposes, the primary 
will mark the end of the mayoral race 
for 
Democratic candidates John 
Daniels and john DeStefano, as well as 
R~publicans Roberta (Robie) Pooley 
and Tobin Hitt. As usual, there is little 
doubt that a Democrat will win in the 
general election (no Republican has 
been mayor here since 1953). But this 
year's campaign has generated a lot of 
excitement. Volunteers have signed up 
close to 3,000 new voters, and New 
Haven has not seen such a split in its 
dominant party since the beginning of 
Mayor Biagio DiLi~to's ten-year reign. 
When 
DiLieto announced last 
spring that he would not run again, he 
left the mayoral seat open for the first

time since 1969, when the legendary 
Dick Lee stepped down after 16 years. 
Daniels · had 
already 
begun his 
campaign, 
cr itizin g 
the 
old 
administration and declaring that it 
was "Time for a Change." DeStefano, 
the city's development administrator 
under DiLieto, entered the race on 
May 
1, 
calling himself "A New 
Gene ration 
o f 
L eadershi p ." 
While New Haven ~taggers under its 
overwhelming 
hui'na n 
crises 
in 
r>overty, AIDS, and crime, the next 
mayor will have to confront the 
immediate 
practical 
problems of 
handling the city's overflow of solid 
waste as the Middletown landfill closes 
in .June, and managing a government 
strarped for funds as its tax base 
shrinks. 
DeStefano, Daniels, and Pooley all 
say the next mayor should concentrate 
more on human services. Except for 
T ohin Hitt, who has said h e would cut 
otr funds to the city's Shubert Theater 
and form special police posses to round 
up prostitutes on Edgewood Avenue, 
the candidates have maintained fairly 
uniform stands on the issues. The two 
Democrats have both proposed recy-
din l.{ and composting programs to deal 
with solid waste, and have said they 
will huild more affordable housing. 
Despite 
their similar 
positions, 
Danids and DeStefa no 
have very 
diO<.·n·nt backgrounds and political 
stylt·s . .John Daniels grew up in the 
Elm Haven public housing projects. A 
high school football hero, he came 
honw after college to begin his 25-year 
r>olitica l 
career 
by running fo r 
aldt'rman. As the first black candidate 
with a good chance of winning, in a 
ritv run by Irish and Italian mayors 
sinn· 1900, he has promised to build a 
coalition of New H aven's diverse racial 
and l'thnic communities. "H e can 
rTarh out to all different neighbor-
hoods and galvanize them to fight the 
human problems of the city," said U.S. 
Congressman Bruce M orrison. The 
latest New Haven Register poll showed 
Daniels had a broad base of support: 
43 percent of the vote versus 24 · 
percent for DeStefano. 
As a state senator, Daniels drafted 
1 he drug bill passed this year which will 
"What happens when 
you have one party 1n 
control is that they 
don't have to account 
to anyone." 
fund treatment, law enforcement and 
cdurat ion programs across the state. 
Alonl.{ with Morrison, he also devel-
opt'cl a project to replace the Elm 
Haven high rises with public housing, 
and cn·ated 
regional 
housing 
compact to promote similar efforts. 
Morrison admires what he calls 
Daniels' conciliatory leadership style. 
Hut Pooley calls h im passive. O ver the 
course of nine years in the state 
h·l.{islature. Daniels has taken very few 
pm\(·rful stands. 
In his campa ign for mayor, Daniels 
has mt·t with members of youth gangs 
: .... well as Yale professors, to discuss 
pmbkms of drugs and crime. "A lot of 
\'Cl\111.{ guy:-
on the street do feel 
comfortable with him. He's someone 
who docs identify with us," said Darell 
Moss. a member of Youth for Daniels. 
''\\'hen I talk about change in this city 
I'nr talking about inclusion," Daniels 
said. "Over the last ten years the party 
nr:whine has completely dominated. 
It's het>n an era when people are 
<"-.:eluded, and neighbor is divided 
al.{ainst neighbor." 
When .John DeStefano talks about 
<'hange. on the other hand, he is 
usua.lly 
talking about municipal 
finan<·e. "If there's discrimination in 
this <"ity it's economic," he said. "I don't 
think 
w<·'re 
torn apart 
racially." 
D1·St<'fano, who began his career in 
1.{0\'l'r·nmcnt as a comptroller and has 
11<'\Tr held elected office, is running on 
his reputation as a detail-conscious 
tl'<"hnocrat. H e describes himself as 
nwtinrlous and demanding. "Some 
rwople have called me difficult, but I 
just 
demand excellence," he said. 
Among 
his 
most 
important 
accomplishments, he lists rescuing the 
Shubert Theater from the brink of 
bankruptcy, building the public library 
on the Green, and leading a project to 
put up homeless shelters in New 
H avcn neighborhoods. 
D<·Stefano's supporters praise his 
hands-on aggressive style. "After six, 
years on the board of aldermen, I 
know the difference between doing the 
job and making the rules," said fo~mer 
aldl'rwoman Judith Baldwin. "We're 
facing a minimum of five years of very 
n·-;t ric ted financial resources to deal



**Title: New Haven's Mayoral Race**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'· 
with major problems. I want some-
body in that slot who has the skills and 
practical experience to do the job." As 
mayor, DeStefano plans to relieve 
Nt•w Haven's financial troubles by 
building an "urban coalition" with 
Hartford and Bridgeport, ana pushing 
for a statewide income tax. "The great 
division that exists is not within the 
<·ity," he said. "It's between the city and 
the suburbs. And we're foolish to lose 
si~ht of that." 

DeStefano has also said he will 
restructure 
city bureaucracy, 
to 
t•liminate overlapping and conflicting 
r<·sponsibilities among departments, 
and 
make 
social 
services 
more 
accessible to citizen s. "I will break 
down the barriers that have grown up 
b<-1 ween 
individuals and 
their 
~overnment," he said. 

H istorically, however, much of the 
division between individuals and city 
~ov<· rnment in New Haven grows not 
from an inaccessible bureaucracy but 
from the structure of the city's all-


powerful Democratic party. "What 
happens when you have one party in 
control is that they don't have to 
account to anyone," said Pooley. A 
C'omplacent 
one-party system 
has 
neglected citizens' needs for years, she 
said, leading to many of New Haven's 
current crises. In the last year of the 
DiLicto administration, New Haven 
has left S9 milJion in anti-poverty 
funds unspent, 
besides losing its 
ft·derally-funded Headstart program, 
because of mismanagement. Daniels 
has also lashed out at the city's 
Democratic "machine," which, he said, 
has excluded candidates who represent 
tht· interests of the broader population. 

Ml've been called a machine, 'the 
mustache,' and the leader of a great 
party," Democratic Town Chair 
Arthur Barbieri said in his speech at 
the 
nominating convention . "But 
please 
remember that since my 
ascendancy, the only time a Republican 
has seen the inside of City Hall has 
heen when that Republican has paid a 
Both sides claim the 
support of the 
Hispanic community. 
visit." History books on New Haven 
politics have immortalized Barbieri as 
th<· driving force behind the city's old-
style Democratic machine. During his 
20 years as Town Chair from 1953 to 
1973, Barbieri kept a tight grip on the 
party. In that era, characterized by 
hattles between 
Irish and 
Italian 
political "bosses," through deal-making 
and "ward-heeling," Barbieri saw to it 
that 
the party-endorsed 
candidate 
won. This year, after Town Chair 
Vincent Mauro was killed suddenly in 
a car accident, the Town Committee 
a<>ked Barbieri to resume his old post. 

Barbieri presided over the 
Democratic Nominating Convention 
in 1969, when Lee stepped down and 
Daniels made his first bid for mayor. 
DeStefano was only 14 years old at the 
rime. According to Fred Powledge, 
aUihor of Modtl City, a history of New 
Haven 
politics, 
Bart Guida, "the 
machine's choice" won the nomination. 
In his book, Powledge gives a dramatic 
description of the '69 convention:


**Title: The New Haven Mayoral Race**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ferrucci as a candidate rather than 
simply promoting Tyson, as expected, 
because Tyson, who is black, posed a 
threat 
to the Italian-dominated 
machine. 
"I supported Frank Logue (an anti-
machine candidate who beat Bart 
Guida in 1973) when DiLieto chal-
lenged him, and I supported the mayor 
when DiLieto became mayor," Daniels 
said. "For the first couple years, 
DiLieto's ideals and visions were 
compatible to mine. But in the last four 
years he began to rely on people like 
DeStefano and Joe Carbonne and I 
became disenchanted. I've felt the 
machine was wrong." 

DeStefano presents himself as aloof 
from the political fray. "Those are old 
battles, and I haven't been in politics 
for very long," he said. While Daniels 
calls DeStefano part of the political 
machine, D eStefano emphasizes that 
he is actually less of a politician than 
Daniels. "I see Daniels as cut out of the 
old way," DeStefano said. "He's the 
"He's the statesman. 
I'm a problem solver. 
I paid my dues 
differently." 
statesman. I'm a problem-solver. I 
paid my dues differently, and I don't 
see this race as the capstone of a 
25-year 
political 
career." 

Nevertheless, Daniels' partisans 
\ harge that DeStefano has benefitted 
as the "machine's choice" in this 
election. 

According to Daniels, 
Barbieri manipulated delegates' votes 
to ensure that DeStefano won the 
nomination. "It was a typical Barbieri 
convention," Daniels said. "People's 
jobs were threatened, 
and they 
squeezed out 32 votes for DeStefano." 

According to Alderwoman Katie 
Kenney of the First Ward (which 
includes Yale), Barbieri threatened not 
to endorse Ben Liebman, the Ward's 
choice as a delegate to the convention. 
"When we told him we were support-
ing Daniels he went into a tirade," 
Kenney said. "He said he was going to 
appoint someone who would vote for 
DeStefano at the convention, even 
though the Ward had voted to support 
Daniels." 

**Title: Philosophical Differences**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
This summer the Yale Week~ Bulletin 
and Calendar announced in a front-page 
article that Harry Frankfurt had been 
appointed to a prestigious chair, as the 
.John M. Schiff Professor of Philo· 
sophy. A few weeks later, Frankfurt 
announced that he was taking a job at 
Princeton . 

Although department 
members say they knew that Frankfurt 
was considering the offer from 
Princeton even before President Benno 
Schmidt appointed him to the post, to 
the rest of the Yale community the 
news came as a shock. Frankfurt 
presided over Yale's philosophy 
department as its chairman from 1978 
to 1987. "From the point of view of 
prestige, this comes as a big blow to the 
department," said Carol Freedman, a 
fourth-year graduate student. 

Frankfurt's departure is the latest 
development in the saga of a depart· 
ment struggling to overcome its 
troubled reputation and to heal some 
old wounds. 

In December, 1987, a New York 
Times 
article pitted 
two 
Yale 
professors, John Smith and Ruth 
Marcus, against each other in an 
ideological battle. The article focused 
on the split between two schools of 
20th-century philosophy known as the 
continental and analytic traditions, 
with Smith attacking the analysts and 
Marcus defending them. According to 
the Times, a minority community of 
continentalists have been trying to find 
room to practice amid an oppressive 
majority of analysts who control most 
American universities. 

Yale is unique in representing both 
traditions in its philosophy depart· 
ment. Few major universities in the


U.S. teach continental philosophy at 
all. Northwestern and SUNY Stony-
brook are the only schools other than 
Yale with substantial continental 
programs, while the top philosophy 
departments in the country are 
predominantly analytic. "Many 
departments feel that they have to 
make a choice," said Mark Kingwell, a 
~hird-year 
graduate 
student 
in political theory. "They try to be 
good in one school or the other, but not 
both." 

The analytic philosophers, 
who 
practice mostly in the United States 
and Great Britain, emphasize a rigor-
ous logical method and trace their 
roots to Bertrand Russell, Ludwig 
Wittgenstein, and early 20th-century 
logical positivism. The continental 
school, more literary in nature, focuses 
on thinkers such as G.W.F. Hegel, 
Martin Heidegger and Edmund 
Husserl. With its base in Germany and 
France, this latter school has given rise 
to the post-structuralist literary 
criticism that has become popular in 
recent years. In America, a student 
wants to study continental 
philosophers must usually seek them 
out in the literature department. 

Today, however, many professors 
contend that the labels "analytic" and 
"continental" do not tell the whole story. 
Although ten years ago the Yale 
department did reflect a larger rift in 
philosophy, according to Associate 
Professor Georgia Warnke, the field as , 
a whole has changed since then and the 
antagonism seems to have subsided. 
"There was a general impression that 
the New York Times article was out of 
date," Warnke said. Even Marcus and


Smith have softened their posltlons. 
"That dichotomy is much too small," 
Smith said. "You've got so many things 
goi11g on in the American scene, it 
won't do." 

Marcus, for her part, seems to have 
made peace with her former opponent. 
"A philosophy department needs both 
r points of view]," she said. If she 
has 
to 
make 
a 
distinction, 
she 
prefers to differentiate between 
those who do their own philosophy 
and those who study the work of 
others. Still, the people she cites 
as pioneers in philosophy also hap-
pen 
to be considered 
analysts. 
She points to W.V.O. Quine and 
Joiln 
Rawls 
as 
original 
thinkers in the areas of language and 
ethics. "It's one thing to study early 
H eidq~ge r versus later. Heidegger; it's 
another 
address 
philosophical 
problems such as the nature of rules or 
fJut'stjons of language or ethics," she 
said. 

However one chooses to draw the 
lines. Yale's effort to teach more than 
one method of philosophy has met 
mixed reviews. On the one hand, some 
st udt·nts praise the exposure to 
different approaches. 
Grad uate 
student Michael McDuffie, 
for 
one, though primarily a student of 
continental philosophy, welcomes the 
opportunity 
to study 
logic and 
philosophy of language. "In coming to 
Yale," he said, "I was required to study 
some stuff outside my own tradition 
and 
I 
found 
it 
interesting and 
productive." Some students even make 
drastic changes in their course of 
study. "I've seen students come here to 
study existentialism and they wind up 
studying logic," Smith said. 

But other undergraduates complain 
of the lack of guidance in choosing 
<·ourses, and say they feel confused 
trying to study both traditions. Stan 
Paik (BK '90) said that while the 
plethora of choices can be exciting, it 
can also be bewildering. P rofessors do 
not make explicit the d ifference in the 
two approaches to beginning students, 
claiming that 
to understand the 
difference thoroughly would require a 
substantial philosophical background. 


**Title: Yale's Philosophy Department: A House Divided?**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yet 
from 
discussions with 
other 
students, from the variety of Blue Book 
offerings, even from their syllabi, 
students sense the divergent schools of 
thought and crave some clarification. 
"Because of the divisiveness it's been 
difficult to figure out a curriculum," 
Paik said. "There's a great deal of room 
for confusion." Because of the lack of
For .30 years Professor Smith has taught 
a type of philo110phy ignored at other 
univenities. 

structure in the department, some 
students feel it is too easy to grad uate 
without working through a cohesive 
program of study. "They take one 
course 
in 
ethics, 
one course in 
philosophy of mind, some bullshit 
here, some bullshit there, and you 
have yourself a major," said J ohn 
Kroger (MC '90). 

Paik also finds it discouraging when 
he tries to cross over between the two 
schools, since an analytic professor 
may not be familiar with problems of 
continental philosophy, or students 
who have studied continental theory 
may be resistant to scientific reason-
ing. "It's a problem if you try to raise a 
logical question in a Hegel seminar," 
he said·. "There are too many different 
languages being spoken." 

Rulon Wells, a member of the Yale 
department 
1945 until his 
retirement last spring, has taught 
courses on Russell and the philosophy 
of language, as well as on myth and the 
history of philosophy. "I've heard 
enemies of the pluralistic conception 
refer to it as a 'zoo' approach," Wells 
said. Still, Wells believes in presentmg 
a variety of approaches to students. 
Moreover, many, such as Mark 
Ravizza, 
a 
graduate student, 
• 
expand on Warnke's point that the 
e 
" 
philosophical commun ity as a whole is 
~ 
~ changing. "The d istinction [between 
! analytic and continental] is kind of 
:= 
passe," he said. "In Germany, philo-
~ sophers are looking at Quine as much as 
.! at Hegel: Last year at Yale you had 
~ Rudiger Bittner teaching a seminar on 
.!l 
Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit and 
you had someone like Jonathan Lear 
going to that seminar. You have to be 
ambidextrous today." 

In theory, few Yale professors will 
argue with this tolerant lin.e. But 
historically faculty have split into 
ideological camps when arguing over 
appointments. In th e 1960's, a contin-
ental 
philosopher named Richard 
Bernstein failed to get tenure after 
strong opposition from the analysts at 
Yale. The dispute, which attracted 
attention from the media and sparked 
student protests, left Yale with a 
reputation as a divided department. A 
similar d ispute in the 1970's, over a 
professor named David Carr, led to the 
barring of junior faculty from meetings 
about appointments and tenure deci-
sions. 

If students suspect that an ideolo-
gical rift in the upper echelons of the 
department has contributed to their 
lack of direction, Yale's professors are 
quick to respond that the situation is 
improving, that the department, along 
with the whole philosophical commu-
nity, is becoming more unified. Ever 
since the Bernstein controversy, Lear 
said, undergraduates, professors at 
universities, 
and 
newspaper 
articles have speculated about the rift 
at Yale, even as it continues to heal. 
"There is always some grain of truth 
around which a rumor is built," Lear 
said. "But now it's about ten years out 
of date. Almost every vote all year has 


**Title: Afterthought**
**Author: Nina Glickson**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Afterthought/Nina Glickson 
Leading the Way 
One of the frrst women at Yale looks back 
r 
\ 
-,· ·r 
-;-J.:.. -, .. -
I 
Yale was overwhelming in the fall of 
1969. Before school started everyone 
gave me advice. My cousin, a junior at 
a women's college, said she couldn't 
think of a more exciting place to be; 
"You'll be a pioneer." "Me, a pioneer? 
What did I get myself into?" 

Living in Vanderbilt Hall was frus-
trating, 
isolating 
and occasionally 
amusing. The main entrance had glass 
:!H Tht• Nt•w .Journai/Sepcember 8, 1989 
' • 
coeducate all 12 c;:olleges right from the 
beginning rather than to create one or 
more women's colleges. The moti-
vation for scattering 250 transfer 
women may have been suspect (a 
response to angry alumni I heard), but 
it was clearly the right decision. The 
change in the female undergraduate 
population from 10% in 1969 to 45% 
in 1989 was made much simpler by 
that important move. (The change was 
later aided by the Yale Corporation's 
removal of the quota on women ad-
• 
mitted in the spring of 1973.) 

That first year the senior class was 
~ still all male, though- some of them 
! curious and some of them outright 
= 
doors and a security guard. If the 
building was set up to keep us in or 
other people out, it didn't work, 
though there was a certain degree of 
comfort in having all the freshmen 
women in one location. At least we 
formed a critical mass in Vanderbilt: 
the colleges had very few women. I did 
not realize how pleased I would be with 
the administration's decision 
to 
hostile. Simply going into the college 
dining hall often took a lot of courage. 
Friends at other schools said, "Yale 
must be so exciting with all those 
men!" My response was, "No, I wish 
there were more women." It was a 
sentiment shared by many of my 
friends. During freshman year, buses 
of women came and unloaded every 
weekend. Who wanted to go to a mixer 
filled with "imports?" It wasn't just that 
there weren't eno1,1gh women at Yale. 
The men preferred these women who 
weren't around all the time, every-
wtJere. Most of them were not used to 


--- Page 29 ---

having women as friends, and they did 
not seem to want us a~ dates either. It 
was a difficult time. 

I was the only woman in several 
classes- the same was true for most of 
my friends-and that was awkward. In 
class we were sometimes asked for the 
female point of view. As if we knew 
what that meant! One woman com-
mented that when she answered a 
question in class people turned to 
stare, "as if the furniture had begun to 
speak." In one class, I felt that the 
professor resented my presence be-
cause she no longer had her roomful of 
"boys." But perhaps the 
female 
professors had a special struggle with 
the "new" Yale, too. I think they may 
have really wanted the women to be 
superstars, so they were most disap-
pointed by average Yale performance. 
After all, Yale women were like Yale 
**Title: The Yale University Bands 1989-90**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Yale University Bands 1989-90 
Thomas C. Duffy, Director 
Yale Concert Band 
Sixty to seventy select brass. woodwind, and percussion 
players performing from the entire repertoire of symphonic 
wind music: marches. band standards. classical 
transcriptions. chamber wind pieces, contemporary works, 
including special commissioned compositions. 
All concerts are at 8:00pm in Woolsey Hall. 
• Sat., Oct. 7 
Parents Day Concert, with the 
Yale Glee Club & Yale Sym. Orch. 
• Fri., Oct. 27 Fall Concert; music of Bernstein, 
Duffy, Grainger, Husa, Milhaud 
• Time and date to be announced 
Holiday Concert 
Mozart, Rodrigo, Kurka, Fiser 
• Fri., Feb. 16 Winter Concert; music of Wilson, 
Copland, Maslanka, Diamond 
• Sun., Feb. 25 New England College Honor Band, 
2:00pm, Woolsey Hall 
Larry Rachleff, guest conductor 
.music of Ives, Hindemith, Benson 
Schuman, & others 
[Hosted by the Yale Bands, this ensemble is comprised of 
the select wind, brass, and percussion players from colleges 
throughout New England] 
• Sat. Mar. 1 ~- Yale Concert Band at Syracuse Univ. "The Yale Concert Band, on a $ix-concert tour of Italy, 
takes time out to pose for the photographer, who was 
high atop the leaning tower of Pisa." 6/1/89 
Performing for the Eastern Divisional 
conference of the College Band 
Director's National Association 
• Fri., Apr. 6 
Spring Concert; music of Davies, 
and others 
• Sun., May 27 Twilight Concert; 7:00pm -
Yale Jazz Ensemble 
Old Campus; featuring Tchaikovsky's 
1812 Overture with live artillery and 
the Harkness Memorial Carillon 
A twenty-piece Big Band playing everything from Dixie-
land to classic Ellington and Basie tunes to the latest 
contemporary charts. Available for special events. 
• Wed., Nov. 15- 8:00pm Sprague Hall 
Yale Precision Marching Band 
. Thurs., March 8 _ 8:00pm Sprague Hall 
120-250 musicians and others both celebrated and 
• Tues., Apr. 17 - 8:00pm Sprague Hall 
infamous for a unique blend of musical and topical satirer.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
performed at football games, pep rallies, and the like. 
Sept. 
16 
23 
30 
Oct. 
7 
14 
28 
Nov. 
4 
11 
18 
Brown 
Lehigh 
UConn 
Colgate (Parents'/ YouthDay) 
at 
Dartmouth 
Penn 
Cornell 
Princeton 
Harvard 
All Yale Band concerts (Concert Band and Jazz 
Ensemble), unless noted otherwise, are free and 
open to the public. For more information about 
any aspect of the program, call 432-4111 or write: 
Yale Bands, 3-A Yale Station, New Haven, CT 
06520. Scheduled events may change unexpect-
edly. For verification, call 432-4113, which will 
have taped concert information one week before 
each event. 
The New Journal/September 8. 1989 31




**Title:  Advertisement**
**Page number(s): 32**

AkA 
y 
R K 
Yak Rl:p 
z 
....1 
~ 
l.&.l 
0 
c:.
, 
"' 
< 
u 
X 
lo\: 
HJ G H 
432-2894-
8 to 5 Monday-Friday 
Resumes 
Table tents 
Posters 
Course materials 
Typesetting from Macintosh disks 
& whatnot 
-
still the lowest prices in Elm City! 

