Publication date: April 13, 1969
Volume: two
Issue number: nine


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Jeffrey Pollock, Jonathan Lear
- Business Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Art Director: Bruce Mcintosh
- Associate Editor: Lawrence Lasker
- Assistant Editor: Paul Goldberger
- Advertising Manager: K. Elia Georgiades
- Copy Editor: Paul Bennett
- Photography Editor: Robert Randolph
- Associate Business Manager: Steve Thomas
- Circulation Manager: John Adams
- Contributing Editors: Susan Holahan, William L. Kahrl, Mopsy S. Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Leo Rihutfo
- Staff: Tom Abell, Nita Kalish, Stuart Klawans, Michael David Rose, Deborah Rubin, Scott Simpson, Joel Skidmore, Craig Slutzker, Nancy Vickers, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- An old soldier returns - Richard Balzer
- Bigotry in blue - Michael Lerner
- A searching generation - George Wald
- Moynihan's Misunderstanding - Michael Parenti


**Title: Coffin**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 2**

Coffin 
The fervor that prompted 500,000 people 
to march on the Pentagon last October 
and stirred such masterpices as Armies of 
the Night seems somehow drained. The 
seniors with whom I talked last year about 
ending the war are now talking about 
Officers Candidate School. 

Yet as people are busy putting every-
thing out of their minds and getting ready 
to accept the unacceptable as fate, there 
is one thing that really must not be for-
gotten. 

William Sloane Coffin, Jr. has now been 
in legal battle for over a year trying to 
defend the right of free speech in an in-
creasing paranoid country. Exorbitant is 
not a good word to describe the legal 
expenses he has incurred. Absurd might 
be a better word, considering he is paying 
the cost of defending rights which should 
go unquestioned anyway. 

Coffiin has repeatedly turned down 
money from the ACLU so that it might go 
to other members of the Boston Five, 
who he feels need it more. Recently a 
number of students have gotten together to 
form a student compaign to raise money 
for Coffin. Questions of the war or Coffin's 
position are almost irrelevant-the real 
question is free speech. 

Hopefully all undergraduates will give 
generously when they are canvassed. All 
others who want to give, please send a 
check made out to: "Students In Support 
of Coffin" or "SSC'' to 500 Yale Station. 


**Title: Hiroshima**
**Author: Robert Jay Lifton**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Hiroshima 
Robert Jay Lifton, professor of psychiatry 
at the Yale Medical School, has recently 
been awarded the National Book A ward 
in science for Death in Life: Survivors of 
Hiroshima, a book first reviewed in the 
New Journal. The following is his ac-
ceptance statement. 

I am grateful for this occasion. But Hiro-
shima permits no awards. It does require, 
though seldom receives, unflinching rec-
ognition. This recognition is important 
for the survivors of atomic bombing be-
cause it conveys to them the sense that 
their experience has significance for the 
world and for themselves. But it is even 
more important for the rest of us. We need 
Hiroshima to give substance to our terror-
however inadequately that city can rep-
resent what would happen now if thermo-
nuclear weapons were to be used on 
human populations. As a way of recogniz-
ing Hiroshima I shall forward one half of 
the monetary award to a Special Fund for 
Survivors; and the other !Jalf, equally 
divided, to two American groups: The 
Council for a Livable World, and Phy-
sicians for Social Responsibility-groups 
which refuse to allow us to deceive our-
selves about nuclear and biological 
weapons and insist that we pursue science 
to promote life, and medicine to promote 
healing. 

Nuclear weapons have already damaged 
us more than we know. They have created 
within us an image of historical extinc-
tion and caused us to feel severed from 
both past and future. They also impose 
upon us every variety of psychic numb-
ing-of emotional and intellectual anes-
thesia-so that we need not feel and cannot 
grasp their brutalizing effects upon human 
beings. This numbing not only interferes 
with our capacity to cope with the 
weapons themselves but extends into 
all of our perceptions of Jiving and dying. 
Rather than an age of anxiety, we live 
in an age of numbing. 

StiJJ worse, the weapons create in us an 
aura of worship. They become grotesque 
technological deities for a debased religion 
of nuclearism-gods sought by everybody 
as part of an all-too-human tendency to 
confuse the power of apocalyptic destruc-
tion with the capacity to protect, or even 
create, life. We then speak of nuclear 
stock piles, nuclear arsenals-of a benefic-
ent nuclear umbrella or of an equally 
beneficent system of Anti-Ballistic Mis-
siles. We perpetuate an illusion of security 
by means of step-by-step logic; but this is 
the logic of madness. 

Are we inexorably condemned to live 
out our image of historical extinction-or 
rather, to die out in accordance with that 
image? Had I thought so, I would not have 
attempted to say anything at all about 
Hiroshima. Both haunting and true is a 
phrase of Theodore Roethke: "In a dark 
time the eyes can see." The kind of vision 
needed for us to keep going as a species 
includes full confrontation with the weap-
ons themselves: with what they do, cause 
and mean. Through such Faustian immer-
sion into our particular purgatory, we may 
be able not only to cleanse ourselves but 
to understand our predicament and act 
upon it. Here and there have emerged the 
beginnings of such a vision: on the part 
of older generations who have lived 
through Hiroshima, and younger ones 
who, without yet focusing upon the 
specific nature of the weapons, have been 
trying to tell us that a world dominated 
by these weapons is not the only kind of 
world we need have. Hiroshima makes 
clear that our dilemmas are ultimate ones, 
that we are equally capable of destroying 
or renewing ourselves. 

Robert Jay Lifton 


**Title: Miller**
**Author: George Kannar**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

Miller 
After two and half years hairdresser 
James Miller and Professor of Law Steven 
Duke will be able to relax for a while. 
On March 14 the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Second Circuit threw out 
MiJler's narcotics smuggling conviction 
on the grounds that the prosecutor should 
have revealed that his prime witness had 
been hypnotized prior to the trial. 

Miller and Duke may have only enough 
time to catch their breath, however, since 
the Justice Department can initiate new 
proceedings and call for a new trial at any 
time. The United States Attorney for 
Connecticut, Jon 0. Newman, who aided 
in the prosecution of Miller's first trial, 
won't say that he will seek a new trial, 
but he won't deny it either. 

Although Miller claims that unethical 
and illegal methods were used by federal 
agents in their attempts to produce evi-
dence of his guilt, the court maintained 
confidence in the good faith of US At-
torney William Butler, who hypnotized 
Michel Caron, the witness, and who later 
failed to reveal the hypnosis at the time 
of Miller's trial. The court's view of the 
case, as expressed in the opinion written 
by Circuit Judge Henry Friendly, is at 
best a grudging admission that unfair 
methods were used by the government in 
the prosecution of Miller; in fact, the 
court looks upon the whole affair as un-
fortunate rather than tragically misguided. 

The court's opinion does not deal with the 
broader charges Professor Duke raised in 
the course of his defense: namely, that 
the government made up its mind in ad-
vance to "gang up" on Miller and then 
set about digging up the evidence neces-
sary to convict him. 

Friendly's opinion does not deal with 
the question of Miller's innocence or guilt 
either; it merely admits that the hypnosis 
should have been revealed. In throwing 
out Miller's conviction Friendly says, 
"We have reached this conclusion with 
some reluctance, particularly in light of 
the considered belief of the able and con-
scientious district judge-who had lived 
with this case for years-that review of the 
record in light of all the defense new-trial 
motions left him 'convinced of the cor-
rectness of the jury's verdict.' We, who 
also have had no small exposure to the 
facts, are by no means convinced other-
wise .... If the price of our decision should 
be the ultimate escape of a guilty man 
rather than the vindication of an innocent 
one, this is the kind of case where that 
price is worth paying." 

Although Newman doesn't think the 
case has any broad implication and al-
though Steven Duke says he took the case 
not to defend any particular legal techni-
cality but to seek the "vindication of an 
innocent man," still Time magazine, in its 
cool, holier-than-thou way, managed to 
glean the truth, mentioning that Friendly's 
opinion may serve as a basis for future 
rulings on the use of hypnosis in criminal 
cases. Friendly does not say that hypnosis 
should disqualify a witness, and he thinks 
Caron should be aJlowed to testify at any 
new trial of MiJier. But he does say that 
hypnosis may, at least, make a witness's 
testimony slightly questionable. "Here, 
then, is a science-if such it can be de-
nominated-which is in a comparative 
infancy and which, insofar as its use in a 
court is concerned, is not even on the 
threshold," Circuit Judge Moore says, 
mixing his metaphors in a concurring 
opinion. "In such a pasture what are or 
should be the ruJes of the game? For court-
room purposes, they have not even been 
drafted." 

On the Frank McGee Report two days 
after the court handed down its decision, 
Miller said that the decision, based on a 
legal technicality, was "only the beginning. 
It will take me the rest of my life to clear 
my name and to remove the stigma of all 
this.'' Duke is, of course, elated at the 
decision and says he will stick with the 
case until the end, whenever that comes. 
Although he wishes the press had not 
been so hostile and so inaccurate all along 
(he even pointed out a glaring mistake in 
the short Time piece), he isn't complain-
ing. He agrees with his hairdresser client, 
who says: "Finally justice has been found. 
It was hiding in this case, but now it has 
been found. Of course I never should have 
been arrested, but still the sky does look 
a little bluer and the whole world looks 
a little brighter." 

George Kannar
continued on page 14



**Title: The Law School will never be home again**
**Author: Richard Balzer**
**Page number(s): 3**

The Law School will never 
be home again 
by Richard Balzer 

I went to lunch at the Law School one day 
in November and heard that Eugene 
Rostow was returning to teach two courses 
for the spring term. We talked for a while 
about how we should welcome him back. 
I must admit none of the suggestions were 
very complimentary. Yet somehow it is 
April now, Rostow has been back for 
nearly three months, and there has been 
little one could point to as a reaction to 
his return. 

Even though some students have con-
tinued to talk of boycotting his classes or 
disrupting them, none of this talk has been 
turned into action. In fact, the only organ-
ized student response to his return has 
been a Rostow Brothers Film Festival, in 
which three movies showing Vietnam 
atrocities and severely attacking American 
policy were shown. Before the event, all 
was quiet. It was only afterwards, in a rare 
moment when Rostow lost his composure 
and tore down one of the posters, that the 
stu(lents reacted. A sign was posted imitat-
ing the rhetoric of an announcement Dean 
Pollak had recently posted when the Black 
Law Students' Union bulletin board had 
been torn down. It read, 

It has come to our attention that, during the 
course of the past few days, certain of the 
posters announcing the Rostow Brothers Film 
Festival have been rent from the ivied walls 
of our ihstitution. Now, while we are secure in 
our pious belief that no member of the greater 
Yale Law School Community can have been 
the perpetrator of this cowardly and craven 
act of petty and unmitigated hooliganism and 
vandalism, it is nevertheless incumbent upon 
us in all our Contemporary Relevance suit-
ably to deplore this attack against the very 
core of our Democratic Ideals, that Judaeo-
Christian, Anglo-American Common-Law, 
one-man-one-vote Constitutional philosophi-
cal heritage, which we cherish in our hearts 
and foster in our studies. It 1s earnestly urged 
that cooler heads will prevail in this poten-
tially critical time and that no one group, 
neither first-year class nor faculty, will take 
the Law into its own hands, thereby sullying 
and polluting its righteousness and debasing 
itself to that nadir reached by those con-
temptuous and meddlesome outside agitating 
wretches, who have so recently and so 
grievously shocked us all. 

Pe~haps, however, the lack of an extreme 
response can point us to a deeper concern: 
the malaise which currently exists at the 
Law School and the strange fascination 
with-and courting of-power by future 
leaders. To say that a malaise exists which 
affects the Law School's reaction to Ros-
tow is to believe that at some other time 
there would have been a more extreme re-
action to his return. I think that two years 
ago, and even last year at the beginning of 
the McCarthy campaign, a more extreme 
and negative response to Rostow's return 
would have occurred. This is not to say 
that such a response would have been 
proper or the best tactic, but only that 
there would have been a much stronger 
need to react. 

The Law School is a microcosm of 
the liberal community, which rightly or 
wrongly believes in its most hopeful 
moments that settling the Vietnam war is 
no longer an ideological struggle but an 
administrative issue-or in its sadder 
moments believes that there is little that 
can be done to alter the course of the 
war. Somehow student opposition to 
Vietnam policy, though probably more 
Richard Balzer is a professional photogra-
pher. He is also a second-year student at 
the Yale Law School. 
widespread now than ever before, is at its 
quietest. I don't mean to be hard on my 
colleagues, but there is little discussion 
about the war. It is an uncomfortable 
topic, one which somehow leads nowhere. 
Large numbers of students either actively 
or passively avoid discussing Vietnam. 

No matter how removed Rostow was 
from the decisions, he is popularly seen 
as a policy-maker who actively supported 
the Johnson policy. With little remaining 
appetite for Vietnam, it is not suprising 
that students seem less than eager to con-
front one of the policy-makers of the war. 

Some students, however, would claim 
that there is no need for an organized 
reaction. They contend that if Rostow is 
ignored he will be a lonely man, a man 
whom history forgets, a man who will do 
his thing off in a corner. I think they are 
wrong. In many ways the former dean 
is disarmingly warm, engaging and ideal-
istic, and be is a man whom I might have 
liked under different circumstances. But 
when he says there hasn't yet been written 
a defensible piece of opposition to the war, 
then all my emotional hostility and frus-
tration about Vietnam and its policy-mak-
ers returns. Such comments quickly 
convince one that Rostow is inflexible 
about the war. He is convinced of his 
position and his. assumption~ and there-
fore is willing to engage students and 
even take the initiative in a discussion of 
the issue. Like others, I find discussing 
the war with him nearly impossible. To 
control one's rage in order to maintain a 
"rational discussion" is difficult. 

More important, however, is that re-
gardless of Rostow's departure from 
Washington, the policie$ he supported 
both in his work and even more vivid!y 
in his recent book, Law, Power and the 
Pursuit of Peace, will not soon disappear 
from our foreign relations. The policies he 
would encourage us to follow may have 
proved unworkable in Vietnam, but it 
would be naive to believe that they will 
soon be abandoned. Statements like the 
following are not only dangerous but 
seem likely to remain in the rhetoric of our 
foreign policy: 

But the decisive element in American concern 
about Vietnam is resistance to the bleak. fact 
with which President Johnson lived every day 
·of his term: the fact that the protection of our 
national security requires not a sprint, a one-
shot effort, followed by the relief of a with-
drawal, but a permanent involvement in the 
politics of every part of the globe, based on a 
strategy of peace that seeks to achieve order 
and to make progress possible. (Law, Power 
and the Pursuit of Peace, p. 55) 

The Law School's malaise-whatever its 
causes-only partially explains the response 
to Rostow. Several students have taken his 
courses, and at least one student, less timid 
in his concern and fascination with power, 
invited him to a dinner party, while others 
actively seek him out in less formal ways. 
Even some of those who abhor his politics 
would like to understand them better. 

Whether it is true or not, people at the 
Law School believe that they-or at least 
people they have met there-will someday 
be powerful. Talk is often heard about 
this person or that being destined to be-
come a senator. The students at the Yale 
Law School are on the make and, more 
than most students, are fascinated with 
power and powerful people. Whatever his 
qualities and politics, Eugene Rostow was 
and may be still a politically powerful per-
son. A number of students could not care 
less about the substance of his politics. 



**Title: The New Journal I**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal I April 13, 1969 
They desire, perhaps rightly, to get close to 
him and find out how decisions are made, 
how power is utilized. 

Whatever popular image the Law 
School may have at Yale or elsewhere, 
the school in reality is still geared to 
the production of lawyers interested in 
being part of an existing power elite in 
this country or in creating a new elite. 

The majority of students, though more 
interested than most future lawyers in 
reform; nevertheless regard themselves 
as working within existing institutions. A 
man like Rostow-a basically good man 
who has worked at a high level and even 
made some mistakes-is therefore a man 
who probably can be useful in under-
standing the mechanisms of the system. 

Like the students, the faculty has not 
responded to Eugene Rostow's return in 
any extreme or collective manner. The 
reasons for this have to do both with the 
relations established between Rostow and 
faculty members before his departure 
for Washington and with the amorphous, 
non-structured nature of the faculty. 

It is difficult to understand the faculty's 
response to Rostow without first recalling 
his past relations with these men. Rostow 
was dean of the Yale Law School for a 
ten-year, two-term period between 1955 
and 1965. Almost all faculty members 
would agree that at least during his first 
term his combination of idealism, energy 
and liberalism immeasurably helped ex-
pand the Law School and build it into 
possibly the top law school in the country. 

There is some disagreement over how 
effective his administration was in the 
second term, particularly the last year or 
two. Most have mentioned his virtues 
during this period, though one faculty 
member has referred to him during these 
years as a "sycophantish whore." Nevertheless, 
not only did the faculty give him 
a banquet on his departure, but the 
Alumni Association in 1965 awarded 
him the Annual Merit Award. 

Since Rostow returned within two years 
after taking his leave of absence, under 
university policies there was no doubt 
about his reappointment. Now that he is 
back, there seems to be a marked genera-
tion split among the faculty. Older mem-
bers who remember him as dean remain 
friendly though possibly less intimate. 

Among young faculty members, several 
of whom were students when he was here, 
response seems more negative. The least 
receptive of the young faculty attempt 
to avoid Rostow: although they don't de-
sire to confront him openly, they want to 
limit as much as possible their relations 
with him. An example of this reaction is 
the response of the faculty to a lunch 
given for Rostow on February 29th. A 
number of faculty members found them-
selves unable to attend because of other 
commitments. 

With very few exceptions, no matter 
how they feel toward him as a human 
being, most faculty members say that 
they don't discuss the war with Rostow. 
I believe that they would find such a dis-
cussion embarrassing and psychologicaJiy 
trying and that they would rather avoid 
the subject. None of the faculty members 
I talked with had read his book Law, 
Power and the Pursuit of Peace. 

In addition, a number of faculty mem-
bers have expressed serious doubts about 
Rostow's performance in faculty meetings. 
After a recent meeting between the faculty 
and the student negotiating team, no fewer 
than four faculty members approached 
one of the student negotiators and apolo-
gized for Rostow's behavior. 

Some measure of Rostow's inability to 
deal with issues at the Law School has to 
do with the peculiar timing of his depar-
ture and return. When he left New Haven, 
the student body was fairly quiet, if not 
complacent. On returning, Rostow found a 
very active student body. It is understand-
able that without seeing the process of 
change in the student body it would be 
difficult to understand current issues and 
pressures in regard to the community, 
social relevancy, black admissions and 
grading reform, for example. 

On the other hand, much of Rostow's 
inability to deal with students stems from 
his attitudes. In his concluding report as 
dean he said, 

In small, carefully rationed doses, such calls 
for university participation in programs of 
social action may, and sometimes do, con-
tribute to the primary tasks of the faculty. 
More often, however, they tend to divert the 
professoriate from the work which is its 
special charge-that of fundamental thought. 
The universities are uniquely the institu-
tions of society in which minds are encour-
aged to take high speculative flights, with the 
benefit of perceptions available only because 
universities are at one remove from the 
hydraulic pressures of everyday life and its 
immediacies. (p. 16) 

More recently he has stated that he is 
opposed to quotas and believes the faculty 
must independently balance the different 
pressures from student groups. 

None of these statements is unusual for 
a liberal academic administrator, and that 
may be why they are so troublesome. 

Students at this school, like groups else-
where, are asking institutions to change. 
They are attempting to expropriate a type 
of property-mental property-which for a 
liberal faculty may be more precious and 
hard to give up than material possessions. 

Eugene Rostow's attitudes clearly exem-
plify the faculty's hesitancy to change this 
institution. 

In addition, for many years the Law 
School faculty has prided itself on its in-
dependence. They seem to dislike acting 
as a corporate body and prefer responding 
to situations and persons as individuals. 
They have often justified this stand by say-
ing that it is just such a policy that has 
protected this school from outside inter-
ference and potentially hostile forces op-
posed to change. The faculty has an extra-
ordinary amount of freedom in choosing 
courses they wish to teach and in the 
academic relations they wish to establish 
with students. However, it is exactly this 
independence, this desire not to act as a 
body, that not only has made the faculty 
unable to respond to the return of Rostow, 
if they might have wanted to, but more 
importantly has made them unable to 
respond to recent student demands. 

In regard to Rostow, of course, this 
potential paralysis seems unimportant. 
Those faculty members who wish to avoid 
him-and their numbers seem considerable 
-seem to do so quite easily, and those who 
wish to continue their relationship with 
him are in no way hindered. This very 
style of acting, however, makes it hard if 
not impossible for the faculty to respond 
to student issues which are addressed 
to them as a corporate body. 

The faculty has recently been con-
fronted with a series of student demands. 
The current second-year class pressed for 
grading reform a year ago but failed, and 
this year the issue was pressed again. 
There was change that some think con-
siderable. The Black Law Students' Union 
challenged the faculty to act on the recruit-
ment of black students and faculty mem-
bers, but no one seems terribly satisfied 
with the response, including the faculty 
itself. Similarly, demands from students 
for an increased role in Law School deci-
sion-making have not met with favorable 
response. "If anything," one senior pro-
fessor said, "the faculty and students have 
moved further away from community and 
more toward tactical confrontation than 
ever before." 

These men, who individually seem so 
capable of creatively responding to situa-
tions, seem to lose something when they 
meet and act collectively. It isn't just that 
they have different views. When the nature 
of the group is individualistic and collec-
tive meetings are seen as secondary to 
amorphous functioning, then it is not hard 
to predict that such a group will have 
difficulty in dealing with issues put to it 
collectively. 

The faculty's abhorrence of collective 
action has had a major impact on students. 
Subjects such as curriculum, recruitment 
by employers, law journal work and even 
institutional reform produce little collec-
tive action. Personal ego involvement and 
career concerns, no matter how sub-
limated or unconscious, discourage col-
lective activity. The whole atmosphere 
of the Law School encourages personal 
response to situations, and students have 
been no more successful than the faculty 
in overcoming this barrier. 

The quietness of Eugene Rostow's re-
turn to the Law School is appropriate, 
since the school and the man are com-
plementary. The former Under-Secretary 
represents some of the tragedy of liberal-
ism, while the Law School exemplifies the 
tragedy of liberal institutions today. 

Unfortunately, Rostow is a good man 
and, from what most say, an idealistic 
man. But he believes fundamentally in 
the Vietnam war, and thus demonstrates 
the horrors good men can produce. More 
important, his return could serve as a 
catalyst for the Law School to look at 
itself. 

The students, many of whom are dissat-
isfied with their education, are neverthe-
less being trained to accept the boundaries 
of institutional reform. Many students, 
therefore, who are as idealistic and as 
good as Rostow (who considered himself 
a radical as a student) understand all too 
well that more likely than not they will 
end up in similar positions with similar 
restraints and responsibilities. 

The qualities on which the Law School 
faculty has prided itself are qualities cited 
for a country emerging from a depression 
and two wars. Yet today, as many pro-
ponents of liberal institutions are discover-
ing, faith in individual responses and in 
the impact of individuals on an institution 
is not very persuasive. 

The Law School made dramatic changes 
in the late thirties. The introduction of 
legal realism and the way it has been used 
at this school and carried into practice by 
Yale's graduates have placed this school 
in its prominent position. But the concepts 
developed then were ahead of their time; 
they no longer are. Soon they may be be-
hind the times. The Law School is in need 
of major changes and probably is ill-
equipped to make them. 

Welcome home, Eugene Victor Debs 
Rostow. 1/11111' 


**Title: Respectable Bigotry**
**Author: Michael Lerner**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Respectable Bigotry 
by Michael Lerner 
When white Yale students denounce. the 
racist university or racist American so-
ciety, one has little doubt about what they 
refer to. One also has little doubt about 
the political leanings of the speaker. He is 
a good left-liberal or radical, upper-class or 
schooled in the assumptions of upper-class 
liberalism. 

Liberal-to-radical students use these 
phrases and feel purged of the bigotry and 
racism of people such as Chicago's Mayor 
Daley. No one could be further from 
bigotry, they seem to believe, than they. 
But it isn't so. An extraordinary amount 
of bigotry on the part of elite, liberal stu-
dents goes unexamined at Yale and else-
where. Directed at the lower middle class, 
it feeds on the unexamined biases of class 
perspective, the personality predilections 
of elite radicals and academic disciplines 
that support their views. 

There are certainly exceptions in the 
liberal-radical university society-people 
intellectually or actively aware of and op-
posed to the unexamined prejudice. But 
their anomaly and lack of success in 
making an ostensibly introspective com-
munity face its own disease is striking. 

In general, the bigotry of a lower-
middle-class policeman toward a ghetto 
black or of a lower-middle-class mayor 
toward a rioter is not viewed in the same 
perspective as the bigotry of an upper-
middle-class peace matron toward a lower-
middle-class mayor; or of an upper-class 
university student toward an Italian, a Pole 
or a National Guardsman from Cicero, 
Illinois-that is, if the latter two cases are 
called bigotry at all. The violence of the 
ghetto is patronized as it is "understood" 
and forgiven; the violence of a Cicero 
racist convinced that Martin Luther King 
threatens his lawn and house and power-
boat is detested without being understood. 

Ye~ the two bigotries are very similar. For 
one thing, each is directed toward the class 
directly below the resident bigot, the class 
that reflects the dark side of the bigot's 
life. Just as the upper-class recognizes in 
lower-class lace-curtain morality the veiled 
up-tightness of upper-middle-class life, so 
the lower-middle-class bigot sees reflected 
in the lower class the violence, sexuality 
and poverty which threaten him. The 
radical may object that he dislikes the 
lower middle class purely because of its 
racism and its politics. But that is not 
sufficient explanation: Polish jokes are 
devoid of political content. 

2 

Empirical studies do not show it, but it 
is my hunch that shortly after negro jokes 
became impossible in elite circles, the 
Polish jokes emerged. They enjoy a con-
tinuing success in universities even today. 
It also happens that while Frank Zappa 
and the Mothers o{ Invention or Janis 
Joplin may vie for top position in the hip 
radical affections, the cellar of their affec-
tions-the object of their ample, healthy, 
appropriate, unneuroticcapacities for 
hatred-is securely in the hands of that 
happy team of Mayor Daley and the Chi-
cago Police. Hip radicals in New 
Haven are often amused by the Italian 
Anti-Defamation League bumper sticker: 
"A.I.D.-Americans of Italian Descent." 

Poles, Italians, Mayor Daley and the 
police are safe objects for amusement, 
derision or hatred. They are all safely 
lower middle class. 

Michael Lerner is a graduate student in 
political science and a contributing editor. 

Part of the vaunted moral development 
of college activists is their capacity for 
empathy-their ability to put themselves in 
the position of the Disadvantaged Other 
and to see the world from hi~ circumstan-
ces. This theoretically leads them to 
empathize with ghetto blacks and there-
fore to distrust the authorities who oppress 
them. Unnoticed goes the fact that the 
"authorities" who get hated are the 
lower-middle-class police, the visible rep-
resentatives of the more abstract and 
ambivalently regarded "power structure." 

Other favored targets for confrontation 
are the National Guard and the military, 
both bastions of the lower middle class. It 
is true that Dow Chemical representatives 
are attacked and that professors and uni-
versity administrators are sometimes held 
captive. It is also true that the police, the 
National Guard and the army are the 
agents of societal racism, student and 
ghetto repression and the war in Vietnam. 
But all these things should not blind us to 
the fact the people toward whom bigotry 
as well as political dislike are directed by 
upper-class radicals are all too frequently 

Radicals gloat over the faulty syntax of 
the lower middle class with the same pre-
dictability that they patronize the ghetto 
language as "authentic." They delight in 
Mayor Daley's malapropisms ("Chicago 
will move on to higher and higher plati-
tudes of achievement") and in the lace-
curtain cynicism of his denunciations: 
"They use language from the bordello, 
language that would shock any decent per-
son." Why do they patronize one authen-
ticity and mock another? 

These upper-class attitudes are not a 
narrow phenomenon. Time, Life and 
Newsweek print ghetto phrases in reverent 
spidery italics-surrounded by space to em-
phasize the authentic simplicity-beneath 
soulful pictures of the cleansing butter-
rible, terrible poverty of ghetto blacks or 
rural poor. They reprint Daley verbatim 
as the fool. 

3 

One of the strongest supports for this 
upper-class, "respectable" bigotry lies in 
the academic field of psychology. In much 
of what practitioners choose to investigate 
and interpret, cognitive capacity, moral 
development and psychodynamic organi-
zation of lower middle-class individuals 
are described as inferior to radical 
activities. Lower-middle-class people are 
more "authoritarian," more likely to have 
"closed" minds, more likely to rely on 
"law-and-order morality" rather than the 
more advanced "moral-principle orienta-
tion," and more likely to use "massive" 
ego defenses such as repression instead of 
the more refined defenses like intellec-
tualization and isolation. Lower-middle-
class people are more likely to get stuck 
in a stage of "concrete cognitive opera-
tions" associated with low capacity for 
intellectual differentiation instead of ad-
vancing into "formal cognitive opera-
tions" with its high capacity for abstract 
thinking. 

When George Wallace said his op-
ponent was the kind of man who couldn't 
park a bicycle straight, he undoubtedly 
confirmed for a lot of academic observers 
how concrete and primitive his concept 
of successful intellectual operations was. 

Students in elite universities are de-
scribed by psychologists as possessing 
many of the virtues that lower-middle-
class-authoritarians lack. These scholars 
frequently find that among the elite stu-
dents radical activists have even greater 
moral and intellectual virtues than class-
mates from lower-class or more traditional 
families. If you examine the incidence of 
these virtues, they appear, not surprisingly, 
to cluster. It seems that psychologists 
are measuring something that has con-
nected cognitive, moral and ego-defensive 
manifestations. This something is related 
to class. 

The academic yardsticks measure 
virtues that, as they are defined, appear 
most frequently in the children of 
elite psychologists and their classmates: 
in the children of the upper-middle and 
upper class. 

These virtues do seem to be the con-
sequence of further (though not neces-
sarily higher) development than the virtues 
of the lower middle class; that is, one must 
go through the developmentally prior 
lower-middle-class virtues to reach the elite 
virtues. Repression, obedience to law and 
prompt acceptance of authority are more 
"primitive" ways of dealing with reality 
than intellectualization, reflection on prin-
ciples before obeying a law, and scepti-
cism toward authority. One psychologist 
has urged that upper-class virtues are 
better in a Platonic sense than lower-
middle-class virtues. It is revealing that he 
does not recall that Plato would undoubt-
edly have restricted the practice of upper-
class virtues to the upper class in his city, 
arguing that in the interest of harmony 
other virtues must be required of the lower 
classes. 

Should we believe that the psychologists 
have discovered an empirical basis for 
distinguishing between more and less de-
veloped men? Should we believe that the 
developed men are superior? We can start 
with two broad possibilities. Either "fur-
ther development" is the artifact of 
class blindness, and upper-class develop-
ment is merely different from lower-class 
development; or upper-class development 
is subsequent to lower class development. 
I think the weight of the argument sug-
gests the latter. 

If we opt for this possibility, we must 
then ask whether the further development 
is an achievement or a degeneration. Since 
this depends on our societal values, further 
choice is required: we can either compare 
directly the values of the further-devel-
oped individual with the formal societal 
values or we can ask whether the survival 
of the formal societal values is enhanced 
by increasing the number of people whose 
personal values are similar to the formal 
values of the society. 

This question forces us to be more 
specific about what we mean by the super-
iority of elite virtues in comparison with 
the virtues of the lower middle class. 

Recent analysts, lacking Plato's grasp of 
behavioral data and his rigorous em-
piricism, have been unrealistically ideal-
istic in considering the consequences of 
changing a class distribution of virtues. 
That elite virtues are superior, Plato saw, 
does not mean that the society would be 
better or would even survive if all pos-
sessed them. 

It may be that the lower-middle-class 
virtues provide operant support for a 
society that allows the upper class the 
luxury of elite virtues, much as Greek 
democracy was built on slave labor. I 
stress "operant support for American 
society" rather than "formal support of 
democracy" because the lower middle 
class is frequently denounced for dis-
regarding formal democratic values such 
as regard for due process and for such 
freedoms as conscience, press, expression 
and movement. 

Those who acclaim the elite radical 
virtues as superior to the virtues of the 
lower middle class would appear, if one 
admits that lower-class virtues provide 
operant support for American society, to 
have three alternatives. They can accept 
the distribution as necessary and good, 
in which case they espouse a troublesome 
elitism that cannot be reconciled with their 
radical views. Or they can argue that 
everyone should possess these virtues, in 
which case they are true radicals and 
should ask themselves whether they have 
considered in an unbiased light the im-
plications of this position. Or they can do 
what I think most people do, which is 
largely to restrict-without admitting or 
even being conscious of the restriction-
the practice of these superior virtues to 
the upper class. 

The self-serving argument for upper-
class hegemony then seems to be that the 
upper class is more intelligent, more moral 
and more finely tuned in its ego defenses 
than the lower class and that this makes 
it more fit to govern and to preserve such 
democratic values as equal access. But in 
the name of the preservation of these 
values, elite virtues must be denied to the 
lower class because their use would be 
disruptive. To preserve the society that 
guarantees access to power to those who 
are virtuous, we must deny the possession 
of virtue to the lower class and thus deny 
the access we are theoretically preserving. 

Leaving aside the hard choices that a 
believer in the superiority of radical 
virtues must make, we can ask in broader 
perspective what alternative stances one 
may take if it is true that an upper-class 
background leads to further moral and 
intellectual development. They appear 
to be: 

1. In the existing world a "further 
developed" man may govern worse rather 
than better. A principled orientation can 
be disastrous in world politics, as the 
principled architects of the Cold War 
have shown. An ability to empathize may 
lead to concessions in negotiation that 
will be misread by the Other Side as 
blanket willingness to retreat when faced 
with force. Capacity to see issues in all 
their complexity may lead to Hamlet-
like paralysis when any action would be 
preferable to none. 

2. The further development of the 
upper class might make it best qualified 
to rule, as its de facto supremacy proves. 
In a roughly democratic framework there 
is a chance for the few lower-class in-
dividuals who achieve upper-class virtues 
to rise to the top; that most leaders will 
be upper class by birth is necessary and 
even desirable to preserve social stability 
and to reduce the anxieties that result 
from situations of volatile status change. 

3. Upper-class individuals are further 
developed than lower-class individuals, 
and it is an indictment of our resource-
rich society that more people are not 
brought into these higher stages of de-
velopment. Analyses claiming that this 
would destabilize society are too contin-
gent to win credence; the destabilization, 
moreover, might result in a better society 
instead of a worse one.



**Title: 71 The New Journal**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal I April13, 1969 
4. This "further development" is de-
velopment along a path that may lead to 
the overspecialization and extinction of 
the human race. It accepts the dubious 
values of a capitalist Calvinism and con-
ceals assumptions about what constitutes 
higher development that are disastrous 
both for the individual and the species (and 
are rejected by the hippie culture). This 
building up of surplus repression in ever 
higher capacities for intellectualization 
destroys capacities for feeling, for activity, 
for love. Elephantiasis of intellect and 
atrophy of emotion are mirrored in Ameri-
can society, where our intellectual indus- · 
try, technology, produces the anti-ballistic 
missile and the death-dealing gadgetry of 
Vietnam while our feelings are too 
atrophied to insist that the logic of our 
priorities is insane. There is the atrophy 
of individual sensation inherent in watch-
ing Johnny Carson, eating Wonder Bread 
and smelling Right Guard. 

These are a few of the attitude-policy 
alternatives that acceptance of the psy-
chologists' findings could lead us to. The 
third and fourth arguments, which would 
appeal to liberals and radicals to varying 
degrees, have in common a disregard for 
the contributions of the lower-middle-
class virtues to what is good as well as what 
is bad in American society. Let us now 
ask whether this disregard is based on 
close analysis of what American society 
would look like if we all possessed the 
"superior" elite values, or whether it is 
the result of an upper-class blindness 
toward what this might mean. 

4 
Operant supports of American society, 
conservatives and radicals agree, are very 
different from the formal democratic 
virtues that guarantee the procedures of a 
democratic policy. In the course of a 
brilliant denunciation of some mandarinic 
American political scientists, Noam 
Chomsky quotes de Tocqueville: "I know 
of no country in which there is so little 
independence and freedom of mind as in 
America." Chomsky adds: "Free institu-
tions certainly exist, but a tradition of 
passivity and conformism restricts their 
use-a cynic might say this is why they 
continue to exist." 

Though radicals often condemn Ameri-
can society by juxtaposing the "traditional 
American virtues" of respect for demo-
cratic procedure with current breaches of 
those procedures, it seems probable that 
historically American justice was at least 
as pockmarked as it is today and that the 
lower-middle-class virtues are the real 
"traditional" supports that Tocqueville 
observed when he came to see how Ameri-
can democracy functioned. 

These virtues-law and order morality, 
acceptance of authority, cognitive pro-
cesses that present issues in broad terms, 
ego defenses that prefer the violence of 
hockey to the savagery of the seminar 
table-undoubtedly play a part in whatever 
orderliness there is in daily American 
life. They help people accept and carry 
out decisions that affect them adversely. 
They help make football a high-salience 
issue and foreign affairs a low-salience 
issue, leaving the President, who should 
be in a better position to decide, a good 
ideal of freedom from mass pressures. 

In a number of ways, one could argue, 
they account for what is good as well as 
bad in American life. Conversely, elite 
virtues may account for more of the bad 
aspects of American life than is usually 
assumed. 

Some upper-class radicals, we suggested 
above, are able to assume that elite virtues 
are preferable to lower-middle-class 
virtues across the board because they un-
consciously restrict their idea of who 
should practice these virtues and to what 
end. Radical students and ghetto blacks, 
within limits, are the groups from whom 
these people expect a moral-principle 
orientation rather than law-and-order 
morality. Blacks and students are ex-
pected to practice scepticism toward 
authority. If, on the other hand, the 
colonels, the police, teamsters, longshore-
men or garbage collecters practice p~ 
longed scepticism toward constituted 
authority or act in accordance with their 
principles rather than in accordance with 
law-and-order morality, then the elite 
semi-radicals have a vague sense that 
something must be done. 

The upper class has reached a plateau 
of security from which its liberal-radical 
wing believes that it can mock the politics 
of the policeman and the butcher and 
slight their aspirations while still living 
genteely in the space between them. I re-
caJJ a personal example of how these 
assumptions sometimes work: 

**Title: Ill**
**Author: George Wald**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On Tuesday, March 4, over 1200 students and faculty 
fi·om the Cambridge community gathered in M.I.T.'s 
Kresge Auditorium to probe the uses and misuses of 
scientific research. The day seemed to plod on, and 
when Harvard biologist George Wald rose to speak, 
he met a shifting and restless crowd. George Wald, 
who won the 1968 Nobel Prize in physiology and 
medicine, is known among Harvard freshmen and 
sophomores as one of the best lecturers around. As 
Wald began his extemporaneous talk, his head arched 
back, and his eyes almost shut. The silence that per· 
meated the audience was broken only once by 
tremendous applause, and the end of his talk was 
met with a long standing ovation. 

The Boston Globe decided to reprint the entire text 
of the speech, calling it "the most important speech 
given in our time." 

The New Yorker reprinted the speech in Talk of 
the Town, omitting all cartoons from that section-
something that has not been done since Adlai 
Stevenson's eulogy. 

J ~~llof you know that ;n the last couple of 
•ears there has been student unrest, breaking at times 
'o violence, in many parts of the world: in England, 
rmany, Italy, Spain, Mexico, Japan and, needless 
., say, many parts of this country. There has been a 
gre•t deal of discussion as to what it all means. Per-
fectly clearly, it means something different in Mexico 
from what it does in France, and something different 
in France from what it does in Tokyo, and something 
different in Tokyo from what it does in this country. 
Yet, unless we are to assume that students have gone 
crazy all over the world or that they have just decided 
that it's the thing to do, it must have some common 
meaning. 

I don't need to go so far afield to look for that 
meaning. I am a teacher, and at Harvard I have a class 
of about three hundred and fifty students-men and 
women-most of them freshmen and sophomores. 
Over the past few years, I have felt increasingly that 
something is terribly wrong-and this year ever so 
much more than last. Something has gone sour in 
teaching and in learning. It's almost as though there 
were a widespread feeling that education has become 
irrelevant. 

A lecture is much more of a dialogue than many of 
you probably realize. As you lecture, you keep watch-
ing the faces, and information keeps coming back to 
you all the time. I began to feel, particularly this year, 
that I was missing much of what was coming back. I 
tried asking the students, but they didn't or couldn't 
help me very much. 

But I think I know what's the matter. I think that 
this whole generation of students is beset with a pro-
found uneasiness, and I don't think that they have yet 
quite defined its source. I think I understand the rea-
sons for their uneasiness even better than they do. 
What is more, I share their uneasiness. 

W. 
bothering those students? Somo of 
them tell you it's the Vietnam war. I think the Vietnam 
war is the most shameful episode in the whole of 
American history. The concept of war crimes is an 
American invention. We've committed many war 
crimes in-Vietnam; but I'll tell you something interest· 
ing about that. We were committing war crimes in 
World War II, before the Nuremberg trials were held 
and the principle of war crimes was stated. The sat· 
uration bombing of German cities was a war crime. 
Dropping those atomic bombs on Hiroshima and 
Nagasaki was a war crime. If we had lost the war, it 
might have been our leaders who had to answer for 
such actions. I've gone through all that hist_ory lately, 
and I find that there's a gimmick in it. It isn't written 
out, but I think we established it by precedent. That 
gimmick is that if one can allege that one is repelling 
or retaliating for an aggression, after that everything 
goes. 

And, you see, we are living_ in a world in which all 
wars are wars of defense. All War Departments are 
now Defense Departments. This is all part of the 
doubletalk of our time. The aggressor is always on 
the other side. I suppose this is why our ex·S~cretary 
of State Dean Rusk went to such pains to insist, as he 
still insists, that in Vietnam we are repelling an ag-
gression. And if that's w·hat we are doing-so runs the 
doctrine-everything goes. If the concept of war 
crimes is ever to mean anything, they will have to be 
defined as categories of acts, regardless of alleged 
provocation. But that isn't so now. 

I think we've lost that war, as a lot of other people 
think, too. The Vietnamese have a secret weapon. 
It's their willingness to die beyond our willingness to 
kill. In effect, they've been saying, You can kill us, 
but you'll have to kill a lot of us; y~u may have to kill 
all of us. And, thank heaven, we are not yet ready to 
do that. 

Yet we have come a long way toward it- far 
enough to sicken many Americans, far enough to 
sicken even our fig~ting men. Far enough so that our 
national symbols have gone sour. How t:nany of .you 
can sing about "the rockets' red glare, the bombs 
bursting in air" without thinking, Those are our 
bombs and our rockets, bursting over South Vietnam-
ese villages? When those words were written, we 
were a people struggling for freedom against oppres-
sion. Now we are supporting open or thinly disguised 
military dictatorships all over the world, helping 
them to control and repress peoples struggling for 
their freedom. 

But that Vietnam war, shameful and terrible as it is, 
seems to me only an immediate incident in a much 
larger and more stubborn situation. 

Part of my trouble with students is that almost all 
the students I teach were born after World War II. 
Just after World War II, a series of new and abnormal 
procedures came into American life. We regarded 
them ·at the time as temporary aberrations. We 
thought we would get back to normal American life 
someday. 

But those procedures have stayed with us now for 
more than twenty years, and those students of mine 
have never known anything else. They think those 
things are normal. They think that we've always had 
a Pentagon, that we have always had a big Army, 
and that we have always had a draft. But those are all 
new things in American life, and I think that they are 
incompatible with what America meant before. 

How many of you realize that iust before World 
War II the entire American Army, including the Air 
Corps, numbered a hundred. and thirty-nine thousand 
men? Then World War II started, but we weren't yet 
in it, and, seeing that there was great trouble in the 
world, we doubled this Army to two hundred and 
sixty-eight thousand men. Then, in World War II, it 
got to be eight million. And then World War II came 
to an end, and we prepared to go back to a peacetime 
Army, somewhat as the American Army had always 
been before. And, indeed, in 195o-you think about 
1950, our international commitments, the Cold War, 
the Truman Doctrine, and all the rest of it-in 1950, 
we got down to six hundred thousand men. 

Now we have three and half million men under 
arms: about six hundred thousand in Vietnam, about 
three hundred thousand more in "support areas" 
elsewhere in the Pacific, about two hundred and fifty 
thousand in Germany, and there ar~ a lot at home. 
Some months ago, we were told that three hundred 
thousand National Guardsmen and two hundred 
thousand reservists-so half a million men-had been 
specially trained for riot duty in the cities. 

I say the Vietnam war is just an immediate incident 
because as long as we keep that big an Army, it will 
always find things to do. If the Vietnam war stopped 
tomorrow, the chances are that wit~ that big a mili-
tary establishment we would be in another such 
adventure, abroad or at home before you knew it. 

lth;ng to do about the d••ft ;, not to ,.fo,m ;t 
but to get rid of it. 

A peacetime draft is the most un-American thing I 
know. All the time I was growing up, I was told about 
oppressive Central European countries and Russia, 
where young men were forced into the Army, and I 
was told what they did about it. They chopped off a 
finger or shot off a couple of toes or, better still, if 
they could manage it, they came to this country. And 
we understood that and sympathized and were glad 
to welcome them. 

Now, by present estimates, from four to six thou-
sand Americans of draft age have left this country for 
Canada, two .or three thousand more have gone to 
Europe, and it looks as though many more were pre· 
paring to emigrate. 

A few months ago I received a letter from the Har-
vard Alumni Bulletin posing a series of questions that 
students might ask a professor involving what to do 
about the draft. I was asked to write what I would tell 
those students. All I had to say to those students was 
this: If any of them had decided to evade the draft 
and asked my help, I would help him in any way I 
could. I would feel as I suppose members of the un· 
derground railway felt in pre-Civil War days, helping 
runaway slaves to get to Canada. It wasn't altogether 
a popular position then; but what do you think of it 
now? 

A bill to stop the draft was recently introduced in 
the Senate (S. 503), sponsored by a group of senators 
that ran the gamut from McGovern and Hatfield to 
Barry Goldwater. I hope it goes through; but any time 
I find that Barry Goldwater and I are in agreement, 
that makes me take another look. 

And indeed there are choices in getting rid of the 
draft. I think that when we get rid of the draft, we 
must also cut back the size of the armed forces. It 
seems to me that in peacetime a total of one million 
men is surely enough. If there is an argument for 
American military forces of more than one million 
men in peacetime, I should like to hear that argument 
debated. 

There is another thing being said closely connected 
with this: that to keep an adequate volunteer army, -


--- Page 11 ---

one would have to raise the pay considerably. That's 
said so positively and often that people believe it. I 
don't think it's true. 

The great bulk of our present armed forces are 
genuine volunteers. Among first-term enlistments, 
forty-nine percent are true volunteers. Another thirty 
percent are so-called "reluctant volunteers," persons 
who volunteer under pressure of the draft. Only 
twenty-one percent are draftees. All re-enlistments, 
of course, are true volunteers. 

So the great majority of our present armed forces 
are true volunteers. Whole services are composed 
entirely of volunteers: the Air Force for example, the 
Submarine Service, the Marines. That seems like proof 
to me that present pay rates are adequate. One must 
add that an Act of Congress in 1967 raised the base 
pay throughout the services in three installments, the 
third installment still to come, on April1, 1969. So 
it is hard to understand why we are being told that to 
maintain adequate armed services on a volunteer 
basis will require large increases in pay; they will 
cost an extra seventeen billion dollars per year. It 
seems plain to me that we can get all the armed forces 
we need as volunteers, and at present rates of pay. 

Yet there is something ever so much bigger and 
more important than the draft. That bigger thing, of 
course, is the militarization of our country. Ex-Presi-
dent Eisenhower, in his farewell address, warned us 
of what he called the military-industrial complex. I 
am sad to say that we must begin to think of it now as 
the military-industrial-labor-union complex. What 
happened under the plea of the Cold War was not 
alone that we built up the first big peacetime Army in 
our history but that we institutionalized it. We built, 
I suppose, the biggest government building in our 
history to run it, and we institutionalized it. 

I don't think we can live with the present military 
establishment and its eighty-billion-dollar-a-year 
budget and keep America anything like the America 
we have known in the past. It is corrupting the life of 
the whole country. It is buying up everything in sight: 
industries, banks, investors, scientists-and lately 
it seems also to have bought up the labor unions. 

I Defenoe Department ;, alway• b<oke, but 
some of the things it does with that eighty billion 
dollars a year would make Buck Rogers envious. For 
example, the Rocky Mountain Arsenal, on the out-
skirts of Denver, was manufacturing a deadly nerve 
poison on such a scale that there was a problem of 
waste disposal. Nothing daunted, the people there 
dug a tunnel two miles deep under Denver, into 
which they have injected so much poisoned water 
that, beginning a couple of years ago, Denver has 
experienced a series of earth tremors of increasing 
severity. Now there is grave fear of a major earth-
quake. An interesting debate is in progress as to 
whether Denver will be safer if that lake of poisoned 
water is removed or is left in place. 

Perhaps you have read also of those six thousand 
sheep that suddenly died in Skull Valley, Utah, killed 
by another nerve poison-a strange and, I believe, 
still unexplained accident, since the nearest testing 
seems to have been thirty miles away. 

As for Vietnam, the expenditure of firepower there 
has been frightening. Some of you may still remem-
ber Khe Sanh, a hamlet just south of the Demilitarized 
Zone, where a force of United States Marines was 
beleaguered for a time. During that period, we 
dropped on the perimeter of Khe Sanh more explo-
sives than fell on Japan throughout World War II, and 
more than fell on the whole of Europe during the 
years 1942 and 1943. 

One of the officers there was quoted as having said 
afterward, 'It looks like the world caught smallpox 
and died." 

The only point of government is to safeguard and 
foster life. Our government has become preoccupied 
with death, with the busines.s of killing and being 
killed. So-called defense now absorbs sixty percent 
of the national budget, and about twelve percent of 
the Gross National Product. 

j ~~ 
l;voly debate;, beg;nn;ng aga;n on 
whether or not we should deploy antiballistic mis· 
siles, the ABM. I don't have to talk about them-every-
one else here is doing that. But I should like to 
mention a curious circumstance. In September, 1967, 
or about a year and a half ago, we had a meeting of 
M.I.T. and Harvard people, including experts on 
these matters, to talk about whether anything could 
be done to block the Sentinel system-the deployment 
of ABMs. Everyone present thought them undesirable 
but a few of the most knowledgeable persons took 
what seemed to be the practical view: "Why fight 
about a dead issue? It has been decided, the funds 
have been appropriated. Let's go from there." 

Well, fortunately, it's not a dead issue. 

An ABM is a nuclear weapon. It takes a nuclear 
weapon to stop a nuclear weapon. And our concern 
must be with the whole issue of nuclear weapons. 

There is an entire semantics ready to deal with the 
sort of thing I am about to say. It involves such 
phrases as "those are the facts of life." No-these are 
the facts of death. I don't accept them, and I advise 
you not to accept them. We are under repeated pres-
sure to accept things that are presented to us as 
settled-decisions that have been made. Always there 
is the thought: Let's go on from there. But this time 
we don't see how to go on. We will have to stick with 
these issues. 

We are told that the United States and Russia, 
between them, by now have stockpiled nuclear 
weapons of approximately the explosive power of 
fifteen tons of TNT for every man, woman and child 
on earth. And now it is suggested that we must make 
more. All very regrettable, of course, but "those are 
the facts of life." We really would like to disarm, but 
our new Secretary of Defense has made the ingenious 
proposal that now is the time to greatly increase our 
nuclear armaments, so that we can disarm from a 
position of strength. 

I think all of you know there is no adequate defense 
against massive nuclear attack. It is both easier and 
cheaper to circumvent any known nuclear-defense 
system than to provide it. It's all pretty crazy. At the 
very moment we talk of deploying ABMs, we are also 
building the MIRV, the weapon to circumvent ABMs. 
As far as I know, the most conservative estimates 
of the number of American who would be killed in a 
major nuclear attack, with everything working as well 
as can be hoped and all foreseeable precautions 
taken, run to about fifty million. We have become 
callous to gruesome statistics, and this seems at first 
to be only another gruesome statistic. You think, 
Bang!-and next morning, if you're still there, you 
read in the newspapers that fifty million people were 
killed. 

But that isn't the way it happens. When we killed 
close to two hundred thousand people with those 
first, little, old-fashioned uranium bombs that we 
dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, about the same 
number of persons were maimed, blinded, burned, 
poisoned and otherwise doomed. A lot of them took 
a long time to die. 

That's the way it would be. Not a bang and a cer-
tain number of corpses to bury, but a nation filled 
with millions of helpless, maimed, tortured and 
doomed persons, and the survivors huddled with 
their families in shelters, with guns ready to fight off 
their neighbors trying to get some uncontaminated 
food and water. 

A few months ago, Senator Richard Russell, of 
Georgia, ended a speech in the Senate with the words 
"If we have to start over again with another Adam 
and Eve, I want them to be Americans; and I want 
them on this continent and not in Europe." That was 
a United States senator making a patriotic speech. 
Well, here is a Nobel laureate who thinks that those 
words are criminally insane. 

How real is the threat of full-scale nuclear war? I 
have my own very inexpert idea, but, realizing how 
little I know and fearful that I may be a little paranoid 
on this subject, I take every opportunity to ask re-
puted experts. I asked that question of a distinguished 
professor of government at Harvard about a month 
ago. I asked him what sort of odds he would lay on 
the possibility of full-scale nuclear war within the 
foreseeable future. "Oh," he said comfortably, "I 
think I can give you a pretty good answer to that 
question. I estimate the probability of full-scale nu-
clear war, provided that the situation remains about 
as it is now, at two percent per year." Anybody can do 
the simple calculation that shows that two percent per 
year means that chance of having that full-scale nu-
clear war by 1990 is about one in three, and by 2000 
it is about fifty-fifty. 

M 
tMnk I know what ;, bothering tho otudonh. I 
think that what we are up against is a generation 
that is by no means sure that it has a future. 

I am growing old, and my future, so to speak, is 
already behind me. But there are those students of 
mine, who are in my mind always; and there are my 
children, the youngest of them now seven and nine, 
whose future is infinitely more precious to me than 
my own. So it isn't just their generation; it's mine, too. 
We're all in it together. 

Are we to have a chance to live? We don't ask for 
prosperity or security. Only for a reasonable chance 
to live, to work out our destiny in peace and decency. 
Not to go down in history as the apocalyptic gen· 
eration. 

And it isn't only nuclear war. Another overwhelm-
ing threat is in the population explosion. That has 
not yet even begun to come under control. There is 
every indication that the world population will double 
before the year 2000, and there is widespre•d ex-
pectation of famine on an unprecedented sc•le in 
many p~rts of the world. The experts tend to differ 
only in their estimates of when those famines will 
begin. Some think by 1980; others think they can be 
staved off until 1990; very few expect th•t they will 
not occur by the year 2000. 


--- Page 12 ---

That is the problem. Unless we can be surer than 
we now are that this gener11tion has a future, nothing 
else matters. It's not good enough to give it tender, 
loving care, to supply it with bre11kfast foods, to buy 
it expensive educ11tions. Those things don't mean any-
thing unless this generation h111 11 future. And we're 
not sure that it does. 

I don't think that there 11re problems of youth, or 
student problems. All the re11l problems I know about 
11re grown-up problems. 

'-P• you wUI th;nk me eltogethe• ebsunl, 
or "academic," or hopelessly innoce nt- that is, until 
you think of the 11lternatives-if I s11y, as I do to you 
now: We have to get rid of those nuclear we11pons. 
There is nothing worth h11ving that can be obt11ined 
by nuclear war-nothing m11terial or ideological-no 
tr•ditlon that it c11n defend. It is utte rly self-defeating. 
Those atomic bombs represent 11n unusable weapon. 
The only use for an 11tomic bomb is to keep some-
body else from using one. It can give us no protection, 
only the doubtful s11tisfaction of retaliation. Nuclear 
we11pons offer us nothing but 11 bal11nce of terror, and 
a b11lance of terror is still terror. 

We have h11ve to get rid of those atomic weapons, 
here and everywhere. We c11nno~ live with them. 

I think we've reached a point of great decision, not 
just for our nation, not only for all humanity, but for 
life upon the e11rth. I tell my students, with a feeling 
of pride that I hope they will share, that the carbon, 
nitrogen, and oxygen that m11ke up ninety-nine per 
cent of our living subst11nce were cooked in the 
deep interiors of e11rlier gener11tions of dying st~~rs. 
Gathe red up from the ends of the universe, over bil-
lions of years, eventu11lly they came to form, in part, 
the substance of our sun, its pl11nets, and ourselves. 
Three billion ye11rs ago, life 11rose upon the earth. It 
is the only life in the sol11r system. Many a star hilS 
since been born 11nd died. 

About two million ye•rs 11go, man appeared. He 
h11s become the domin•nt species on the e 11rth. All 
other living things, 11nimal 11nd plant, live by his 
suffer•nce. He is the custodi11n of life on e11rth 11nd 
in the solar system. It's 11 big responsibility. 

The thought th11t we're in competition with Rus-
sians or with Chinese is all11 mist•ke, and trivi11l. We 
are one species, with • world to win. There's life all 
over this universe, but the only life in the solar system 
is on earth, 11nd in the whole universe we 11re the 
only men. 

Our business is with life, not de•th. Our ch11llenge 
is to give wh11t account we c11n of wh11t becomes of 
life in the sol11r system, this comer of the universe 
th11t is our home; 11nd, most of all, what becomes of 
men-all men, of all nations, colors and creeds. This 
has become one world, a world for all men. It is only 
such a world that c11n now offer us life, and the 
chance to go on. 1f1111


Friday, April 1
Saturday, April 12
Tuesday, April 15
Wednesday, April 16
.Friday, April 18
Saturday, April 19
Tuesday, April 22
Michelangelo Antonioni's L'AVVENTURA (1959) 
Starring Monica Vitti 
Caused a riot at the Cannes Film Festival 

A COUNTESS FROM HONG KONG (1967) 
Directed by Charles Chaplin 
Starring Ma rron Brando and Sophia Loren 
Pa nned una nimously by Anglo-Ame rican c ritics 

J ean-Luc Godard's LES CARABINIERS (1963) 
New Haven Premiere. Probably De rniere. 

D. W. Griffith's TRUE HEART SUSIE (1919) 
D. W. stands for David Wark 

Francois Truttaut's THE 400 BLOWS (1959) 
With the new STOLEN KISSES lets you see Jean-Pie rre 
Leaud in lyric before a nd after 

FORT APACHE (1948) 
Ford, Wayne, Fonda ... 

Robert Bresson's PICKPOCKET (1959) 
Perhaps one of France's best



**Moynihan's Maximum Misunderstanding**
**Author: Michael Parenti**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
) 
13 I The New Journal I April13, 1969 
Moynjhan's 
• 
maxunum 
misunderstanding 
by Michael 
Parenti 
Daniel P. Moynihan, Maximum Feasible 
Misunderstanding; The Free Press, 218 
pages. 

One can discern in Daniel Patrick Moy-
nihan's Maximum Feasible Misunder-
standing the outlines of an old-fashioned 
morality drama. The villains in this history 
of the anti-poverty program are the "lib-
eral-radical reformers" who, Moynihan 
tells us, presume to know what ails society, 
and who superimpose their own values on 
the poor. How do they do this? By assum-
ing that the poor have the best understand-
ing of "their problems and accordingly 
should be given the power to make dec is-
s ions about it [sic]." If I understand Moy-
nihan, reformers who encourage the poor 
to determine their own destiny are exer-
cising an arrogant elitist directiveness! 

It is Moynihan's own view that only the 
established institutions can properly fight 
the war on poverty. (Yet he does not 
thereby consider himself guilty of elitist 
superimposition.) He believes the poor 
lack the virtues necessary for proper po-
litical participation. Their involvement 
tends to be a disruptive influence; further-
more, he says, "It may be that the poor 
are never 'ready' to assume power in an 
advanced society: the exercise of power in 
an effective manner is an ability acquired 
through apprenticeship and seasoning." 

I disagree. In my own direct contact with 
black communities in Newark, New York 
and New Haven, I have been impressed 
repeatedly by the leadership abilities dis-
played by various elements among the 
black poor. If in fact their endeavors and 
their dramatizations often prove futile, it 
is not because they lack skills and season-
ing but because they Jack power. 

Moynihan asserts that the ghetto resi-
dents were never particularly interested 
in the war on poverty; he cites the light 
turnout for the various community board 
elections as evidence of apathy. But one 
striking characteristic of the dispossessed 
is their understandable suspicion that the 
ballot box rarely brings changes in their 
life conditions and that those who accede 
to office have little regard for their plight. 
Their electoral non-participation, then, is 
born more often of defeatism and cyni-
cism than of apathy. Writing in 1968 as 
if the riots of 1967 had never occurred, 
Moynihan has yet to learn the difference 
between apathy and alienation. 

Nowhere in Maximum Feasible Misun-
derstanding do the poor themselves make 
an appearance. Their views, hopes and 
grievances are never once heard, and no 
attention is given to the problems they 
face. To conclude that Moynihan pos-
sesses, at best, only a limited second-hand 
understanding of the world of the black 
poor is inevitable. He ignores the ample 
evidence unearthed by investigators like 
Studs Terkel and Paul Jacobs, who point 
out that most black families are headed 
by hard-working, self-respecting, respon-
sible parents who Jove and care for their 
children and who are victimized not by a 
lack of proper "motivation" but by long 
work hours, substandard wages, under-
employment, job discrimination, deterio-
rating housing conditions, rent-gorging 
landlords, shoddy overpriced goods, police 
brutality, a punitive and degrading welfare 
system, lack of recreational facilities, and 
abominable schools and hospitals. In 
Michael Parenti is a political scientist and 
author of The Anti-Communist Impulse, 
which will be published by Random House 
this fall. 
short, the major causes of their misery and 
low morale can be found in the mistreat-
ment and exploitation accorded them by 
the socio-economic system. 

Moynihan has nothing to say about 
systemic injustices; rather, he seems to fall 
back on those fanciful studies which con-
clude that "the sources of gang delin-
quency lie in the early socialization of 
male children in a lower class matriarchal 
home." He prefers the earlier Mobilization 
for Youth (MFY) program which was "a 
promising device" to "solve the private 
difficulties" of youth. For him it is not the 
system, but the victims of the system that 
need to shape up. 

If trouble comes to the system, it must 
be because outside agitators, in this case 
"OEO guerillas," "ADA intellectuals" and 
"MFY theorists," arouse the placid poor, 
hoping to throw America "into the kind of 
chaos out of which revolutionary situa-
tions are made." Sounding not so very 
unlike George Wallace, he alludes to "the 
various forms of public disorder either 
sanctioned, induced or Jed by middle-class 
liberal-radicals," a statement that will 
come as a surprise to the ghetto blacks 
who had no idea whitey was behind all the 
arson and looting. 

In Maximum Feasible Misunderstand-
ing Moynihan has the unbecoming habit 
of caricaturing other people's motives, 
thereby avoiding the necessity of having 
to confront their arguments. The MFY 
dedication to lower-class participation, for 
example, is at one point sarcastically dis-
missed as a product of the "changing fash-
ion in ideas," "the 'thing' for the 1960s." 

In one curious outburst he charges: "So-
cial scientists love poor people. They also 
get along fine with rich people. (Not a few 
are wealthy themselves, or married to 
heiresses .... ) But, alas, they do not have 
much time for the people in between ... 
[and] little sympathy with the de~ ire for 
order, and anxiety about change, that are 
commonly enough encountered among 
working-class and lower-middle-class per-
sons." As if this were not enough, he 
claims there exists a rich-poor conspiracy 
against the virtuous lower-middle strata, 
an "elite-proletat :an axis" with elite jour-
nalists controlli. g the mass media and 
propagating "th., romanticization of the 
proletariat." 

The only sub .. tantive programmatic 
suggestion he proffers in this book betrays 
his own maximum misunderstanding of 
ghetto sentimen•s. Why, he asks with all 
apparent seriou~ness, were poverty funds 
not used to "support and expand the ac-
tivities of the small fundamentalist 
churches of the Negro community and the 
Pentacostal sects of the Puerto Ricans?" 
After aU, these are the only truly indigen-
ous slum institutions. Is it that "hymn-
shouting and bible-thumping somehow 
does not elicit in the fancies of the white 
radical quite the same fascinations as does 
the black demi-monde?" Mmm, yes, Pat, 
that must be it. 

Moynihan cannot understand why any-
one might think that the established politi-
cal organizations "were somehow not 
meeting the needs of the people." He does 
not realize that slum dwellers do not share 
his highly romanticized and largely inac-
curate picture of the beneficence of Tam-
many Hall. He himself points out that 
machine politicians like Daley of Chicago 
and Addonizio of Newark used every pres-
sure at their command to prevent the poor 
from controUing community programs. 
But he never suggests that the political 
bosses exercise some of the seasoned flex-


--- Page 14 ---

ibility and restraint which he demands of 
the poor. Once more his sympathies are 
with the victimizers rather than the vic-
tims. If City HaJI acts with power-hungry, 
bullying intent toward the protestors, well, 
that's the name of the game. One should 
"not complain when bashed," and the agi-
tators have only themselves to blame 
"when the animal defended itself." "The 
Left has much to answer for in American 
life," he admonishes, "and not least for 
having brought about a too ready rejection 
by men of the center of any assertion of 
proletarian cohesion and purpose." Less 
agile minds would think that the men of 
the center might occasionally be made to 
answer for their own behavior.Indeed, the 
poor can be held accountable because they 
are weak, but how do we hold the estab-
lished institutional power-wielders respon-
sible for their actions? 

Moynihan evades other questions: How 
do the powerless effect changes in a sys-
tem that responds only to power? And how 
do they achieve power when they are de-
nied access to the resources that determine 
power? He seems to imply that there is a 
non-political, non-controversial, techno-
cratic way of reallocating resources and 
bringing about substantive changes, but he 
does not reveal what it is or how it might 
be effected. His real concern seems to be 
that others be kept from causing conflict 
within the system. 

So Daniel Patrick Moynihan once more 
shows himself to be the well-publicized 
social critic who manages never to antago-
nize those who preside over the corporate, 
financial , educational and political institu-
tions of our nation. Maximum Feasible 
Misunderstanding does not live up to the 
pre-publication attention it received. Writ-
ten in a hurried, evasive style, it offers a 
superficial and essentially second-hand 
account-much of it taken from the New 
York Times-of the origin and outcome of 
the anti-poverty program. According 
to the author, the poverty program was 
planned in confusion and soon became the 
captive of those who used the "maximum 
feasible participation" clause to lead the 
poor into fruitless confrontations with the 
powers that be. The end result was a defeat 
for the war on poverty. 

In a recent article Marilyn Mercer 
noted that the educated money in Wash-
ington thinks that fighting-liberal-intellec-
tual Pat Moynihan will not last more than 
six months with the Nixon Administra-
tion. My money says Dick and Pat will 
get along beautifully. filii'


**Opera**
**Author: Paul Goldberger**
**Page number(s): 14**

continued from page 2 
Opera 

The ordeal of obtaining tickets to the 
Metropolitan Opera in New York is one 
that many Yalies go through several times 
a year: writing for tickets, having the 
check returned with a "sorry, sold out" 
note, then going down to Lincoln Center 
to wait in line for hours to obtain some 
of the precious few tickets reserved for 
box office sale. 

Things may be easier next year. A group 
of students is presently working with the 
Met to reconstitute the Yale Opera So-
ciety, which until its demise about ten 
years ago owned a box of eight seats in 
the opera house. The society, beginning 
in September, plans to reserve a similar 
box for either ten or twenty performances 
spread throughout the season. It will then 
operate as a ticket service, reselling the 
total of 80 or 160 seats to members. 

Membership will be open to all Yale 
College students, graduate students and 
faculty members. A modest registration 
fee will be charged to cover administrative 
expenses; seats will then be sold at box 
office prices. Members will receiv~ the 
season schedule in September and will 
draw lots for ticket preference if the 
demand for one particular opera exceeds 
the society's ticket supply. 

The box will probably be secured for 
Saturday m atinee performances. Final 
choice o(day, however, and the number of 
performances will be arranged with the 
Metropolitan depending upon the size of 
the society's membership. So that this de-
mand can be determined and final arrange-
ments made before the Met's late-April 
deadline, it is asked that all those con-
sidering membership write immediately 
to Yale Opera Society, c/o Box 11, Yale 
Station. Each potential member should 
indicate preference for matinee or evening 
performances and include an estimate of 
the number of performances he is inter-
ested in attending. 

Depending upon the location of the box, 
and whether society members request a 
matinee or an evening opera series, ticket 
prices will range from $1 1.50 to $13.50. 



**Flying Saucer**
**Author: Mike Deasy**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Flying Saucer 

Two old books, a new book, a band-
painted tie from Rosenberg's, some 
French term papers, a track shoe, a shoe 
horn-all stuffed in a large brown paper 
grocery bag. Of course we weren't ex-
pecting any success; nevertheless our 
intent was to set out from the Old Campus 
to barter them for two movie tickets. We 
were indulging in a bit of deviance for a 
course of the same name given by the 
sociology department. 

"Two tickets?" In the middle of her 
life, the lady at Loew's greets patrons with 
pointed nose and cold stare. She gave us 
two tickets and we gave her the necktie. 
She said "That'll be two dolJars," and we 
said "Wouldn't you like Roger Bannister's 
track shoe?" 

"Don't bother me," she countered as 
she cautiously closed the money bole in 
the glass window. "Go next door to the 
College Street Cinema." 

"But 1 don't think I can do this." She 
was young, blond-pretty, confused and 
indeed embarassed. "People like you? 
What are you doing this for?" 

"To see the show," we responded. She 
stared for a while before taking up the 
phone to caJJ the manager. There are two 
students here, she was saying, and they 
seem to have a "misunderstanding." 

When she had finally shunted responsibil-
ity for us from her~lf to the unseen man-
ager, her manner was distinctly more 
relaxed. 

"Will you wait? The manager will be 
here in a moment." We asked if she were 
a student, for we had some excellent term 
papers to trade. No, she wasn't a student. 
And her friends, the ticket-taker and the 
popcorn girl who were now peering at us 
from behind the corner awaiting the 
confrontation, were they students? No, 
and they couldn't read French. By this 
time the manager and his lackey were ap-
proaching with a gait that told us we would 
lose. We left. 

The Crown Street Theater we expected 
to be somewhat more understanding. 

"These are valuable to you and maybe 
to me, but I have no right to accept these 


--- Page 15 ---

things. It isn't my theatre and the owner 
is away." As she said this the ticket lady 
nestled the phone in her breast cleft. De-
prived of ownership, she realized she was 
forced to deal with us through the im-
personal exchange of money. We were 
thinking she might make a good incipient 
Marxist when we heard her resume her 
telephone conversation as we walked 
away: "Now you know what I have to 
deal with in this weird neighborhood. Did 
you hear that?" 

Across the lonely, wind-swept reaches 
of the Oak Street Connector we journeyed 
to the last outpost of impropiety, there-
cently-renovated Princess Theatre, which 
symbolically stands next to the HiJI Re-
development Office on Davenport Avenue. 
On the way, however, across from the 
Child Study Center, we noticed a plain 
storefront added to the white frame house 
of the 1880s, typical for that part of the 
Hill. In front, the unobtrusive sign read 
"Mideastern-American Food." The 
Samera Restaurant. We went up to the 
wooden porch and, with a common hint 
of understanding, opened the door. 

On the left was a dimly lit dining room 
closed off for the afternoon. On the right 
was a small luncheon counter, diminutive 
even for the small room. Behind the 
counter stood a short, square body dressed 
in culinary white and a face squared by 
grizzled hair. 

"So what you want, boys?" 

"We hear you barter in the Mideast." 

"Ah, yes, we still do that there, but not 
here in this country." 

"We couldn't trade for some food?" 

"As I say, we don't barter here in the 
United States-" already, though, he had 
reached for one of my books, "-but what 
do you have?" 

I quickly put into his hand a volume of 
Josephus: Boston, 1823. "This is a history 
of the Jews written in the First Century 
A.D.," I began to explain as he pored over 
the date and the engravings. 

"I am not a Jew, but we read the Scrip-
ture too, you know. What do you want 
for it?" Short pause. 

"A salad?" 

"Good. And what's this?" He was al-
ready paging through Mark Twain, an 
1897 edition. "I think I will take this too." 

He then turned to my friend, who was 
searching through the bag to produce the 
new book, Mathematics, Computers and 
Soviet Economy. "I will take this too, and 
for these three books what do you want?" 

But before we could answer, "I will give 
you each a flying saucer and a salad," he 
said hurriedly. (As the Italians have sub-
marines, he later explained, he has flying 
saucers.) 

"And Arab bread and that dip that goes 
with it?" I asked meekly. 

"That too." 

Shia was his name, a variant of Isaiah. 
Sam Shia. He was a lover of books, he ex-
plained as we dipped the saucer-shaped 
bread into a thick vegetable oil. His grand-
father had translated manuscripts for 
_Schliemann of Troy. The salad was filled 
with chopped mint. 

"I was born in Mesopotamia, but later 
my family moved to Lebanon." He spoke 
of the persecution of his Christian family 
by the Kurds of the northeastern high-
lands. Ne~ertheless, despite his move to 
Lebanon and later to the United States, 
he was still Syrian. Our teeth, meanwhile, 
were tearing at the be.ef and lamb that 
was mashed and packed together with 
spices and tucked into the bread. 

Sam had other customers as well but 
took care to sit and talk when time al-
lowed. Retsina wine he did not have-no 
license- but coffee, milk, coke he did have. 
And did we want dessert? We declined; 
it was mid-afternoon and the Yale lunch 
was too much with us. As we rose to leave 
he promised a full dinner if we brought 
our own wine. 


**Classifieds**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 15**

Classifieds 

20¢per word 

Ads may be mailed to: Classifieds, The New 
Journal, 3432 Yale Station, New Haven, 
Connecticut, 06520. 

4,000 women applied for admission to Yale 
College, but who got in? The New York 
Times Magazine, Sunday, April13. 

News Leak of the Year: before a bank of 
television cameras Melvin Laird, our Secre-
tary of Defense, referred to the USSR as the 
Soviet Urine. 

LBJ's dwarf alter-ego is running for the 
democratic nomination for mayor of New 
York. 

"The Story of King Lear and His Daughters" 
by William Shakespeare, Nahum Tate and 
others will be performed by the Silliman 
Dramat Thursday through Saturday at 8:30, 
Matinee Saturday at 2:30. Attic over entry-
way "L". Admission free. 

To readers: please read the above classified. 
Thanks-The Silliman Dramat. 

Sterling conversation and even more prococa-
tive bathrooms: Ham and Eggs, 71st and 
Columbus. 

Need lift to Kansas. May 28-29. 562-4536. 
Faith Nickel. 

WDDIM? 

Annual Brandeis Book Sale: texts, novels, 
plays, poetry, etc. Sunday, April 13th-April 
2th. 32 Whitney A venue, 10 AM- 5PM 

Custom-made sandals, moccasins, etc. 1335 
Chapel St. 

France, have a gary merry Christmas, S.S. 

Desired: Personable, talented, young female 
singer for summer work .... 772-1729 
PMCC


**Under Milk Wood**
**Author: Dylan Thomas**

Ken Jenkins and Jerome Raphel in "Under Milk Wood"· Photo: Maurice Breslow 
OO~[ID[g[Ri ~~[L~ W®®OO 
BY DYLAN THOMAS 
Aprii4-April26, 1969 

The play, written in lyric prose, concerns the impressions of residents 
of Llareggub, a Welsh Village situated under Milk Wood, on a day in 
spring. The play is· considered a landmark in modern drama for it remains 
one of the few truly successful poetic theatre masterpieces of the twenti-
eth .century. 

222 Sargent Drive, New Haven. Exit 46, Connecticut Turnpike 
Tickets available NOW at Yale Co-op 
Long Wharf Theatre box oHice: 787-4282


**Title: April22 A Gathering of Poets**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
April22 
A Gathering 
of 0 
s 
llponoOt-.l by tile Yale Uni--'IY Pr-
-C.-Collage 
with poete ..--by DudleY Fl"• 
•YolaY--Poets 
1ft,-...- ~a 
with at..,ley Kunltz, 
M- -rolf. 
Oeollfrey Hartmen 
R. w. a. ~. Louis M41ttz. 
--14'*--


**Title: THE HILLHOUSE BOOM**

THE HILLHOlJSE BOOM 
top (12th Floor) Kline Biology Tower 
Lunch & Dinner 
Special $1.75 dinner every night 
Also nightly 
Steaks 
Roast Beef 
Shrimp Benjamin 
Shish-ka-bob 
Chicken Livers Saut e 
Sandwiches 
And much, much more. 
cafeteria 9 -1:30 
dinner 5:30-7:30


**Title: Discuss· on Reading**

Discuss· on 
Reading 
All the particopants will --Ilona 
2:30 pm FOMd t..ow.oa Call>oun College 
George 
Starbuck 
Peter 
Davison 
Judith 
Sherwin 
Jl>dith SM<win 
1-YalaYO<Ifl9e< Poet 
4:30 pm Fe>o<d Lounge Calhoun Cot'-
Sandra 
. Hochman 
Helen 
Chasin 
• 
ven1ng 
lnfOtm .. r.e<tinga and conw-efuttOn 
ral,....,_,ta -
muolc: 
t pm M .. t..-s HouM Calhoun Coli-
James Tate 
Alan Dugan 

