Publication date: October 2005
Volume: 38
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Matt Baron
- Editor-in-Chief: Romy Drucker
- Managing Editors: Concha Mendoza, Adriane Quinlan
- Designer: Sara Schneider
- Associate Publisher: Natasha Kim
- Photography Editor: Erica Deahl
- Senior Editors: Paige Austin, Sarah Taskow
- Production Manager: Mina Kimes
- Research Director: Helen Eckinger
- Associate Editor: David Zax
- Web Editor: Jonny Dach
- Circulation and Subscription Managers: Anna Altman
- Staff: Emily Koh, Julia Elizabeth St. V1etot, Ivy Wang, Lane Emily Kopley, Gabriel Diaz
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Laura Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou, FJ Lily Bazelcm, Anson M Beard, Jr. Blaire Bennett, Edward B. Bennett, Richard Blow, Martha Brant, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M Clark, Constance Clement, Elisha Cooper, Peter B Cooper, Andy Court, Masi Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin David Grynberg, Tom Griggs, Stephen HeDman, Jane Kamensky, Brooks Kelley, Roger Lewis E. Lebreton, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H Newman, Sean O'Brien, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Smart Rohrer and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W Hampton Sides, Lisa Elizabeth and William Sledge, Adina and David Slifka, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Daniel Yergin and Angela Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Democracy in New Haven - Sarah Laskow
- Students Without Borders - Paige Austin
- The Opening Shots - Romy Drucker
- Listening Through Walls - Gabriel Diaz
- Points of Departure - 
- Shots in the Dark - 
- The Critical Eye: The Quarterlife Crisis - Helen Eckinger
- Essay: The Naked Man - Jon Hood
- Endnote: In Good Company - Zvika Krieger


**Title: Democracy in New Haven**
**Author: Sarah Laskow**
**Page number(s): 12**


Rebecca Livengood will win Ward 1 and how it will change her life.


**Title: Students Without Borders**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 15**


The challenge of study abroad pulls students outside their comfort zones.



**Title: The Opening Shots**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 24**


Cinema at the Whitney sets the scene.
Starring Romy Drucker as The Reporter


**Title: Listening Through Walls**
**Author: Gabriel Diaz**
**Page number(s): 26**


Yale fine-tunes its conception of hearing impairment.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:**
**Page number(s): 32**



**Title: Shots in the Dark**
**Page number(s): 37**



**Title: The Critical Eye: The Quarterlife Crisis**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 41**



**Title: Essay: The Naked Man**
**Author: Jon Hood**
**Page number(s): 44**



**Title: Endnote: In Good Company**
**Author: Zvika Krieger**
**Page number(s): 46**



Correction: In volume 38 number 1, Rabbi Jason Rappoport's name was misspelled. The New Journal sincerely regrets this error.

THE NEW JOURNAL is published five times during the academic year by THE NEW JOURNAL at Yale, Inc., P.O. Box 3432 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. Office address: 305 Crown Street. Phone: 203.432.0520.

All contents copyright 2005 THE NEW JOURNAL at Yale, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written permission of the publisher and editor-in-chief is prohibited. While this magazine is published by Yale College students; Yale University is not responsible for its contents. Seven thousand five hundred of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community.

Subscriptions are available to those outside the area. Rates: One year, $18. Two years, $32. THE NEW JOURNAL is printed by Turley Publications, Palmer, MA; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman bookkeeping of New Haven. THE NEW JOURNAL encourages letters to the editor and comments on Yale and New Haven issues. Write to Editorials, P.O. Box 3432 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for publication must include address and signature. We reserve the right to edit all letters for publication.


**Crosslisting**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Crosslisting 
SAY YOU WRITE A BOOK. AND LET'S GO 
out on a lirnb--say it's a good book, a book 
chock full of clever theories and jaw-drop-
ping facts that people need to know or 
. 
. . 
study or even write about. Say you have 
already found a publisher 
no worries 
there 
and you're excited and a little bit 
scared as you prepare to bring your labor 
of love into the world. 
It might be time to face the fact that 
your book is useless. Sure, someone will 
read it cover to cover. your mother, defi-
nitely. Maybe your wife, possibly your col-
leagues. But for the most part, nobody is 
going to read your book. People are going 
to use your book. So you have to make it 
useful to the common reader, the kid who· 
wants to know who invented ice cream, or 
the guy who's digging around for a juicy 
quote on Virginia Woolf~s sex life. This 
person wants nothing more than a shortcut 
· to the heart of the matter. In other words, 
he wants an index. 
If you're publishing through Yale 
University Press, you might be sent to 
Jenya Weinreb after your book has been 
typeset. She runs the indexing departrnent 
from a tiny, glass-fronted office that over-
looks the press's vast, wood-paneled main 
editing room. Above her desk is a shelf of 
recent Yale publications 
a reference book 
on breast cancer, an encyclop·edia of 
ew 
England 
and .a neatly-typed list of the 17 
4 
freelance indexers who comprise her "sta-
ble." Although in the . standard book con-
tract the author is responsible for making 
and paying for the index, Yale University 
Press always offers . a way · out. "If the 
author says, 'This sounds really onerous,' 
we will hire the freelancer ourselves and bill 
the author," Weinreb explains with a grin. 
Indexing might be onerous, but it's 
nothing compared to what it was thirty 
years ago, when it required typing thou-
sands of key terms onto thousands of 
index cards and then arranging them by 
hand. Nowadays, the process is quite a bit 
simpler 
indexers use Microsoft Word and 
newfangled software like Indexicon to 
speed up the process of compilation and 
alphabetization. But Weinreb emphasizes 
that there is no substitute for the human 
touch in the early stages of the process. 
Typically, an indexer will read a given book 
at least. twice, circling, highlighting, and 
underlining words that are crucial to the 
meaning of the text. He has ·to keep a care-
ful eye ·out for references he'll combine 
into a document that is both comprehen-
sive and usable. This is particularly difficult 
since the index is typically the last part of 
the book to be completed; it needs to be 
spotless in about three weeks, one of the 
shortest turnaround times in the business. 
If you want to be an indexer, you can 
take a course 
Weinreb herself did years 
ago, for fun--<>r you can just plug away 
with brute determination and hope for the 
best a good reputation and a steady stream 
of jobs. Phil King, a soft-spoken YUP edi-
tor, knows this firsthand. He is one of the 
few full-time indexers to make the leap to 
an editing career, and he recounts his 
indexing days with an almost dreamy smile. 
'13asically word of mouth is eve 
· g 
in this business,'' he says. "I was a reporter 
at my college newspaper, and I was just 
shooting the breeze with someone I was 
interviewing, and he said he made indexes 
for books, and I thought, 13y Jesus, I want 
that job!"' For his first assignment, he con-
tinues, "someone desperate for an index 
sent me this really weird book about busi-
ness 
I never again did such a strange 
index. I got going from that I had one 
job on my reswne, and I started looking for 
other people who were desperate. It came 
naturally to me. Some people, I think, are 
just natural indexers, and some are not." 
A natural indexer, he and Weinreb agree, 
is detail-oriented, methodical, and curious, 
someone who doesn't wholly object to the 
idea of "toiling" alone at a computer, 
"type-type-typing all these words for days 
at a time." Most important, though, is a 
certain empathy, an ability to put yourself 
in the reader's place, and -pretend to know 
nothing about a book you've been poring 
over for weeks, to ask the questions a read-
er might ask or pinpoint the information 
that a casual browser might be looking for . 
· For all the type-type-typing types out 
there, the American Society of Indexers, 
Inc., provides an essential social and pro-
fessional community. It rnaintains a "Find 
an Indexer" database, hosts conferences 
with names like ''You Say Cookies, I Say 
Biscuits: 
Metadata 
and 
Controlled 
Vocabularies,'' and organizes get-togethers 
and peer review sessions (''No, we won't be 
sitting around peering at one another.") 
The society also tries to promote the art 
and science of indexing on a more philo-
sophical level. Boring and nitpicky though 
it may be, it's an important part of how we 
see the world. After all, civilization as we 
know it is organized around ... well, organi-
zation. Without a certain order, we don't 
know how to begin to make sense of 
things. The flip side of Phil King's belief 
that "a reader's needs are limited otily by 
your 
· 
' is, of course, that the 
indexer's job is precisely that: to limit a 
reader's needs, to boil a book down 
to a list. 
At the same time, when you're flipping 
through an index, these limits can feel mar-
velously enrichitlg. What a perfect distilla-
tion of the 1990s you get by browsing the 
index of Hi1lat y Clinton's autobiography, 
which juxtaposes terms like "Buddy (dog)," 
and ''budget deficit," "Stand By Your 
Man" and "Starr Kenneth 
leak and 
' 


**The Ikea Project**
**Author: Andrew Karlin**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Thtflkea Project 
ON SATURDAY, AMIDST TilE MADNESS OF 1HE 
first week of school, I convinced myself and 
my roommates to make the arduous· journey 
to IKEA (Yes, we thought we needed lamps 
called ''Attarp" and coffee tables called 
''Bankesta.") As we stumbled into the palatial 
store, we glanced at each other and cringed. 
Customers swarmed, descending upon 
IKEA as if it were the Dome of the Rock. 
IKEA devotees and the uninitiated alike pros-
trated themselves before the furniture, then 
embarked on a pi1gt image through a 
labyrinthine course that began at the "market-
place" and ended at the ''warehouse." Along 
the way, IKEA displayed 
floor 
models of their products like the icons in 
monasteries of Late Antiquity. Consumers are 
encouraged to examine the items in the 
rooms, wandering a preordained . course 
marked by large yellow and blue arrows com-
manding: "Goeth this way' or "Suffereth the 
penalty of degradation and the wrath of fire 
alarms." I was appalled by this new ortho-
doxy of consumerism. As the dizzying course 
snaked through the mammoth store, a land-
mark of blue and yellow Swedish pride, con-
verts became (somehow) even more chaotic 
and crazed. In the gruesome inner battle over 
marginal cost vs. marginal utility, the tension 
between a tight budget and a "vital" item, with 
each object they added to their carts, they 
October 2005 
seemed to bubble and tWitch. 
In order to gain temporary repose from 
the mass of consumers, I ducked into -a floor 
model that was slightly less packed than the 
others. I collapsed onto a black, cushioned 
couch in one of the rooms and was taken 
aback by how comfortable it was; I thought 
that perhaps I was the idiot for not joining the 
throng and p 
in the gospel. My gaze 
strayed from the flocks meandering by a 
bookshelf on my left I remarked to myself 
that it was an exquisite piece of furniture, one 
that I would very much like to purchase. But 
what struck me most was not the really cheap 
price but the books that IKEA displayed on 
that bookshel£ My gaze remained transfixed 
by a book with a glaring red cover, procJajrn-
ing in bold white letters, Gift Med ·En 
Kommunist, the Swedish translation of a title by 
Philip Roth. I scanned the rest of the book-
shelf, which contained tomes with tides such 
as, Mina tolv politiska ar: Fragmen~ minnesbi/derj 
drommar by Claes Anderson and Hjalmar 
Bergman's Herr von Hanck.en. 
I could only 
guess what those titles meant All the books 
on the shelf seemed political in nature, and I 
wondered what subtle, subliminal message 
IKEA was attempting to send. 
Feigning interest in· the bookshelf, I sig-
naled an IKEA employee to assist me. I 
pointed to some features of the bookshelf 
and asked him to explajn them. Then, as he 
joylessly elaborated on the sturdiness of this 
bookshelf and the quality of the wood, I 
intern;tpted him and pointed to the red book 
shouting the inscription Gift Med En 
Kommunist and asked him to delineate the 
meaning. The employee shrugged and 
responded flatly, ''Must have something to do 
with Communism." I pressed him further, 
asking why IKEA :was displaying political 
commentary on her bookshelves. The 
employee 
clearly unversed in his temple's 
secrets 
shrugged as if I had spoken in 
Swedish and answered, "How should I 
know?" 
So I did some research and inspected the 
rest of the floor models. All of the rooms 
with bookshelves contained books with polit-
ical subject matter, and the holy trinity of 
IKEA was Philip Roth, Theodor Kamfatides, 
and Claes Andersson. Back at school, as if 
possessed, 
I found that Gift Med En 
Kommunist is, in English, Roth's I Married a 
Communist. Written in 1998, it conveys the 
ambiance of late 1940s cominunism in 
America. Andersson, a distinguished Permo-
Swedish writer and psychiatrist, belongs to the 
People's Party of Finland; Kallifatides is a 
Greek philosopher whose views straddle 
postmoden•ism and communism. 
Was there a subliminal message here? I 
called IKEA and asked to speak to the gener-
al manager. After bobbing my head ad nause-
um to the bass beat of the muzak, I ended up 
...... ~ to Head of Public Relations. After I 
_:::: 
Picturep eifect living room· or socialist propaganda? 
5 


**Monkey Business**
**Author: Lily Wang**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Monkey Business 
FEW PEOPLE TODAY WOULD CLAIM 1HAT 
humans consistently make rational decisions. 
But this is exactly what traditional economics 
has assumed for over a hundred years. As a 
result, economists have ·long been unable to 
account for many of the irrational choices 
that people make. At the Capuchin Cognition 
Lab at Yale, a team of researchers led by Yale 
economist Keith Chen, is using monkeys to · 
expand the field's understanding of human 
behavior. They are attempting· to show that 
many of our irrational decisions are not just 
random deviations, but innate and encoded 
through evolution 
as tools for survival. 
Their first 
was the fanciful-sound-
ing job of teaching monkeys to use money. 
Capuchin monkeys are about the size of a 
dachshund They get their naine from the 
patch of black hair growing at the back of 
their head, which looks like a skullcap, or 
capuce in French. Eight capuchins live together 
at the lab in a large communal enclosure. Each 
is named after a James Bond character. 
There's Jill Masterson, Mayday, Holly 
Goodhead, Felix Leiter, Goldfinger, Nick 
Nack, and James Bond himsel£ Holly recent-
ly gave bird1 to the lab's newest addition, 
HugoDrax. 
The monkeys were given tokens to 
ex1 
for grapes, Jell-0, and bits of apple. 
But they soon became quite adept at using 
money in other siruations as well. ''Frequently 
you are deceived or bested by the monkeys;' 
said 
research 
assistant 
Venkat . 
I .akshminarayanan. According to David 
6 
Leiberman, an undergraduate who works at 
the lab, he has had to pay the monkeys to 
return tools he's accidentally dropped into 
their cage. They've been known to steal 
tokens from all but the most · · 
t experi-
menters. A recent New York Times article even 
reported an incident in which one monkey 
:!d money for sex, something that 
uni.ln. 
dismisses as a rumor. 
One common irrational behavior that . 
researchers have identified is "loss aversion." 
Loss aversion refers to the fact that we have a 
stronger desire to avoid a loss than to achieve 
a gain. Humans have been shown to be more . 
to avoid losing money we ahl:ady own 
than to obtain the same amount of money if 
it's not yet ours. According to Leiberman, '~ 
matter of word choice can dramatically alter 
people's decisions." How an option is present-
'ed can have an even stronger effect than its 
statistical merit. Loss averson poses a chal-
lenge to one of the most basic tenets of tra-
ditional economics: that we make rational 
choices based on predicted outcomes. 
Dr. Ch~n turned to monkeys to find .out 
whether our loss aversion was culttirally 
instilled or innate. Because monkeys have no 
prior experience with currency, the assump-
tion is that if they also show loss aversion, it 
must be genetic. The researchers gave each 
monkey 12 tokens and let them choose 
between "paying" one of· two 
· enters. 
The first experimenter displayed one apple 
cube. If paid, half the tim~ he would give the 
monkey one cube, the other half he would 
give it two cubes. The second experimenter 
displayed two cubes and, when paid, half the 
time would only give the monkey one cube, 
and the other half would give it two. In both 
cases, the monkey had an equal chance of 
receiving two cubes, but in the first scenario it 
appeared that a cube was being added, and the 
second that a. cube was being taken away. 
rnelelmingly the monkeys chose the first 
gamble. Like humans, monkeys have a 
stronger desire to avoid loss rather than to 
achieve gain, a finding which reveals loss aver-
sion to be innate. 
at the Capuchin 
Cognition Lab now think it could carry some 
sort of evolutionary advantage, although 
what that advantage might be is still unclear. 
Dr. Che•a and his team work in the new 
field of behavioral economics, which uses 
math to predict how people behave. But as 
Lakshminarayan 
it, 
his 
hands out to show the distance between the 
two, "You have a lxxly of math here and the 
world here." In traditional, neoclassical eco-
nomics, "to bring the two together you have 
to assume away all factors of a person's 
behavior until they're rational." By bringing 
psychology to the study of economics, one of 
the goals of behavioral economics is to map 
· out the irrational tendencies that lie outside of 
economics' understanding of human behav .. 
ior. He says, "If everyone shares a different 
preference from what economics predicts, 
then it's no longer just a blip on the radar." !t 
becomes a systematic deviation that ean be 
understood, predicted, and even ha messed. 
, •. : 
The fact that we're 
for loss aver-
sion helps explain the appeal of something 
like Bush's tax cuts. .By portraying the cuts as 
a way of allowing Americans to hold onto 
money that would otherwise have been taken 
away, Republicans tap into our primordial fear 
of loss. Behavioral economics tells us that the 
. logical rebuttal 
saying taxes ultimately bene-
fit citizens in the form of federal p 
can't compete. People are naturally more 
motivated by the fear of loss. 
Understanding why we make irrational 
choices can help us to make better decisions 
in the future. "Now that I'm aware of loss 
aversion;' 
said, ''I notice 
myself falling into it like constandy." 


**Rusted Wickets**
**Page number(s): 6**

Rusted Wickets 
IN THE DESK DRAWER OF CHRISTC>'PHER 
"Kit" Reed '55, an editor at Harvard 
Magazine, a mysterious object is gather-
ing dust. A pewter disc with a sphinx-
like head appeared in his mailbox more 
than five years ago accompanied by a 
note identifying it as the lid to the 
Harvard-Yale Croquet Cup. Purloined 
in 1991 by the roonunates of a Harvard 
Croquet player who had intended to 
ransom it off, the authors of the letter



**The Missing Lid**
**Author: Jonrry Dach**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
declared, "With the passage of time we 
have forgotten whom to ask, what to 
ask for, and where to send the demands. 
I hope you can return this object to its 
proper owner." 
· 
The Cup to which the lid belongs is 
the trophy historically awarded to the 
winner of the annual Harvard-Yale 
Croquet match. For 130 years, the 
Saturday before the big Thanksgiving 
game, Yale and Harvard have squared 
off on the football field. They spent the 
day avoiding the sweat of the gridiron 
and the fracas of the tailgate, dressed in 
white linen and engaged in a vicious yet 
civilized match of six-wicket croquet. 
This six-wicket, or "professional," 
croquet bears little resemblance to the 
game you once played in your grandpar-
ents' backyar.d. With six wickets and a 
stake spread across a 105x84 foot 
greensward, there is plenty of room for 
maneuvering 
a~.d executing precision 
shots. Throw in:. ··an opposing team 
- . 
doing their best, tf> k'~ock your ball out 
of the way and Wickets that are only 
two millimeters wider than that ball and 
you've got what Mark Reach '02, one-
time captain of the Yale Club Croquet 
Team, describes as a combination of 
billiards and chess: 
a game that 
demands physical skill and calculated 
strategy in equal proportion. In com-
parison, he says, any other variant of 
the sport is "like using chess pieces but 
playing checkers." 

At its peak, the Yale Club Croquet 
Team could use those chess pieces 
more adroitly than any other university 
team in the world. Its achievements 
include a 1991 World Championship, 
besting Oxford and Cambridge on their 
home turf, a decade of good showings 
at Nationals, and sweetest of all, a 
twelve-year winning streak against 
Harvard. Martha Bagwell '00, remem-
bers beating the Crimson "pretty much 
every chance we had." Asked if she 
remembered a missing lid, Bagnall said, 
"I don't remember the actual trophy 
itself I remember the glory. It was a 
. . 
big consolation in the years when we 
lost the football game." 

But by the time Kit Reed announced 
in Harvard Magazine that the lid had 
been located and would be handed over 
"to anyone in possession of the base of 
October 2005 
the Cup and plausible bona fides," few 
remembered that there had ever been a 
big game played without a football, let 
alone a lidless trophy awarded to one of 
the winners. The solace provided by 
those fondly-recalled victories on the 
croquet pitch disappeared just when 
Yale students, confronted with a four-
year losing streak on the football field, 
most needed the Croquet Cup to turn 
to in their grief for the club croquet 
team had unraveled completely in 
the 
'02-'03 
academic 
year. 
Tom 
Migdalski, who has directed club sports 
at Yale since 1984 and witnessed a 
remarkable increase in their number 
an·d vitality, explains that "The nature 
of club sports is that, like the tide, they 
ebb and flow with student interest from 
year to year." 

Bagnall agrees, arguing that the 
small size of the croquet team made it 
particularly vulnerable. "We had seven 
members at our peak; two or three 
graduated each year. It becomes a crap-
shoot all ove.r. again." When Bagnall 
joined the team in the fall of 1996, its 
only other members were another 
freshman and two seniors. But she has 
other theories regarding the program's 
dissolution, which Reach also men-
tioned: the vast amount of alcohol con-
sumed at every game, and the fact that, 
as Reach asserted, on the croquet team, 
"Everyone slept with everyone." 'cyou 
can't take yourself too seriously when 
you're playing croquet," Bagnall empha-
sized. "Maybe that's what led to its 
demise 
too much partying." 

But while Bagnall cites revelry, 
Reach blames the team's demise on ten-
sion and fatigue on the national circuit. 
As a freshman at the University of 
Virginia in the fall of 2000, croquet 
prodigy Jacques Fournier 
call~d a 
"boy wonder" · by the United States 
Croquet Association 
helped persuade 
the directors of the national champi-
onship to change the rulebook so that 
the game looked more like the kind of 
croquet he had excelled at in high 
school. Outraged, the Yale team decid-
ed to boycott the tournament. At the 
same time, their other hallmark match, 
the Harvard-Yale Game, was crumbling 
under the force of Cantab laziness. 
"Harvard," charges Reach, "just never 
wanted to play." He attributes this sloth 
to a lack of structure in what passed for 
their team, saying tha.t the Harvard 
squad was "not serious" 
basically they 
"sucked." Whatever its source, this apa-
thy left the Yale team devoid of major 
competitions, unless it sacrificed its 
principles and registered for the check-
er game at Nationals. With little to look 
forward to, Yale Club Croquet suc-
cumbed to the tide. So is Bulldog 
Croquet left for dead? 

Very possibly, though there is a 
good deal of chance in these matters. 
Should the team reemerge, as Migdalski 
believes is possible and as Reach and 
Bagnall hope, there is a dusty pewter 
circle awaiting its resurrection. Reed 
confirms that, unsmprisingly, "no one 
has picked up the lid." But, he says 
assuringly, "Don't worry. It's safe." 
-Jonrry Dach


**Theatrical Selection**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 8**

BEGIN AT YORK STREET AND BROADWAY 
in front of Off-Broadway Theater. Head 
down York and y~:m'll hit the University 
Theater. Take a left on Chapel and you'll 
pass the Yale Rep. If at this point you 
haven't quenched your _theatrical thirst, 
turn right on College towards the Shubert, 
then continue on the highway to Long 
Wharf. If New Haven's colony of theaters 
were the finches of the Galapagos Islands, 
the length and slope of their beaks would 
determine their chances for survivaL But 
the success of a theater's niche actually 
depends on such non-biological factors as 
ticket prices, facilities, and show bookings. 
One case study in this process of natural 
selection is the Shubert Theater. · 

Founded in 1914, the Shubert made its 
name with old-Hollywood glamour and 
grandeur. Originally a "try-out house" for 
shows headed to Broadway, the Shubert's 
brochure lauds it as the "Birthplace of the 
N arion's Greatest Hits," as well as . the 
stage that launched "many of the world's 
best and most popular actors." These sue~ 
cesses 
reasons for the Shubert to puff 
up its breast and preen its feathers-
include lv[y Fair Lacfy, A Streetcar Named 
Desire and stars like Marlon Brando and 
Katharine Hepburn that graced the stage. 
In a crowning acknowledgment of the 
Shubert's preeminence in the theater 
world, it was featured in the 19 50 cult 
movie All About Eve. But despite its gilded 
reputation 
and apparent Darwinian fit-
ness 
the theater was forced to close due 
to financial difficulties in the seventies. 

Rather than mourn the passing of its glory 
days, the Shubert reopened its renovated 
doors in 1984 with a fresh focus. This . 
time, the Shubert sought to adapt itself · 
into a socially ambitious, non-profit organ-
ization centered on the goal of providing 
greater theater access for the New 
Haven community. 

In 2001, the Shubert teamed with 
CAPA (Connecticut Association for the 
Performing Arts), a larger non-profit the-
ater organization with a branch in 
Columbus, Ohio. According to Anthony 
Lupinacci,_ the Shubert's Director . of 
Public Relations, "the transition was a pos-
itive one" thanks to the "larger buying 
power" CAPA provides. In the past four 
years, this financial support has been pri-
marily channeled into a broad range of 
programming tailored to the varied popu-
lation of New Haven. These choices range 
from popular musicals such as Rent'--
aimed at the University audience and mak-
ing a much-anticipated return in March-
to a set of shows intended to draw the 
Hispanic community. The "Caliente 
Series," includes Spanish-language con-
certs by artists such as Juanes and Yerba 
Buena as well as performances by the 
high-profile 
dance 
company 
Ballet 
Hispanico. 

Today, the Shubert's ticket prices are 
' arguably its most attractive feature. A 
Theatre Royal Bath production of As You 
Like It, a performance by the Connecticut 
Gay Men's Chorus, or an appearance by 
humorist David Sedaris can be viewed for 
the price of a movie ticket (plus pop-
corn) 
just $15 
but better seats, however 
can cost a more daunting $72. For some 
New Haveners, tickets are free. S.N.A.P. 
(Shubert Night at a Performance) distrib-
utes a yearly total of 700 theater tickets to 
senior citizens and families who would oth-
erwise be unable to attend a performance; 
while later this year, a Student Rush dis-
count will guarantee students half-price 
tickets two hours before a show. Another 
noteworthy community program entitled· 
Movin' 2 organizes workshops led by artists 
from the famed Pilobolus Dance Theatre 
Company for New Haven public schools. 

Since its reopening, the Shubert has 
not been preoccupied with trying to be the 
alpha theater. Last year, a joint venture 
entitled ''All New Haven's a Stage" merged 
the resources of the Shubert, Long Wharf, 
and Yale Rep to bring an abundance of 
Shakespeare performances to the city. 
Each theater presented a Shakespearean 
show during the season, while combined 
advertising and discounted ticket packages 
encouraged residents to enjoy the produc-
tions in any combination. 

Though the Shubert seems to have 
overcome its struggle with other New 
Haven theaters, it is now confronted with 
a new challenge specific to non-profit 
organizations 
a constant scramble for 
both individual and corporate funding. 
While the Shubert enjoys many loyal con-
tributors, Lupinacci admits that it is "a 
challenge each year to keep these corpora-
tions on board and to grow." 

No matter which niche the Shubert 
Theater nestles into, the other finches will 
be nipping at its f~athers. But as it contin-
ues to secure its nest, the Shubert's beak is 
long and gracefully curved. 
--,Nicole Allan



**Hip to be Square**
**Author: Karla Chien**
**Page number(s): 9**

LoUIS Cox, TI-IE OWNER OF C 
1, A 
clothing, skateboard, and vinyl toy store 
on State Street, is attending to an awk-
ward teenage boy wearing a vintage t-
shirt who appears to be asking nervous-
ly for a job. I can see how working for 
Lou would be the dream job for any 
teenager. 

Lou oozes cool. And the 
store speaks for itself. The art on the 
wall, the toys on the shelves, the projec-
tion of anime on a white wall .. .it's a lit-
tle New York, a little stree·t, a little 
hip hop. 

While I wait for Lou to tell the boy 
about the store, I curse myself for for-
getting to wear my edgiest dress. A few 
days ago, I read an article in which Lou 
described he clothes he sells as "hip-
ster," and t)ow I wish I had dressed 
the part. 

But Lou is' i~ci:edibly friendly. He 
tells me he wishes ·t,. had come a few 
" 
' ' 
days earlier when•T fould· have seen the 
latest exhibition, "Soul Brothers," fea-
turing the artwork of such famous graf-
fiti artists as Brat, Demo, Eros, and 
Sket. Their work hung around the store, 
forming an art show complementing 
the retail one. As Lou lists the various 
artists' names and attributes, I realize 
that I have absolutely no knowledge of 
this genre. 
My dress, even if I had 
paired it with funky earrings from 
Japan, would have gotten me nowhere 
fast. Apparently, there is an entire van-
guard of graffiti artists 
or, as Lou 
calls them, "legendary old dudes." 

Lou says graffiti is becoming "main-
stream:" "It reflects the largest cross-
segment of the market, reaching every 
day people, high brow, low brow." 

Graffiti has come a long way since it 
burst onto the streets and subways of 
Philadelphia and New York City. I, as a 
writer for an Ivy League magazine, am 
an illustration of that trend: coming 
face to face with graffiti art and think-
ing it's the new cool. I even purchase a 
t-shirt with a graffiti-inspired design for 
my younger brother, a member of his 
high school's concert band and Nexus 
game group, so that he too can be cool. 

Yet Lou's vision of Channel 1 is not 
merely about showing someone how to 
he a "hip individual," or how to say "I 
' 
cruise" and get nods of approval rather 
than laughs. Though Lou pulls this off, 
he is much more interested in creating a 
f usion of genres. He enjoys skating, 
snowboarding, clothes, graffiti, and 
toys. Channel 1 is his genetically 
enhanced brainchild. Art, he thinks, is 
the · center that holds everything togeth-
er: Everything in the store has an artis-
tic flair or design, most of it graffiti-
inspired. Lou is also collaborating with 
Cafe Nine, a club next door, to bring 
alternative musicians to New Haven, 
which has an art scene that Lou believes 
is burgeoning, especially in the Ninth 
Square district where his store is locat-
ed. The area reflects more of the 
"street art side of things." It's the place 
for "the guy sculpting the best whatev-
er in his garage. Smaller known guys 
are getting more talk." As Lou goes on, 
I like him more and more. He seems so 
genuine and down to earth, like some-
one all hipsters· aspire to be. If New 
Haven hipsters have an idol, it's proba-
bly Lou. 

Since I am a wannabe, it's not the 
artwork in Lou's store that piques my 
interest but rather the vinyl toys, partic-
ularly the "Eggsters." I really want to 
buy an Eggster 
each one is custom 
designed 
but I convince myself I will 
be wasting money on a plastic eggplant 
with a face. My favorite was designed by 
the graffiti artist Demo. Lou tells me 
that Demo tore up bits of vinyl and· 
pasted them on the Eggster to create a 
multi-colored, collage-like figure. The 
glow-in-the-dark Eggster might also be 
a nice addition to my bedside table. 

I leave the store knowing that I will 
come back for the upcoming free exhi-
bition. 
"Ratio 3/8" opened on 
September 30. "It's a vertical exhibi-
tion," Lou says, and offers further 
explanation because he can sense I do 
not know what a vertical exhibition is. 
The show will bring together twenty 
artists, each given an 8x32 inch panel 
with which he or she can "do whatev-
er." The artists' panels will be displayed 
side by side, creating a conglomerate 
piece of art. I imagine myself in a room 
full of graffiti artists and start to panic. 
I make a mental note to start planning 
my outfit, and to google Brat, Demo, 
Eros, and Sket before my next visit. 
-Karla Chien


**Neighborhood Watch**
**Author: (No author listed)**

THERE IS 
ONLY ONE REQUIREMENT 
imposed 
on 
all 
contributors 
to 
N ewhavenlndependent.org: "Be civil." 
The website, recently developed by 
former editor of The New Haven 
Advocate Paul Bass '82, resembles other 
news sites except that it· supplements 
its own coverage with comments from 
concerned citizens. The reporting , 
focuses exclusively on city issues and,



**Title: THE BooK**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
THE BooK, 
EET THE • 
Tuesday; October 25 at 6:00 pm 
JEROME 
EL, author of The Chosen: 
The Hidden History of Admissions at 
Harvard, Yale} and Princeton and the Shaping 
of an American Elite 
HAROLD BLOOM, author of Jesus and 
Yahweh: The Names Divine 
Thursday, October 27 at 6:00 Rm 
JOHN FRIEDMAN, author of The Secret 
Histories: Hidden Truths That Challenged the 
Past and Changed the World 
Tuesday, November 1 at 7:00 pm 
. 
MARK SINGER, author of CharacterS tudies: 
Encounters with the Curiousfy Obsessed 
SARAH SENTI I .I ES, author of Taught l!J 
America: A story of Stmggle and Hope in Compton 
J.R MoEHRJNGER, author of The T~ 
Bar: 
A Memoir 
For a Full Schedule of Events Visit 
WWW:Jalebookstore. com 
10 
77 Broadway, New Haven 
(203) 777-8440 
-


**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

with each new reader, becomes a 
more successful forum for commu-
nity discussion. 

The site claims to produce a nas-
cent form of journalism: "new 
news." The concept grew out of 
public dissatisfaction with tradition-
al news suppliers, long criticized for 
compromising journalistic ethics 
with their corporate agendas. The 
· site declares that "Power of the 
press now belongs not to those who 
own one, but to those who own a 
modem." 

With this in mind, Bass estab-
lished the Online Journalism Project, 
· which aims to develop online public 
news forums by financing websites 
run by freelancers committed to the 
return of "grassroots· news reporting 
vital to the health of a democracy." 
N ewhavenindependent.org is one 
such . site. Although available to a 
global readership, the site only fea-
tures local news. It's Your Town. ·Read 
Afl About It, is the tagline 
an 
encouragement· to city residents to 
keep tabs on what's happening in 
their backyard. 

Bass claims one of the site's 
objectives is to "c~>nnect the political 
landscape to the neighborhood." In 
an article entitled "Chen vs. The 
Machine, II," Bass covered the 
Democratic Primary for Alderman 
in Ward 2. The race between incum-
bent Joyce Chen and Gina Calder 
proved a contentious subject, pro-
voking a spirited online dialogue. Ed 
Mattison, an "aldermanic collegue" 
(sic) of Chen, was critical of her 
political record and did not support 
her re-election. He wrote, "I have 
always regarded [Bass's] enthusiam 
(sic) for [Chen] as an astonishing 
fantasy. The notion that she is some 
kind of reformer is absurd. 
How 
can she be a reformer when she 
doesn't show up at our meetings a 
good percentage of 
the 
time. 
Although she is a perfectly nice per-
son, I cannot remember once having 
a 
substantive conversation with 
her ... It isn't enough to talk about 
reform, it is necessary to do some-
thing about it." 

In response to this post; "true-
bluect" commended Chen, a former 
Green Party Member, for shaking up 
New Haven's staunchly Democratic 
political climate: "In the face of the 
Mayor's hegemony, who could hope 
that Joyce would make a real differ-
ence, except as bearing witness 
against those who have sold their 
souls ... Mr. Mattison can take his 
smear 
campaign 
and 
pray 
for 
Absolution. The one Party system is 
the problem, and God Bless all those 
who stand against it. Joyce Chen may 
be imperfect, but at least she is inde-
pendent of the power structure that 
chokes New Haven. What has Ed 
done for the people of New Haven 
(except hold the Mayor's cloak)." 

Such dialogue is missing from big 
media, but. is just what can be found 
in the much more .intimate "new 
news." Giving power of expression 
to the community removes th~ cor-· 
porate scrim between the public and 
the issues that impact them. In a ':::-
cover story for The New Haven · 
Advocate in early September, Bass 
wrote, "Local turf is too small for 
the media behemoths ... Yet local turf 
represents the future of American 
journalism, and of American civic 
society. Local journalism connects 
most directly to readers. It has the 
most potential to involve people in 
their communities and in the issues 
that affect their lives." 

A resident of New Haven since 
1978, Bass knows the city well. His 
brainchild should guarantee that 
anyone with "a computer, a modem, 
and talent" can get to know New 
Haven and help to shape it. In bring-
ing 
local 
politics 
to 
desktops 
throughout the city, Bass hopes to 
reignite civic interest, which places 
even more emphasis on the site's sin-
gle requirement. The site defines its 
intended audience as: "New Haven. 
Its neighborhoods. Its government. 
Its people 
from the knuckleheads 
to the dreamers and schemers, and 
everyone in between." He's talking 
about you. 
' 
-Emily Koh 



**Title: Yale Bookstore Events**
**Page number(s): 11**

J ONA 
B. TUCKER 
(BK· '75) . 
Tuesday, October 11 
Senior Research Fellow at the 
Center for Nonproliferation 
Studies, author of 
r 
Scourge: The Once and Future 
Tprearoj Smallpox. 

JACKI LYDEN 
Tuesday, November 1 
NPR correspondent and 
author of Daughter of the 
Queen of Sheba 

DAVID 
('84) 
Director, Ca1npus Progress 
Wednesday, October 19 
Carnpus Progess is the Center for 
American Progress's comprehensive 
effort to strengthen progressive 
voices on college and university 
car npuses nationwide and empower 
new generations of leaders. 

Thursday, 
November tO 
A Discussion 
of LGBT 
· Parenting 

DALE 
LQUIST 
Tuesday, Novetnber 8 
President and co-founder of 
the American Chesterton 
Society, and author of 
G.K Chesterton: The Apostle of 
Common Sense. 

EMILY 
Friday, Noventber 4 
President of the 
Metropolitan Museum 
of Art 

ROGERKE 
DY 
Wednesday, November 16 
•• 
Director Emeritus, the National 
Museutn of American History, 
Former Director, US National 
Park Service; author of Wildfire 
and Americans: How to Save Lives, 
Properry and Your Tax Dollars 

tnaster's teas held at 4 p.tn. in the 
Berkeley College Master's House 
October 2005 

11 



**Title: The Yale Debate**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Rebecca Livengood's delivery was as precise as her pearl earrings, starched blue shirt, and professional blazer. Her debate with Nick Shalek had begun pleasandy enough, with polite agreement on the importance of campus safety. But after winning the Democratic nomination for Ward 1 alder last spring, Livengood already knew that campaigning was not always pleasant.


Livengood and Shalek are vying for the Ward 1 seat on the Board of Aldermen, a position that represents most of Yale's campus and for the past twenty years has been held by a Yalie, consistently vaulting them into extremely successful careers. Tonight, both candidates are positioned to inspire the city and its voters, and perhaps change their own lives.  Although Livengood has only held the Ward 1 alder seat since August, when she inherited it from Ben Healey, her long history of organizing in New Haven has given her the force of incumbency. She focused on the advantages of those relationships with the New Haven unions, student-environmental groups, and city leaders as a strength of her candidacy, one that she defended her roots in the convoluted politics of New Haven. "I am proud of the relationships I have built," she insisted, her voice strong.


In his turn, Shalek insisted that he is the independent voice in the race for Ward 1 alder and a realistic representative for mainstream Yale, not an activist with knee-jerk leftist leanings. "I am a Yale student who thinks the University is fundamentally a great place," he explained. The top button of his shirt was undone and his sentences occasionally messy. His statistics, however, were sharp as he took the offensive on his favorite issue: creating jobs in New Haven. To hear him speak, it was as if Livengood had, in true activist fashion, spent her first month as Ward 1 alder lying in front of the bulldozers preparing to start construction on the Cancer Center until its projected jobs were unionized. For Shalek, any delay of the Cancer Center and the jobs it would bring to New Haven disturbed him on a professional as well as personal level. Two of his grandparents, he explained, died from cancer.


The audience's gaze turned to Livengood, as she rebutted: "Two of my grandparents also died of cancer." She clarified the three conditions she looked for in responsible development: secure jobs, health care benefits for workers, and environmental soundness. In the audience's gathering of representative campaign staffers, journalists, and Yale College Democrats, she would advance projects like the contentious Yale-New Haven Hospital Cancer Center. As a member of the pro-labor Undergraduate Organizing Committee (UOC) and a supporter of the graduate union GESO, Livengood is often berated for her ideology and idealism. While opponents often criticize Livengood's support of UOC and GESO, deriding it as unrealistic, starry-eyed idealism, Livengood's association with these groups has helped her forge close contacts with important players in city politics.  When the attacks were launched, she was ready. Sitting next to her opponent before the gathering of representative campaign staffers, journalists, and Yale College Democrats, she would advance projects like the contentious Yale-New Haven Hospital Cancer Center. As a member of the pro-labor Undergraduate Organizing Committee (UOC) and a supporter of the graduate union GESO, Livengood is often berated for her ideology and idealism.




**Leftist Idealism vs. Mainstream Realism**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ence, Helena Herring, one of her 
voter registration coordinators, nod-
ded along as · Livengood parried 
Shalek's lunges. On Monday, the 
• 
results of the debate were clear: 
Livengood had won the Dems' 
endorsement. 
For 
a 
candidate 
accused of representing far-left 
fringe groups, the recognition of the 
more mainstream Dems legitimized 
her representation of Yale's entire 
Democratic community. 
n Ward 1, 
the 
only 
W a r 
d 
s 
Josh Civin x'96 fought for a living 
wage; Julio Gonzalez '99 reformed 
fmance ; and Ben Healey '04 worked 
to pass domestic partnership legisla-
tion. They were not monolithically 
Hleft" (Gonzalez, for instance, is 
quick to point out his divergent 
views on gun control), but they 
were all, in their own way, idealists. 
Livengood, like her predeces-
sors, has followed her idealism· off 
Yale's campus and into active roles 
in the city as an advocate for· 
(( 
azne 
election. While he's running as an 
independent, he is positioning him-
self on the left 
the winning 
side 
of the Ward 1 equation, as a 
Democrat and New Haven devotee. 
Yet, unlike past alders, he claims, he 
is a Mainstream · Realist: an all-
around nice guy, the hockey team 
captain who started as a walk-on 
freshman year, the economics major 
who got involved in the Yale 
. Entrepreneurial Society because 
·he wanted a better New Haven. He 
neo 
. • 
0 
ea e 
asn't een znvo ve 
wz 
is the type of 
te guy you might 
see as a Rhodes 
ave a Scholar, or at 
least as an alder. 
uz 
time 
er . 
t 
His 
message 
could 
resonate 
• zn 
-· 
with the average 
made up primari-
ly of Yale stu-
dents, the elec-
tion for alder has 
traditionally been 
a one-sided race 
of Democrat vs. 
Republican, New 
Haven vs. Yale, 
ation an 
communicatin 
to Yale student, but ... "" 
stu ents 
. 
reason 
e 
or 
Leftist Idealism 
• · 
vs. 
Mainstream znVO Vemenf zn f 
,, 
Realism. 
Since 
the first under-
. . 
graduate became Ward 1 alder just 
over two decades ago, the position 
has gradually in-creased in impor-
tance on the Board of Aldermen. 
Few New Haveners vote in the 
aldermanic elections, and, for some 
alders, allocating a thousand dollars 
to fix a few fire hydrants in their 
ward will guarantee a content con-
stituency and a reliable string of 
electoral wins. Ward 1, however, has 
few municipal problems and a core 
constituency that wants its alder to . 
act as a leader on issues whose 
import reaches beyond Old Campus. 
The ideal Ward 1 alder is a bright kid 
with big ideas, ready to lead the 
Board, and to remind its veteran 
members that there can be more to 
city governrnent than flre hydrants 
and street lights. Recent Ward 1 
aldermen have focused their politi-
cal energies on flashpoint issues: 
16 


a public 
school writing workshop leader, and 
now an alder. But Shalek has his 
own brand of idealism. While 
Livengood is idealistic about the 
type of jobs the YNHH Cancer 
Center can offer, Shalek is idealistic 
about Yale students and democracy. 
Much of the hard-core Democratic 
community· including the 
Yale 
College Democrats, New Haven 
Action, a group started by New 
Haven fanatics to organize issue-
based movements in the 
city, 
and many campaign staffers of 
Dan Weeks, her opponent for 
the Democratic nomination last 
spring 
has 
rallied 
behind 
Livengood. Even so, Shalek trusts 
his mainstream platform to do what 
has never been done before: inspire 
the masses of typically apolitical 
Yale students to turn out for a local 
.. 
··-
realer 
it exemplifies his _ 
political naivete. 
He is overlook-
ing the consis-
tent success of 
Yale's 
political 
identifying 
and 
preferred alder. 
insiders 
in 
electing 
their 
here are three differeh t 
voters in Ward 1: The New 
Haven politico who will 
turn out no matter what. The eight-
een-year-old freshman, an excited 
first tirne voter. And the average 
Yale student, either strategically reg-
istered at a parent's address in a 
swing state, or not interested 
enough in local politics to makejt to 
Dwight Hall on election day. In the 
past two decades, no more than 7 50 
students, less than a third, have 
voted in an aldermanic election, a 
statistic consistent with most alder-
manic 
races 
New 
Haven. 
' 
Ironically, if it is voter participation 
Shalek thinks will win hirn this elec-
tion, he could learn from the 
Livengood campaign. By the time of


domestic 
partnership,


--- Page 17 ---

the Yale College Democrats debate, 
Livengood's staff had already gath-
ered 250 new registrations, mostly 
freshmen, but also older students . 
who feel strongly about this elec-
tion. In an election with low 
turnout, those 250 newly registered 
voters could keep Livengood in 
office, if 
they show up 
vote for her. 
Livengood's dedicated and pro-
fessional staff is key to the success 
of her voter registration campaign. 
Her volunteer voter registration 
coordinators, campaign veterans 
Marissa 
Levendis 
Helena 
Herring 
whose sweet Southern 
< 
greeting,r~ "Heeeyy, darling!" only 
barely conceals her intensity 
have 
-
J 
Livengood anq,.het· army of green-
shirts, ofte~ tJ:itee :::nights a week, 
. v 
~ 
knocking on' ,. c;l_oqt;s when they 
should be d6i1:1g their -homework. 
These two women, as well as 
Livengood and her campaign man-
ager Suzanne Kahn, understand the 
importance of having conversations 
about the issues at hand. Livengood 
herself learned Ward 1 politics 
while working on Healey's success-
ful campaign against Dan Kruger in 
2003. Healey's philosophy on h<?w 
to win: "You talk to every voter, like 
anywhere else. The truth of it is, it's 
not rocket science." Livengood's 
campaign staff Yalies whose ties 
range 
from 
Roosevelt 
Institution, a non-partisan, progres-
sive 
student 
thinktank, 
to 
Undergraduate . Organizing 
Committee 
may share Livengood's 
idealism, but, if there is one thing 
that grounds them in political real-
ism, it is the need to talk to voters. 
In a race this personal, voters often 
choose the candidate they've met. 
Five weeks before the election, 
Brett Edkins, Shalek's campaign 
manager, was not releasing figures 
about the Shalek campaign's voter 
registration. The Shalek campaign 
has a far loftier goal than registering
September 2005 

untried freshmen, anyway. 
te~ 
"I t may sound silly," said Shalek, 
"but I want to talk to the fraternities 
and the sports teams." 
Silly? Not at all 
Shalek believes 
that only wit~ the participation of 
th ese fringe groups will Ward 1 have 
real democracy. The voice of Yale in 
New Haven politics has long been 
dotninated by the type of students 
wh o work in the Mayor's office or 
join issue-based groups like the Yale 
Student E nvironmental Coalition. 
The rest of Yale, alth ough m ostly 
D ernocratic, 
does not suppo rt 
G E SO, as Livengood and Healey 
do. Shalek's vision for Ward 1 is a 
participatory democracy, with high 
registration and high turn -out. As 
the self-designated mainstream can-
. didate, he must engage these silent 
tnajorities of average students in 
order to win. His vision of all-out 
democracy, 
however, 
does 
not 
demand the wearying, but tested 
technique of door-knocking. Shalek 
is chasing a renewed enthusiasm in 
unlikely places for local politics, a 
bigger and vaguer prize than 250 
voter reg1strat1ons. 
Although Shalek did not win the 
Yale College D emocrats' endorse-
ment and his campaign shirts have 
only just shown up on campus, cam-
paign manager _ Edkins is not wor-
ried. Shalek has been meeting one-
17 


--- Page 18 ---

on-one with individuals in the Yale 
community that a campaign staff 
m.ember described as "leaders in 
their social groups." Besides his own 
connections with the YES and the 
hockey team, his staff has ties to the 
Yale College Democrats, a cappella, 
and the Yale Globalist. The Yale 
Political Union d~bate may have had 
a bad outbreak of bright green 
Livengood campaign shirts; on the 
Thursday night of -the debate, 
Shalek's ideal voter was chatting 
over beers about how great an alder-
man his friend Nick would be. 
egistering fraternities 
sports teams-
"I've heard that one 
before," said Julio Gonzalez, Mayor 
DeStefano's 
former 
less, they all claimed, as Shalek 
does, that their first loyalty was to 
Yale students 
not to the Mayor's 
office, the University itself, and 
especially not to the unions. 
Why were they so decidedly 
beaten? The triumphant alders do 
not remember their ·opponents as . . 
particularly competent politicians ... 
Of his opponent Witek, Morand 
remembers, 
"Tom 
Witek 
had 
grown up in a city, but that wasn't 
compelling. We debated, and when 
they asked him about the city budg-
et, he had a 
deer-in-headlights 
look." 
When Gonzalez, Ben Healey's 
predecessor as alderman, ran for 
the job, his opponent Bob Kokta 
ran up a relatively impressive num-
ae 
chief of staff and a · 
two 
term Ward 
1 
alderman. "A lot of 
people 
want 
ave a 
_ reform the process. 
N ineteen-year-olds 
tend to have very 
sharp 
minds, 
everywhere they see 
injustice." 
And, in fact, 
Shalek's strategy is 
not a new one. His 
accusation 
that . 
Livengood is too dis-
tant from the Yale 
community 
recalls 
Dan Kruger's attack 
eers a 
tS 
on Ben Healey two years ago, as 
well as attacks in older races. In 
1995, Tom Collins portrayed him- · 
self as a Yale man in contrast to 
Josh Civin's New Haven activist. 
(He lost, 28 to 312.) In 1989, Tom 
Witek called Mike 
Morand 
"Democratic Socialist" advancing 
his "homosexual agenda." (He lost, 
31 to 4 7 5.) 0 f course, they were all 
Republicans, and Shalek, though 
running as an Independent, calls 
hitnself a Democrat. But regard-
18 

ber of votes 
over eighty. "He was 
really sweet," said Gonzalez. "He 
canvassed his heart out, and the 
debate was so uncomfortable." 
(Kokta, apparently, stuttered.) "I 
felt bad," Gonzalez added. "It was-
n't fun." 
All of these outsiders shared a 
basic problem: where to find a 
devoted, politically savvy staff, if 
not from Yale's community of die-
hard activists? As Healey explained, 
"A neophyte who hasn't been 
--· ------
involved will have a much harder 
time building that organization and 
communicating to students the rea-
son for greater involvement in 
the city." 
he last time that Ward 1 
saw a Democratic pri-
mary was in 1989. In 
theory, a strong Democratic chal-
lenge should take place in a pri-
. mary, not in the actual election. 
But Connecticut primaries take 
place during the first few weeks of 
Yale's school year, so that a,ny suc-
-cessful candidate would have to 
start campaigning in the spring. 
But the serious Democratic candi-
dates, those who have legitimacy 
in the political community~ · ar~ -
over 
- to 
concentrating on 
w1nn1ng a more - -~~:-' 
valuable contest o: 
in the spring: the 
· Democratic Party 
nom1nat1on . 
. Inevitably, the 
recipient of this 
nomination 
will 
become the Ward 
alder. 
About 
fifty Ward 1 citi-
zens (the number 
varies from year 
to year) weigh the 
potential of the 
aldermanic hope-
fuls as candidates 
and as city lead-
ers. The process is far from per-
fect: Four . years ago, on the day 
before the vote, the nominating 
committee almost disbanded and 
one of the candidates dropped 
out of the race, only to rejoin 
within 24 hours. Last spring, in 
the next major nomination battle, 
Livengood walked away with the 
nomination, but a scandal ensued 
as her opponent Dan Weeks 
reportedly decided to run in the 
primary 
then 
abruptly 



**Title: The Ward 1 Alderman**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
changed his mind. The erratic 
process has disillusioned many 
students, · including Shalek, who 
asserts, "Yale students believe in 
democracy and the free and open 
exchange of ideas. Rebecca and 
Dan duking it out for a seat in 
November in March was not 
that." The committee is meant to 
represent the larger Ward 1 com-
munity; in reality, its organizers 
struggle to find enough partici-
pants. Gonzalez remembers hav-
ing to beg two women to serve on 
the co·mmittee in 2001 so that the 
pro.cess could somewhat reflect 
the Yale} C?mmunity. The students 
-
.. 
willing .. to serve are often those 
already dedicated tq_-/New Haven 
politics. As ~vres.ult, to observers 
like Shalek, the· co-mmittee seems 
. -v· 
stacked wi~h ~}re:-presentatives of 
,r 
Yale's activist community. 

Approval by this small, spe-
cialized body should confer no 
more than an official stamp to a 
strong candidate. But in the world 
of Ward 1, it breeds unstoppable 
candidates like Livengood, who 
become alders without ever win-
ning a real election. These ambi-
tious alders are merely beginnjng 
their careers, which many intend 
to reach beyond the Board and 
beyond New Haven. The three 
most 
recent 
alders 
Healey, 
Gonzalez, and Civin 
all left 
office during their final summers 
as alder to pursue loftier goals. 
In this 
situation, 
the 
Mayor 
appoints a temporary alder, always 
in the past the Democratic nomi-
nee, to fill the seat. It seems that 
Yale's political insiders have found 
a way to hand-pick a candidate 
from their midst and vault him 
or her 
uncontested 
into power 
as a representative for us all. What 
politician would not jump at 
the chance to land a position 
without contest? 

Not Livengood, for one. She 
began · her 
campaign 
for 
Democratic nomination in part 
because she was asked to run. She 
. 
is not alone. Few successful candi-
dates for Ward 1 Alderman have 
. . 
made that decision on · their own. 

Gonzalez puts it down ·to the 
process of leadership 
leaders are 
constantly on the lookout for oth-
ers who will make good leaders. 

This process may not fit our 
ideal of democracy, · but the peo-


After working as Mayor 
DeStefano's . chief of 
staff, Julio 
Gonzalez 
enrolled in what he calls 
"the 
best 
business 
school in the country," 
the Stanford Graduate 
School of Business. Josh 
Civin won a 
Rhodes 
scholarship, 
attended 
·Yale Law School, and is 
now 
a 
clerk on the 
Supreme Court for Ruth 
Bader Gins berg. And his 
predecessor, 
Stefan 
Pryor, works late into 
night 
as 
President 
of the Lower Manhattan 
D e v e 1 o p m e, n t....,-
·-
Corporation. 

Past aldermen have 
I 
brought much more to the office ' 
than simply the "activist" position 
on certain issues. They were rec-
ognized by their peers because of 
who they were. It has also meant 
a willingness to take on the chal-


ple who know the most about pol-
itics and New Haven have made 
good choices in the past. Even 
though only a fraction of the Yale 
population has actually voted for 
them, the Ward 1 alders have gone 
on to be leaders, in New Haven 
and beyond. Ben Healey is cur-
rently exercising the skills he 
developed as alderman working as 
a . political organizer in Boston. 

Healey was asked to run, not by 
his predecessor Gonzalez, but by 
others active in the political com-
munity. Gonzalez was asked to 
:run by Civin. 

In a way, Shalek's critique is 
correct 
in :recent years, Yale stu-
dents have not decided who will 
be their alder. The active commit-
tee seeks out a nominee and then 
essentially hands down the seat. 


lenge of the job. The Ward 1 alder 
gets paid $2000 a year for count-
less hours of work and dedication 
and for shouldering the burden of 
representing Yale in what can be a 
hostile adult community. It's a 
tough position to hold, especially 
for a young idealist. 

Several past alders have 
learned that lesson. Morand, who 
once worked on a campaign for 
the recognition of Local 34, now 


works for Yale. Public service 
made him see, he says, the v~lue 
of the private sector in getting 
things done. But in the reality 
of New Haven politics, getting 
things done can be a challenge. 
The Ward 1 alder holds one vote 
on a board of thirty others. 

Healey, like one of the idealistic 
freshmen Livengood hopes will 
vote for her, ran for alderman as 
a first-year without fully under-
standing 
that 
challenge. 
"I 
thought it would be valuable as 
a pulpit for things I cared about," 
he said. "I thought you had 
huge power to make changes right 
< 
away." ~ Now his memories of 
New Haven referen.ce "making 
~ 
relationshipS:,~, .. ··and 
"building 
" 
1. . 
coa lttons:... 
' - .. _ 


Livengq.c-fd/has learned that 
· 
, I 
/ r 
lesson well ·from her predecessor, 
and in debates, she constantly 
reiterates that she is proud of the 
relationships she has already built. 
Her success in this area extends 
not only outside Yale, but on 
campus. Dan Weeks, Livengood's 
former opponent, and core mem-
bers of his campaign staff, are 
now working on her campa~gn. 
She already realizes what Healey 
had to learn 
that the seat is not 
just a means of pushing her 
beliefs. In one of the most con-
tested political issues this fall, 
Livengood had to abandon any 
straight-forward 
allegiance 
to 
labor in order to navigate Board 
politics 
successfully. 
DeStefano has supported alder 
Carl Goldfield in his bid for the 
Board presidency against Jorge 
Perez, and although the unions to 
which Rebecca is accused of 
being beholden support Perez, 
she has endorsed Goldfield. 
"The hardest decision I had to 
make on the Board was voting for 
Carl," Livengood 
said. "That 
meant I had to break with a lot of


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Sarah Laskow**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
people who had supported me." 
ne month remains before 
the election, and now that 
the Shalek crowd have 
shirts of their own, the competi-
tion will no doubt 
intensify. No mat-
ter what abstract 
ideas Shalek has 


face to face for the first time just 
as the school year and their cam-
paigns kicked off. That evening, 
Livengood had spoken with a 
group of Yale students, along with 
fellow alderman Drew King and 


manager by the remains of nachos 
the audience had nibbled. Across 
the room, Shalek, although not a 
speaker that night, had lingered 
for an unofficial meet-and-greet 
of his own, only to be cornered 


into 
a 
debate 
about jobs and 
about exdting the 
average Yale stu-
dent, his campaign 
staff will need a 
concrete strategy 
to get their voters 
recent ear~ 
ave not 
Haven Hospital 
Cancer Center 
by a member of 
e 
to the polls. A 
Ward 1 race is successfully run 
and won by the students who · 
know New Haven politics best. 
Since the beginning, Shalek has 
been trying to make headway in 
strange waters. 
Livengood and Shalek came 


er. 
aldermanic hopeful 
(who 
has 
since been defeated) Gina Calder. 
The great gulf of empty room, lit-
tered by chairs, widened as the 
few remaining audience members 
trickled away. Livengood hovered 
uncertainly with her campaign 


the 
UOC. 
It 
was Livengood 
who 
crossed 
the space and 
introduced herself. He was, after 
all, playing her game: 


• -
Sarah Laskow, a senior in Dai1enport 
College, is a Senior Editor of TN].


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
he best part comes right at 
the beginning, in a kind of 
staccato, when someone 
asks, "Where did you go?" 
and I get to respond with a one-two 
drumbeat: "I was in ... Syria." After 
that, few other questions are needed: I .am obviously extremely cool. 
People do have . questions of 
course, but n1ost of them are sim-
ply being . polite. Besides, however 
sincere their interest, it is unlikely 
to wear down my own reluctance to 
broach this topic. I usually try to 
change the subject as 
quickly 
as possible. 

It's not their fault they don't 
know what to ask: You don't have 
the questions until you go, until you 
trade what you're comfortable with 
for someplace unsettling, and then 
begin to feel comfortable there 
as well. 

But that day, as I watched about 
35 students file in, I wondered 
whether this might not be an hour 
for revelation, for conjuring words 
to fit feelings and reasons to 
account for my sense of dislocation 
or, more accurately, my sense of 
dual location. 

From the front of the room, 
Karyn Jones, Director of the 
International 
Education 
and 
Fellowships 
Program 
(IEFP), 
26 
. 
glowed with her usual good cheer 
and devotion to study abroad in all 
its forms. She began the meeting by 
touting new chances. for summer 
study, ·then 
the 
Opportunity Fair, and the 200-plus 
international internships now avail-
able 
through 
office 
of 
Undergraduate Career Services . 

But, she added almost chidingly, 
a summer abroad is no substitute 
for spending a semester or even a 
year in a foreign country. "Yale is 
actually extremely supportive of 
study abroad on a number of lev-
els,'' she began. No student, she 
told us emphatically, has ever said 
to her that they regretted studying 
abroad. But several who didn't have 
admitted wishing they had. 

This, for me, was the gospel. I 
had heard it all before; but, from 
my seat in the front row, my eyes 
still drooped in a kind of possessed 
reverence for the sanctity of Jones's 
words. I found myself nodding fer-
vently. If I hadn't been worried 
about frightening all the potential 
converts sitting around me, I tnight 
have clapped. 

By the time I spoke, the audience 
had dwindled by almost half, but 
my task was, on the surface, no 
harder 
or less impossible 
than it 
had been to begin with. Syria hit me 
square in the face with more viscer-
al experiences 
major pa-radigm 
shifts, by the end 
than I had imag-
ined possible. Like beginning to feel., 
the weight of political impotenc_e· 
.. 
(that was a big one), or tempering 
ambition to suit a rusty, halting 
economy. 

Shrugging 
in 
unim-
pressed acceptance of conspiracy 
theories that tie in everyone from 
your 
government 
to 
m1ne. 
Accepting the control that random 
officialdom has over your life. 
Knowing history as tragedy. Always 
greeting your neighbors. Cooking 
something to bring to the lady 
downstairs after she delivers two 
kinds of desserts to your door just 
in case you're hungry. People in 
Syria think they know what is rea-
sonable and what others want 
because 
they 
understand 
how 
things work there 
just like we 
think we do, because we know how 
.... 
things work here. 

But therein lay the impossibility: 
I only had three minutes, so I 
couldn't say any of that, and 
because I didn't say it no one knew 
to ask. I got home more than three 
' 
months ago. The problem will not 
go away. 

In this case, there were a few 
questions posed, mostly for other 
speakers. One girl wanted to know


--- Page 27 ---

what my year in the Middle East 
was like: "I'm just cD:rious, what did 
you do there?" .··;•'-' · 
-:
/
~ 
L,-·• 
..; 

Afterwards, Jop·e~ · was pleased 
with the turnotit'!. ·'~Ii "-would have 
• • 
been higher if we had . gotten a 
room in LC," she con~eded, but the 
IEFP Office at 55 Whitney was, as 
always, getting the joh done. No 
one ever said international 
education should be proxi-
mate. 

IEFP's institutional capacity and 
range of programming has certain-
ly grown since then, but the num-
ber of students studying in foreign 
countries during term-time has not. 
According to Jones and IEFP 
Director Barbara Rowe, the number 
has held steady in the 100 to 120 
range for as long as -they have been 
tt me~ uare zn 
more vzscera 
But of course, at Yale, 
people have said plenty of 
other things about it. In 
2003, one of the main rec-
ommendations 
Report on Yale 
College 
Education (usually called 
the CYCE Report) was to 
strengthen 
international 
education at Yale. In the 
rzences-ma or 
future, it said, students 
should consider time abroad "as an 
integral part of their Yale educa-
tion," and IEFP should use "all 
available resources" to expand pro-
gramn1ing and study abroad oppor-
. . 
tunities. 

Since 
then, President 
Richard Levin and College, Dean 
Peter Salovey have taken up the call 
as well, declaring the University's 
committnent to bringing the world 
to Yale and sending Yale out into 
the world. 

October 2005 
ossz 
e. 
here. Brown University, by contrast, 
had 541 students study ·abroad last 
year, 
University 
Pennsylvania, according to its web-
site, sends more than 600 students 
abroad every year. And even at 
Harvard, which acknowledged its 
deficiency in the study abroad arena 
only shortly before Yale did, 213 
students studied abroad last year, 
up from 130 two years before. 

Rowe reports that the University's 
tentative goal is to have 200 to 300 
students studying abroad during 
term-time by the 2007-2008 school 
year, but that strikes even her as a 
long shot. But apart from this step, 
Yale has. just established the first 
term-time study abroad program, 
due to open next fall in Beijin, 
China. Almost no depar-tments 
actively encourage majors to 
go abroad, and students who 
go anyway still have to figure 
out for themselves which 
e-
programs are strong . in their 
field, and how to get credit 
for participating in them. 

So as the CYCE Report 
predicted, many Yale stu-
dents still prefer to limit their 
experiences abr·oad to the 
summer. Still, Rowe antici-
pates great things to come of 
Yale's nascent commitment 
to international education. She says 
the emphasis will continue to be on 
summer and post-graduate oppor- . 
tunities. And even that will take 
titne. ''It takes a while to change the 
culture of the institution," she 
explained. "But as more people do 
it, I think more will follow." 

Her logic made sense to me, 
which I suppose is why I confront-
ed my own loss for words as a study 
abroad panelist. Because even if it 
27 



**Title: LOST IN THE LEVANT**
**Author: Blythe Austin**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
is hard for me to explain why, I want 
to help. 
. 
.. 

Not a lot of American undergraduates study in Syria. 
Last year, to the best of my 
knowledge, I · was one of 
• 
two 
and neither of us was pleased 
when we learned about the other. 
Damascus is not that big a place, and 
if I didn't run into any of · my · countrymen at the handful of clubs in the 
Christian 
quarter 
or 
the 
few 
European-style coffee shops, I probably met them on election night, 
when the American Cultural Center 
hosted a midnight gathering to watch 
results come in, or the following 
morning, when dozens of us · yawningly converged on the · only restaurant 
in the city that was known to 
have CNN. In attendance were nearly 
all the Americans I would ·see on 
the streets of Damascus for the rest 
of the year: graduate students, teachers, Fulbrighters. There were enough 
of us that for a few hours on election 
morning, the restaurant's waitstaff 
doubled the price of coffee 
until 
Ohio was called and we all departed 
into the cold November sunshine, 
back to Syria and back to class. 
Class, for me, was two blocks away, 
, 
at l'Institut Franc;ais d'Etudes Arabes 
de Damas (IFEAD), a 39-student 
institute for foreigners operated by 
the French government and populated 
mostly by Europeans, with a smattering of Americans in the mix. 
. Classes were taught in Arabic by 
Syrian professors, many of them 
well-known writers and intellectuals 
forced by abysmally low pay at the 
University of Damascus to take on a 
second or third teaching job. Syria 
just established its first private university last year, too late to save its 
four public ones from the devastating 
effects of under-funding and 
over-crowding. In addition to the 
obvious difficulty of reaching university-level competence in Arabic, 
that means that the foreigners studying 
in Syria are generally concentrated at 
one of two private institutes, or 
at the Languages Center at the 
University of Damascus. 

Before I left the U.S., I petitioned 
Yale to approve both IFEAD and the 
University of Damascus as acceptable 
programs for a junior term 
abroad, since I didn't know yet where 
I would study. I also applied for, and 
received, a government fellowship 
which could be used to fund study 
at either place. To my shock, 
the Committee on Junior Term 
Abroad also approved both programs 
a testament, I assume, to 
their eagerness to facilitate the plans 
of enterprising students. 

They couldn't have doubted that 
I was serious. I had wanted to go to 
Syria since my freshman year, when I 
began 
studying 
Arabic 
with 
Professor Bassam Frangieh, who 
grew up there. Apparently, no Yale 
student had done a junior term 
abroad in Syria before, but that didn't 
mean the University could not 
help me. During my freshman and 
sophomore years, I met with every 
professor I knew of and a few 
graduate students 
who had studied, 
worked, or lived in Syria, taking 
notes and collecting tidbits of advice 
as I went. Ellen Lust-Okar, a political 
science professor who specializes in 
the Middle East, was planning to 
spend several months in Syria while I 
was there, so I recruited her to help 
me formulate a research topic for my 
senior thesis. One of our advising 
sessions months later was held on a 
bench in my favorite park in central 
Damascus, as we drank fruit smoothies 
from glass mugs that the owner of 
a nearby shop trusted we would 
return, as I always had before. The 
Syrian curator of the Near Eastern 
collection 
at 
Sterling 
Memorial 
Library, Simon Sanjoel, connected 
me with a friend who took me out 
for my first serious, multi-course 
meal at a Damascus restaurant. 


Afterwards, he introduced me to a 
fellow 
bookseller, who 
would 
become one of my best friends that 
year. It was hard to remember at the 
time, sitting in a restaurant surrounded by Lebanese weekenders 
in town for the cheap shopping, 
that Yale was the tie that had bound 
me to my new acquaintances but 
it was. 

The take-home lesson, I thought, 
was not terribly friendly, but it was 
realistic: Yale faculty could offer 
valuable resources to me on the 
other side of the world, but I would 
have to find them myself. 
The whole process of studying 
abroad is similar to mobilizing 
those resources: very doable, but 
heavily dependent on a student's 
initiative. The only department 
that presently lists a possible study 
abroad option in the Blue Book 
is 
Chemistry Department, 
which suggests that majors study at 
University 
of 
Sussex, 
in 
England 
an offer that, according 
to the Director of Undergraduate 
Studies, John Wood, one student 
took up last spring, in a rare show 
enthusiasm. 
Even 
if 
Committee on Junior Term Abroad 
has approved a program for Yale 
course credit, upon their return students have to show their DUS their 
overseas work in order to get credit 
in their major. That policy is similar 
to many other universities', but it 
lends an ad-hoc nature to a process 
that, given the consistent popularity 
of some overseas programs, could 
be streamlined. 

I sidestepped any real uncertainty 
about whether I would get major 
credit by making Syria my major: or 
rather, Near Eastern Languages and 
Civilizations. My second major, 
International Studies, posed more 
of a challenge, and I ended up 
dropping it this fall. Throughout 
the whole process, my point person 
at Yale was neither a DUS 
though 
I met with both of mine 
nor my 
Dean, though I met with him too. It 
was 
Karyn Jones in IEFP, who 
always responded to my emails and 
seemed to have one hand on the fax 
machine whenever I needed paperwork shuttled between departments. Other people were encouraging, but in the end I knew it 
would always be Jones, the study 
abroad warrior, who had my back. 
In many respects, I had it easy. 
For students who are Area Studies 
majors, concentrating in departments such as Latin American or 
East Asian Studies, the challenge of 
shaping a relevant study abroad 
experience is much easier than it is 
for science or engineering majors. 


---

**Title: RAISING THE NUMBERS**
**Page number(s): 30**

Even universities with better-
established programs 
than Yale's have to work to 
bolster their study abroad 
numbers. Brown, for example, 
boasts expanded offerings for science concentrators, a change that 
the University's current Director of 
Office 
International 
Programs, Kendall Brostuen, says 
resulted from a concerted effort to 
find programs for science and engineering students. The office now 
publishes a handbook listing programs with high-quality instruction 
in the sciences, broken down by 
major. At Georgetown, a similar 
initiative was recently undertaken to 
expand opportunities for undergraduates in the Business and 
Nursing schools, where requirements 
are 
stricter 
than 
the College. 

In both cases, the Universities' 
study abroad offices parsed curricular requirements and traded program suggestions with faculty. 
This year, Yale's IEFP office will 
follow suit. Rowe and Jones plan to 
meet with DUS's and faculty in each 
department to create a list of programs appropriate to their majors, 
and the office's new web designer 
will make those lists accessible 
online. "If it is standardized within 
departments, that's going to make 
everyone's lives better 
the students 
and 
DUS," 
Jones 
explained. IEFP has also applied 
for funding from the Yale College 
Dean's Office to send faculty 
abroad for on-site reviews of programs in which their students have 
participated. 

Since 
CYCE 
Report in 2003, the office has been 
the recipient of much avowed support. That institutional commitment, Rowe and Jones agree, bodes 
well for the future of study abroad 
at Yale. 
The upshot of all this may well 
be that the typical Yale undergraduate experience will look very different in a few years. And in the meantime, an improved website and the 



**Title:  IF I HAD A PENNY FOR EVERY TIME •••**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
pre-approval of programs for each 
major will at least give Yale the 
infrastructure it needs to meet its 
lofty goals. 
IF I HAD A PENNY FOR EVERY 
TIME ••• 


but as the IEFP team knows 
well, more obstacles than 
the difficulty of getting 
credit stand between Yale students 
and the foreign country of their 
dreams. Since I took up my place 
on the study abroad preaching cir-
cuit, I have heard many of the same 
issues mentioned that Jones, in 
counseling students, confronts all 
the time. Juniors are just entering 
the heyday of their undergraduate 
careers: they have a preference in 
seminars and for studio space; they 
are leading extra-curricular groups; 
and they have tons of friends, most 
of whom aren't going anywhere 
until May. 

Yalies are our own breed, of 
course, so pointing out that the 
Yale experience can't be any less 
excruciating in its third year than 
the Harvard or Brown experiences 
probably is not the way to go. 

Instead, standing in front of tens 
of undergraduates two to three 
years my junior, I carefully compro-
mise my own humility for the sake 
of the cause. My real feelings are 
hard to convey because of the fleet-
ing flashbacks that flit around the 
edges of my life at Yale, whether I 
am at Hot Tomato's, in a NELC 
seminar, or in a presentation room 
at 55 Whitney. "I got to take on 
leadership roles in several groups 
during my sophomore year, and 
when I came back this fall it was 
easy to jump back in," I say, think-
ing to myself, there was a candle 
shop, on one of the covered streets 
in the Old City; I always meant to 
go back there. "I am having a blast 
this year, and I think it's because I 
can appreciate my friends and 
socializing at college more than 
ever" 

I would watch from the 
front seat of a coach bus as the lane 
lines split on the Damascus-Aleppo 
highway. I was always in the front, 
with an empty seat beside me, 
because I certainly couldn't be seat-
ed next to a man, and few other 
women travel alone. "My perspec-
tive on classes in my major is totally 
different now, and I think my under-
standing is much, much deeper." 

Pictures of Gamal Abdel Nasser 
still hang in occasional store win-
dows, frayed and faded, like the 
ones of Hafez al-Assad are slowly 
becoming, like all the buildings 
named for the October War of 
1973, like all the big talk. 

It is hard to explain, exactly--
but then, it's the gospel. I didn't 
need a compelling panel or slick 
website to convince me to decamp 
for foreign shores. I don't adore 
study abroad because I loved Syria; 
I loved Syria in part because I 
knew already that I would adore 
study abroad. And there are plenty 
of Yale students like me: probably 
on the order of 100 to 120 a year. 
For the rest, the choice is less 
obvious, and the possibilities 
less accessible. 

Even among members of the 
working group that produced the 
CYCE Report's recommendations, 
there was ambivalence. 

"People differed on whether it 
was essential," Professor Shapiro, 
its chairman, recalled. "Some peo-
ple thought we should shove every-
one out of here for some period of 
time. Others were more skeptical." 

In the end, they agreed to make it 
easier, not requisite. After all, he 
added, students who don't want to 
study abroad certainly shouldn't 
have to. 

But they should at least know 
what they are missing. 
Paige Austin, a senior in Davenport 
College, is a Senior Editor of TNJ. 
TNJ 



**Title:  Bull Shot**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 33**

Full Shot Au Bon Pain Coffee 
Shop 
Night 

Humid 
September 
evening. 
Pedestrians whisk past the windows 
at digitally enhanced speeds. Silhouette of a twen-
ty-year-old female reporter seated at a table close 
to the glass wearing a fiendish red boa. She stares 
intently at the swiftly moving traffic, watching as 
she waits. Sound effect (SFX): a whining vacu-
um and faint muzak. 

Voiceover (VO)-Young female 
reporter 
"My editor said this would be a 
break-through story. He said 'Hey kiddo, 
this is a big one. If it was a car, I'm seeing 
a Studebaker with a chrome grill, 
wingtips. I'm seeing 
you in the driver's 
seat, full throttle' and 
then he punched the 
desk with his fist, 'That's 
makin' a day-old frappe 
a joe. This is a story 
about real life in 
photo frames. 
Cinematography, 
Kino-eye, whatever. 
I'm looking for gothic 
precipices, stressy stu-
dents, cookie-cutter 
college kids trying to 
set the scene. He says 
film at Yale is on the verge 
about to bubble 
over, a spillover into a golden age. I'm 
seeing stars. Now here I am, Au Bon Pain 
and I'm waiting for my first lead. His 
name's Adam Davenport, cool kid, cool 
as a cucumber. As a freshman, first year 
on the lot, he founded Bulldog 
Productions, Yale's first serious inde-
pendent film production company. It all 
started with a grant, a Sudler fund, 
and a short film he directed. You can just see 
him in the here, yelling 'That's a wrap.' 
Four years later, his baby is UOPF-fund-
ed -with an executive board, forty active 
members, and a zany average of two very 
hoopla films each semester. But his great-
est achievement at Yale may be one he's 
working on right now." 

Interior Au Bon Pain Coffee Shop, 
October 2005 
linoleum. Adam sits down, twists his afro with 
slender fingers. He shifts in his chair as if all eyes 
are on him. 

Cut to Closeup (CU) 
Sofia Coppola 
Yale Law School Auditorium. 
Sofia is wearing a green man-tailored shirt 
and jeans, posture as casual as her clothes. 
"Just go out and start making movies 
that you're into." 

Montage-CU 
Prism shot of Adam 
Superimposed over a shot of Adam typing a 
screenplay called Midnight Sun, we see the text 
of a letter naming him the recipient of the 
Panavision 
New 
FilmMaker 
Award, a grant 
that will cover the 
cost of camera 
equipment to pro-
duce a 35 millime-
ter film. 

Interior Au Bon Pain Coffee 
"Midnight Sun is the culmina-
tion of my film 
endeavors at Yale, 
a 15 minute film on 35 millimeter; it's a charac-
ter study of a New England college pro-
fessor who leaves his wife to meet some-
one from the Internet." 

The young reporter smiles and fluffs her boa. 
"I don't have the means to attend film 
school, so I said to myself, 'I'll make a 
film on 35 millimeter and use it as a call-
ing card for a career.' I'm so terrified by all 
this because I don't think 35 millimeter 
has been done before at Yale, but it's all 
the more reason to go for it. 

"I hope to get it to Sundance. I'm 
working with Clint Eastwood's cine-
matographer, Tom Stern. He did Million 
Dollar Baby. 

"Yesterday I got an email from 
Julianne Moore's manager." 

Starstruck, the young reporter imagines her-
self on the party beat for The LA Times. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'We're also going after Patricia of the film world at Yale. Michael Kerbel Clarkson. (H.e pauses.) I'm obsessed with actors! Meryl Streep is one of the reasons I want to be a fi1tnmaker." 

The reporter nods knowingly. 

"Oh, you've seen my picture on The Face book." 

Cut to a shot of a website showing Adam's profile. Next to his name, where his photograph should be, is an image of Meryl Streep. 

Fade to CU Sofia Coppola 'What makes a good ·director? Having a point of view. A strong opinion about how you want things to be." 

Dissolve Medium Shot Adam Davenport "I can see every shot in my mind ... I owe my realization that I have to be a filtnmake.r to being at Yale. Yale as a creative environment is unmatched. 

''Yale should never be an NYU or a Columbia Film School. If you come to Yale, you won't be a dumb artist. Yale has the potential for a .meaning-ful marriage between the academic and .extracurricular study of filtn." 

Fade to Exterior 53 Wall Street Interior The WHC auditorium, 53 Wall Street. Interior Michael Kerbel's Office Morning Kerbel turns to his computer screen and brings up Yale's Online Course Index. He types jilm" into the box that asks for ('exact word or phrase." The query yields ((198 courses found for Fall 2005." 

"I've come here because this pala-rial nothing, 53 Wall Street, is the heart of cinema at Yale. It's home base for the Yale Filtn Studies Center, a filtn collection whose scope speaks for itself. It also funds one of Yale's undergraduate and graduate filtn organizations, the Cinema at the Whitney, which just arrived on-scene this year. Let's see what's inside." 

Tottering on four-inch stilettos, tripping on!J once, she descends to the lower leve4 home of the Film S tutfy Centefj the nucleus "Now we have 10,000 titles. We have a study facility, 12 individual booths in which people can watch movies, one small screening room, and one seminar room." 

We see the new!J renovated auditorium with state-of-the-art equipment and surpris-ing!y plush seats. A shot from the front of the theater focuses on the reporter sitting in the back, with tinted sunglasses so large her face is almost total!J obscured. VO of the reporter: 

"I don't know who these critics are. This was a battle that I thought was fought and won decades ago. I don't mean to sound defensive-about it, but the concept that filtn is not an acaderuic discipline is not valid." 

Interior Au bon Pain-Afternoon David Pratt-Robson, Head of Distribution of Cinema at the Whi~ sits ()t a table across .from the reporter and eats a salad with ranch dressing. Messify. 

"So why are you writing this story? What is it about?" 


The reporter looks into her teacup for the answer. VO: 

"This is a story about the presence of filtn at Yale, entering into some kind of crazy new era. This is a story about how this campus phenomenon got started. I'm interested in how, maybe, ftlm at Yale is hurtling towards some kind of golden age." 

Interior Book Trader Cafe---Late afternoon World renowned film thinker .Dudlry Andrew, Co-Chair and Director if graduate studies if the Film Studies Program, and Chair of the undergraduate Film Studies mCfior, sits across from a young reporter 'bedaztfed in sequins. 

CU Qudley Andrews "I can be pretty clear . ~d direct about this. I thin~, ,f51r~ris . consistently a serious acad(!mlC -. dis.cipline at this institution ... Yale · h~,s. set;n something blossom that was iri "people's minds in the fifties. Whatever happens in this century, I think people who really know the debates of the past an:d the history of the past will be in the best position to make sense of what film studies is and make advances in it." 

Interior Davenport College Dining Room Noon Catherine Brobeck bas assembled a melange if lunch items on her trt!J. 5 he is wearing a floral-printed frock and Jackie 0. sunglasses perched on her head. VO if the reporter as the camera pans in on the two girls sitting at a small table ~ the windows. 

"She looks the part. Sources say she's a cineaste with credentials to boot: once President of the Yale Film Society, now Secretar·y of the Cinema at the Whitney, blah blah. The kid's done her homework. And her baby, Cinen1a at the Whitney, is a boot ning success: Those Friday night 35 mil-limeter revival screenings get packed to the gills, and I ain't talking fish. The money spurts from the WHC and the Film Studies Center crunches the numbers. · They're no YFS, a group that cashed in on showing sneak peeks. These fellas see them-selves as a couple of artisans." 

Catherine takes a small bite if her pineapple and cottage cheese. Wij>es her mouth. 

"My sole interest in a student organization is to show filtn, and I wanted to be part of an organization who would. Yale Film Society seemed unwilling to bring back 35 mi11irneter filtns. I don't understand why there is not a united filin community. There's no reason for any of the filtn organi-zations to be in competition." 

Cut to a shot if the Yale Film 5 ociety E-Board meeting in the common room if Jonathan Edwards College. Natalia Duncan, the groups president, is sitting in an armchair, leaningfonvard slight!J. 

''YFS is totally meant to be a social group, a: networking group. Our biggest and most exciting new devel-tm ts a me ium t: at's sna an a meanzn zn zs t arts e ucatzon. 

Cut back to Catherine. 5 he takes a sip of Diet Coke. 

''Everybody [at Cinema at the Whitney] cares about preserving the theater experience ... to bring an idea of curation to it like the Fi1tn Society at Lincoln Center. It's hard and expensive, but the effort is worth it. It's like a gift you give people." 

Interior Au Bon Pain Afternoon 


Alice Lov'!fqy, a PhD student who co-directs Cinema at the Whitnry is sitting at a table near the entrance when the reporter, in floral slips into an a4Jacent chair. 

"Before Yale, I was an editor at Film Comment magazine, published by the Film Society at Lincoln Center. It straddles the divide between the main-stream and the academic ... My doctor-al work is in comparative literature as well as film. 

"What the Cinema at the Whitney is about is expanding the presence of filtn on Yale's campus-to establish a ftlm culture at Yale that is based around ftlm viewing as well as. filtn studies." 

She pauses. 

"I think the professors, departmen-tal administrators, and students are all doing a great job, but I think· Yale has a long way to go in recognizing .filtn. The University just has to take the next step. Film culture is about the love for movies and the experience of movie-going. We are trying to give it a more stable institutional basis." 

The shot fades into the reporter talking on her cell phone. S uddenfy_ her voice, along with the frame, disappears. We see Professor Maria Rnsa Menocal Director of the W hitnry Humanities Center, sitting in a hotel room one time zone awqy, also talking on her cellphone. 

''It has evolved over the years. It allows us to have this artistic specialty of the Whitney. This symbiosis with the Whitney allows fil •n to become a part of other things. What begins to happen is you have more than acciden-tal marriages. It's completely cool." 

Interior Au Bon Pain-Afternoon David Pratt-Robson is chewing a mouthful of lettuce and crouton. 

''I could watch Casablanca a mmion titnes but eve g goes right back to the script. Everything is pointing to the dialogue; without the dialogue there wouldn't be any of the rest of it. 

''It's impossible to swtunarize it as to deftne .filtn is why I really love it." 

Exterior York Street Day Shot of the reporter walking, impulsive-lY tugging at the start of her blonde afro. VO: 

"It's the personalities that are con-tributing to this, each as much a direc-tor as a character. Film is a mediun1 that's snappy and sweet, culturally and academically relevant; bridging a rick-ety gap between work and play. It gives these books a little oomph, there's, as they say, a little prescient cultural meaning in this liberal arts education." 

Cut to Dudley Andrew. 

"Motion Pictures are just stories, narrative and image." 

Cut to Adam Davenport. The year is 2016. He is sitting in a director's chair, on a set, in Los Angeles, California. The sc~'!_e is crowded and bustling. Actors a?e· ~f!t of trailers, ha!f-clothed, with costumiers and :~ make-up artists jogging behind them. By thq_ wall is a crtift-seroices spread, delivered f?Y a Zone Dietfriendfy caterer. Grips and extra hands linger I!J the table and pick at some let-tuce. Adam stands up and people fall into place. The .lights dim. The production is Song of Solomon, written and directed f?Y Adam Davenport. A!frie Woodard is Pilot, Derek Luke is Milkman, Terrence Howard is Guitar, Samuel L Jackson is Macon Dead, and of course, Meryl S treep is Circe. In the background lulls the theme song, Song of Solomon. Vocals lry Audrey McDonald 

"Meryl, honey, could you do that one mote tune?" 

"Sure thing Adam. I wasn't really satisfied with that last take anyway.'' 

''This rin1e, more passion, more mystery." 

Interior Au Bon Pain Night Adam Davenport looks at the reporter, poised to speak. 

''I can already picture the trailer. It's weird, I know. But that's how I think." 

Romy Drucker, · a junior in Davenport College, is Editor-in-Chief of TNJ. being one thing. That there isn't a way (PhoflJs tviiT'Ie!Y of THE NEW JOURNAL 



**Title: Hearing**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ing, or should they embrace the lan-
guage of the deaf community? The 
debate is complicated by the diffi-
culty of diagnosing deafness. Here 
at Yale, both the lives of students 
who identify as deaf, and the work 
of professors who are developing 
new conceptions of how we com-
municate, can help shed light on 
what it means to be "hearing."


Perfect hearing isn't nec-
essary to 
function 
in 
the 
everyday 
world. 
While 
newest leg prosthe-
ses 
have 
taken 
design 
principles 
from the legs of the 
fastest land-animal, 
the cheetah, Amy's 
hearing aids imitate 
human hearing, not 
the aural equivalent 
of the cheetah or 
the owl. The barn owl 
has four auditory 
cavities asymmetn-
rically distributed on 
its face so that the 
owl perceives sound 
from 
both 
sides, 
above, and below. If 
Amy refuses to wear 
a 
"hearing 
helmet," 
it is hard to 
imagine hearing aids implanted 
asymmetrically across her face. 
For Alina Engleman, a deaf 
graduate student in global health, 
deafness is a matter of identity. 
While some deaf people choose to 
assimilate into hearing culture, she 
states that "There are deaf people 
who do not see deafness as a dis-
ability at all who accuse deaf 
people who see otherwise as 'hear-
ing in the mind.'" Deafness to this 
group means being part of a rich 
cultural and linguistic minority. 
Ironically, Alina finds her disabili-
ty empowering. 
Hearing aptitude is almost 
impossible 
to 
quantify. 
Functioning ears don't guarantee 
that a person will hear what's said 
to him. Alina notes that "There 
are deaf people who are more 
hearing than the hearing, and hear-
ing people who are more deaf 
than the deafest." To prove this 
point, consider the people we 
know: Who has good hearing? 
Whose hearing is slightly below 
average? Who is deaf? There are 
no mainstream categories for dif-
ferent levels of hearing. "I can 
tell," Amy says, "when a person 
has hearing loss. They talk too 
loudly or mumble." Yet there are 
"tricks that deaf people use to 
make it appear that they can hear. 
You nod a lot, make neutral com-
ments or quickly change the 
topic." Amy's technique calls into 
question the way people judge the 
capacity of others to understand 
them. People are constantly com-
municating without even realizing 
they are doing so. 

Perhaps it seems unfair that 
Amy could manipulate her disabili-
ty to verify a boy had a crush on 
her. But he had already communi-
cated to her that he liked her why 
else would she have sent in a spy? 
We unconsciously look for signals 
non-verbal 
communication. 
When 
we're 
"heard," 
the con-
versation is smooth, 
without uncomfort-
able pauses or unac-
knowledged 
ques-
tions. Through the 
unwitting signals we 
exchange, commu-
nication transcends 
hearing. 

In a larger con-
text, hearing acuity 
is much more a mat-
ter of social con-
structs. In the eyes 
of the world, a per-
son is only deaf if 
he misses conversa-
tional cues. Hearing 
conversations with 
greater 
accuracy 
means 
nothing, 
while missing subtle 
conversational cues 
is everything. Yet, 
there is some medically-deter-
mined threshold that separates 
hearing and deaf. If we're above it, 
we hear; below it, we're deaf. 
Perhaps the threshold is 
imprinted in our physiology. Just 
past the eardrum lies a fluid-filled 
sac entirely responsible for our 
hearing: the cochlea, the same 
organ activated by Amy's hearing 
devices. Inside, there are roughly 
29,000 hair cells, each capable of 
detecting an aural frequency. These 
cells transmit to the auditory nerve, 
which carries electrical signals to 
the brain. But the complexity of the 
cochlea's function suggests that 
there cannot be only one way of 
being "deaf." A problem with the 
auditory nerve causes deafness in a 
different way than the death of hair 
cells. Alina's conception of deaf-
ness as identity undermines any 
"purely medical perspective." 

Considering such a threshold, 
Alina reminds the hearing popula-
tion that "each and every deaf 
person has a totally different 
approach to communication" that 
stems from difference in prefer-
ence, hearing, and experience. 

The knee-jerk response is to 
divide ourselves into the hearing 
and the deaf. As Alina asserts, 
"The cultural and social norms of 
the deaf community are totally 
distinct from the hearing world." 
This dichotomy reinforces the 
existence of an unspoken thresh-
old of hearing. Amy acknowl-
edges 
that 
division 
gives 
hearing-
impaired people a reason to feel 
disabled: "Early deafness puts 
you on the special track and that 
track usually doesn't lead to Yale. 
If I hadn't been integrated early 
and diagnosed later I might not 
be here." Judith York of Yale's 
Office of Disabilities responds, 
"I think I can surmise what Amy 
was thinking. If her deafness had 
been present since birth, it's like-
ly her parents would have taught 
her American Sign. Sign is not 
pure English. A non-oral person 
may not learn perfect English 
grammar and may miss out on 
writing 
skills." 
Consequently, 
such students might have difficul-
ties comparable to those of inter-
national students who immerse 
themselves in a culture whose 
main mode of communication is 
foreign to them. 

The distinctions between ver-
bal and non-verbal or deaf and 
hearing students are controversial. 
At what point are you deaf? 
Friends, neighbors, and co-workers 
refer anyone suffering from hear-
ing loss to a specialist. The special-
ist usually confirms the judgement 
that these people are on the other 
side of the hearing threshold. 

So how do we make that 
call? Despite those like Alina 
who believe that there is 
no scientific definition of 
deafness, a group of Yale sci-
entists are making progress 
towards understanding what it 
means to hear. 

Psychologists have identified a 
phenomenon called categorical 
perception of color. We've all seen 
a rainbow with its distinct bands. 
That rainbow actually exists as one 
continuous change in wavelength 
that has no sharp changes that 
would delineate red, from yellow or 
blue. Yet all humans perceive these. 
Thinking that this might be cultur-
ally mediated, scientists traveled 
the world looking for different 
groupings of wavelength in differ-
ent cultures. They discovered that 
with slight differences, almost all 
cultures group color the same way. 
Something inside our minds shapes 
and simplifies the world of color, 
drawing sharp lines between red 
and orange where no such line 
exists. It's possible 
that we have the 
same inher-




**Title: Hearing**
**Author: Gabriel Diaz**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
ear 
crosse 
eann 
ezn • 
classifying . hearing-one category 
for either side of the threshold. 

J\ssuming the threshold is inherent, 
we should be able to define it. But 
what set of features do we use to 
judge someone's ability to hear us? 
We're not consciously testing, or 
even watching for traces of hearing 
loss, yet if it's there, we can tell. . 
But Brian Scasselati of the Yale 
Robotics Lab is testing just that·-
using robots to model human cogni-
tion. 
As 
Scasselati 
admits, 
"Sometirnes we have to cut corners. 
We can't build a system perfecdy 
from the bottom up." Consequently, 
when 
helped 
build 
Kismet, a robot that recognizes 
scolding, praise, and other tones of 
40 
voice, the robot didn't even have 
ears. It instead heard through a 
microphone pinned to a lab assis-
tant's shirt "to eliminate back-
ground noise." Yet Kismet can cer-
tainly hear. When scolded, the robot 
immediately showed sadness, and 
when praised, its ears perked up and 
it sn•iled. It can appear happy, inter-
ested, sad, or angry, depending on 
what's said to it. Kismet is able to 
"hear" 
by 
recognizing 
verbal 
proso<:fy 
how something is being 
said. By interpreting and reacting to 
speech, Kismet crossed the thresh-
old 
morphing from a lump of 
metal to a hearing being. 

Rationally we know that Kismet 
can't actually hear us. Yet when 
Kismet is sad, its reaction is so nat-
ural, one can't help but feel remorse 
. for hurting its feelings. Despite this 
verisimilitude, Kismet does not 
respond verbally; you can see that it 
is a robot. Our criteria for hearing 
includes response, not just sensitivi-
ty to tones. There is something 
unconscious and innate about it. 
The cognitive device that constructs 
a hearing threshold is beyond 
our perception: While we don't 
know exactly how we can tell, we 
always can. 

An implant like Amy's helps 
humans cross the threshold in a sim-
ilar way without modeling the 
processes of human hearing. "The 
cochlear implant filters our frequen-
cies that are not within the rang~~ pf 
-
......., 
a 
human speech," Brian Scasselati con-
firms. A person with a cochlear 
implant isn't going to hear every-
thing; talking to Amy seems like talk-
ing to anyone else. Yet, Amy in une-
diately protests, "My interactions 
with you are highly contrived." At 
the end of the day, she still feels deaf 
inside. 

"If you were standing five feet 
further away, we wouldn't be able to 
have this conversation." 
Gabriel Dia~ a sophomore in Silliman 
College, is on the staff of TN]. 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Title: The Quarterlife Crisis**
**Author: Alexandra Robbins**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

ast month, I turned twen-
ty. It's been four years 
since I could legally oper-
ate a motor vehicle, two 
z 
. 
years since I_ could legally vote; and 
• > 
about three weeks since I realized 
I 
•' 
··~ ,..~ 
,.. 
that I can n(), lo~ng~r write off my 
·~ 
f 
.. 
grouchiness, rh.ooc} s,.Vings, irri-
.r_ 
tability, and sort}etifue"s unpleas-
ant personality as byproducts 
of teen angst. Twenty is a road 
marker, one that essentially 
reads: "Hey Kid, You've Got 
One Year Before You Can 
Drink and Two Before You're 
Thrown out on Your Ass into 
the Real World." It's been 
almost two months since I left 
my summer internship, two 
weeks since I should have start-
ed applying for jobs for next 
summer, and it'll be another 
three before I get on the ball 
and update my resume. In two 
years, Yale will toss me out, 
diploma in hand, and I'll have 
to find a job, a home, and 
maybe a cat. Unless I turn out to be 
a statistical abnormality, I will be 
married in five years, have at least 
one child shortly thereafter (or 
shortly before, perhaps rnotivating 
said marriage), and pass through 8.6 
jobs by the time I'm 32. In other 
words, I have to prepare myself 
for adulthood. 

Apparently I'm not alone in rny 
anxiety about the future. Five years 
September 2005 
after the climax of teen angst (15) 
and fifteen years before the oft-cin-
ematized mid-life crisis ( 40), a feel-
ing of dread assaults most twen-
tysomethings. Although the senti-
ment has only been recently identi-
fied, it has become widespread 
enough to warrant its own label: 
The Quarterlife Crisis. A couple of 
weeks ago, I wandered into the Self-
Help section at Barnes and Noble 
and discovered that the affliction 
has even generated literature: a slitn, 
stop-sign red volume by Yale alum-
na Alexandra Robbins promising 
help. I flipped through, read the 
blurb on the back, and bought it. 
While I still have a couple of years. 
to go before I enter "quarterlife" 
·territory, pre-emptive strikes are a 
trend these days and I figured I 
might need to know what I was in 
for. As I walked to the register, I 
couldn't help noticing the book's 
subtitle: Advice from Twenrysomethings 
Who Have Been There and 
Survived. 
· At least I'm 
not gomg 
to die. 

The term "Quarterlife 
Crisis" entered the cultural 
lexicon 
in . 2001 
Rob bins, prior to publishing 
Secrets of the Tomb and Pledged, 
co-authored Quarterlife Crisis. 
The book was a national 
bestseller, spawning numer-
ous 
imitations 
Robbins' 
website bills Quarterlife Crisis 
as "The Official Book" and 
Conquering 
Your Quarterlife 
Crisis 
as 
"The 
Official 
Sequel." I 
was 15 when 
Quarterlife Crisis was pub-
lished, · so it's not surprising 
that it slipped under my radar. But, 
given the success of the Prozac 
Nation genre in the late nineties, it 
seems only natural that a wave of 
self-help books aimed at healing 
Nation's author Elizabeth Wurtzel 
and her cronies has followed. 

Luckily, Robbins' sumtnary of 
Quarterlife Crisis in the introduction 
to the sequel eliminates the need to 
read it, let alone buy it. According 
41 


to Robbins, "the Quarterlife Crisis 
is a response to reaching a turning 
point in life 
in this case, the tran-
sition between young adulthood and 
adulthood." She immediately notes 
that it can manifest itself in an 
·almost infinite number of ways, but 
provides a helpful checklist geared 
at self-diagnosis: 

* You don't know what you want. 
* Your 20s aren:t what you expected. 
* You have a fear of failure. 
* You can't let go of your childhood. 
* You waffle over decisions. 
* You constantly compare yourself 
to others. 

Presumably 
Quarterlife 
wasn't this con-
cise, but it did 
stop 
short 
of 
offering concrete 
tips for overcom-
ing these obsta-
cles. 
Robbins 
admits that the 
lack of advice in 
" 
was an egregtous 
omission," 
and 
claims 
that 
Your 
will provide what 
its 
predecessor 
did not: a form of 
. mentorship 
for 
those who are too 
Angelina soon yielded to the pres-
sure to "do something reaP' and· 
spent two years "sampling 'grown 
up jobs"' before she "finally gave 
in" and returned to school to pursue 
a masters in education. I kept wait-
ing for Angelina to throw. off the 
cloak of convention andfind happi-
ness as a poodle groomer, a pet 
EMT, or even return to her· roots as 
a dog walker, b?t this was not to be. 
She makes her exit still planning to 
be a teacher and describing her 
retirement fantasy: "Going to every 
major league ballpark, moving to 
New Zealand, owning a parrot and a 
And even though the purpose of 
these opening vignettes is solely to 
provide context for the advice that 
follows, it's hard ·not to get sucked 
in. This isn't a book about how to 
• deal with losing a limb or surviving a· 
plane crash 
it's about dealing with 
daily minutae. Who can't feel a 
· twinge of sympathy for Leigh, who 
"dread[s] Sunday nights because 
they mean Monday morning is only 
a pillow away"? And Kelly's account 
of her home-life is undeniably dis-
mal: "I have a cat who I talk to all 
the time, but last night I was just 
crying, lying on the couch ·all by 
myself and ask-
ing 
the 
cat, 
'What should .I 
do?' and the ,cat 
....,._,_._ 
doesn't &r:e!" 
~ 
Thankfully, ~ -
overworked, This se!fhelp book} advice mqy make your life worse than it alreat!J is. 
avoided spiral-
ing into depres-
sion over a self-
help book, even 
one that fore-
casts my twen-
ties to be an 
utterly 
miser-
able 
decade, 
because, frankly, 
some of the· tes- . 
titnonials 
are 
just too ridicu-
lous. Take Larry, 
who says he's 
driven to suc-
ceed 
because 
"I've seen oth-
depressed, 
or 
remote to make it to one of the 
numerous Quarterlife Crisis suppo.r:t 
groups that have recently sprung up 
around the country. 

Let's analyze the structure of 
Part One of the book 
"Hopes and 
Dreams" 
as an example. The sec-
tion begins with the story of 
Angelina, who, after graduating 
from college, took a job as a dog 
walker. Despite realizing that ani-
mals 
were 
her 
true 
passion, 
42 
monkey and an iguana" and lament-
ing that "I have to look forward to 
the final part of my life to do that." 
Robbins, it seems, is a proponent 
of the "break 'em down, then build 
'em back up" mentality conunonly 
used in n1ilitary boot camps. Each 
chapter of the book follows a for-
mula, beginning with a series of tes-
timonials by agonized twentysome-
things which is followed by advice 
from their better-adjusted peers. 
ers my age making decent money, at 
least enough to get them a nice wife, 
car, nightlife, or apartment., 1 can 
understand the basic needs for 
transportation and shelter, but 
come on 
this guy is complaining 
that he can't afford to buy a wife. 
Then there's Laura, wh9 found 
empowerment after appearing on an 
Oprah segment entitled "Turbulent 
Twenties" and hearing the talk-
show guru instruct the audience to 



**Conquering Your Quarterlife Crisis: A Review**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"be the best person you can be." 
But I was unable to link Oprah's 
advice to Laura's eventual success. 
Although I can see how, if Larry · 
became "the best person he could 
be" (i.e., not a chauvinistic pig), he 
might stop regarding women as 
material goods and possibly get 
a date. 

The sage advice from the twen-
tysomethings who have managed to 
get their lives together seems gen-
uinely heartfelt, but I often couldn't 
read it without recalling the empow-
erment speakers who frequented my 
high school. In Robbins' book, 
there's John, w4o says "I wish I'd 
known at 2~ t~at 'you should slow 
• 
down and think about what) impor-
tant."' Only slight_l_y;,U:onic; consider-
, . 
ing that he caf1;1e' t-o JhiS" s::onclusion 
:; 
I!'"
~ 
' 
I 
-' 
. 
after having a 
f~w; ~ di1~ks, ripping 
"' $'; --. 
down the intersta;te ·at 6ver 100 miles 
per hour, and winding up in a ditch. 

And, in perhaps the book's most 
dramatic testitnonial, after her hus-
band is critically injured in a car acci-
dent, Maria finds herself trans-
formed overnight from newlywed to 
caretaker. Noting that all situations 
that cause stress are "a big deal/' 
Maria tells readers, "It's important to 
free yourself from the preconceived-
notions of what adulthood should 
be. The preconceived ideas are often 
what lead people into a downfall of 
hopes." 

Most of the book's featured 
twentysomethings 
weren't 
faced 
with such dire situations as ditches 
and downfalls, but their advice is 
equally 
vague. 
Regardless 
of 
whether they're commenting on 
work, home, relationships, family, 
friends, hopes, dreams, or the vast 
expanse that is "identity," Robbins' 
surrogate· therapists encourage read-
ers to take risks, readjust world-
views, be open to change, and find 
inner peace. Robbins herself flits in 
and out of the advice segrnents, 
offering "More Ways to Conquer" at 
October 2005 
the end of each chapter, in which .. 
she rehashes the tips she already 
explained. Both Robbins and the 
twentysomethings suggest legitimate 
ways to beat the blues, but . because 
their advice is · so abstract, so one-
size-fits-all, after. a while it begins to 
resemble the "Re-Vamp Your Life!" 
articles that are published, reworked, 
and republished in women's maga-
zines every month. Flipping to the 
back of the book, I noticed that 
Cosmo is listed among Robbins' cred-
its. It all began to make sense. 

I'm honesdy surprised that no 
one found a way to ·mass-market the 
concept of the Quarterlife Crisis 
sooner. But in spite of her claim that 
Conquering Your Quarterlife Crisis is the 
book with all the answers, I found 
its advice so general that it could be 
applicable to almost any unhappy or 
stressed person at any junction in 
life. The only thing Robbins man-
ages to do in the book is establish 
that twentysomethings have issues. 
Duh. She already wrote an entire 
book about that. Ironically, Robbins 
differentiates the Quarterlife Crisis 
from the midlife crisis, saying ''A 
middle age guy might feel his life is 
stagnant, characterized by pre-
dictability, stability, and certainty. At 
25 however, a common feeling :is 
that there's too much unpredictabili-
ty, instability, and uncertainty." But 
both groups benefit from being told 
to _mix it up, try new things, and 
spurn complacency. 

I finished the book more con-
vinced than ever that the first cou-
ple of years out of Yale are going to 
be difficult. But I still had no clue 
what to do about that. Of course, I 
could always just follow Robbins' 
lead and impose my neuroses on 
the masses. 

Helen Eckinger, a junior in Trumbull College, is 
the Research Director of TN]. 
TNJ 
RT Coi.I.F:GE 
' s 
with 
• • 
-
An[hor and Director at China Central Television (C 
), the 
nationaltelevision network of the People's Republic of China. 
Thursday, October 20, 2005 at 4 pti~ 
Davenport College Master's House 
43 



**Naked Man**
**Author: Jon Hood**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

have a dirty little secret His name is 
Naked Man. 

I know. It's a funny idea that there is 
some New Haven man who lies completely 
nude in front of his window all njght, every 
rught, never under the covers, completely 
exposed, always revealing some traditionally pri-
vate region of his body for anyone 
..... ·, 
down the sidewalk to see. Most people don't · 
believe me until they see for themselves. Then 
they're as hooked as I am. 

I've seen the back of his head, but I've never 
heard him speak Actually, I've only ever seen 
him lie, motionless, with a telephone and a box 
of Chinese food perched next to his bloated 
gut, television flashing animal documentaries or 
CNN. But I cannot stop going to see him. 

Every time I walk by, I notice something 
new through the frame of his window; and 
catch a glimpse of a life I otherwise would 
never have known: a lamp with a tattered shade, 
a box of Tide detergent, a bicycle, a toe missing 
from his left foot. Something compels 
me to return multiple nights each week to 
his window to peer through the black security 
grate at his small and unchanging yet ever-
expanding world. 

The friends I often take with me--my con-
verts 
are usually incredulous. Some don't 
believe my story at all; others simply can't believe 
that I come to see him so regularly. But our jour-
ney never fails. At the end of that concrete rain-
bow there is always a bjg, fleshy pot of gold 
He surprised us the first njght, my friend I .ane 
and I, as we took our midojght constitutional in 
-: .... 
44 
on 
00 
New Haven's after-hours neon glow. Wa.Iklng by 
a white brick building shaped like a slice of wro; 
ding cake, I .ane and I caught sjght of an unex-
n :x:t penis. She grabbed my ~ 
pulled me 
back a few steps, and indicated a· small window 
looking direcdy onto the sidewalk Through the 
woven strands of the iron security bars, I had my 
first taste of middle-aged nudity. We stood 
dumbfounded, mouths agape, paralyzed with 
horror and ovetwhelmed with amusement Were 
our eyes deceiving us? Wa5 there rcal1y a naked 
man lying in full view no more than three feet 
away from his window in all his plll5-sized glory? 

Something about his posture. screamed for 
our attention. His knees extended across the 
bed, a racetrack steering my line of vision direct-
ly to his crotch. I was mesmerized. And with 
one simple sentence, the first mystery of Naked 
Man was hom: ''His penis is looking at us!" 

I Can't quite describe-rutd believe me, you 
probably wouldn't want me to 
what makes this 
staternent true; but it. is undeniable. He was 
sprawled in a lazy fetal position, and his penis was 
cert · 
in a prominent place. The frame of the 
window limited our vieW' into the apartinent, hid-
ing his face at the head of the bed There was real-
ly nowhere else to look :Maybe it is instinctive, 
when accosted by a naked person, to gbnce at the 
crotch. 'I hat I undc:t stand But neither I .ane nor I 
could shake the feeling that this particular crotch 
retw ned our stare. We took a moment to let the 
scene settle in and then continued on our way. 

Though the 
· 
sentient qualities of this 
man's 
served as conversation between 
I .ane and me for the next day or so, there was no 
immediate desire to 
retur n to his window 
and relive the experi-
ence. While funny, it 
was hardly titillating 
or pleasant Nudity 
tends to be 
only 
when 
the 
unclothed body itself 
is pJeasjng to behold. 
We 
were 
hardly 
warm for this man's 
fom1. His bulbous 
gut 
jutted 
out 
beneath his flabby chest, a bloated trunk attached 
bluntly to the skinny chicken legs of a mjddle-
aged man. He wasn't partia 1larly hairy, his chest 
only home to a few sparse patches of gray curls, 
but this didn't mitigate the overall effect No, we 
didn't want to see that agajn. 

It was only by chance that several days later 
I ane and I found ourselves 
dawn the 
same sidewalk around the same time of njght I 
don't think either of us even noticed that we 
traced the identical path of our previous jaunt 
But as we approached that odd buikding, we sud-
denly realized where we were. The light from his 
apartment spilled onto the sideWalk, ~and, to 
embrace cliche, we were drawn to it like mo~ to 
a flame. We approachecl the window t:inlldly, 
braced ourselves for disappointmen~- and 
received the mixed blessillg of a repeat perform-
ance. Nothing had 
Having overcome the initial shock of 
being accosted by a penis, we began to take 
in a little more of the Man's surroundings. 
The apartment was cheaply furnished, bright 
and harshly lit, yet oddly inviting. I jke the 
gaudy luxurious splendor of European 
palaces draws tourists to their vast confines, 
so did this apartment's stark, still ajr. We were 
like a pair of tourists marveling at an undis-
turbed, perfectly preserved scene. It was truly 
a living still life. He lay in the same position, 
his television still broadcasting Animal 
Planet, and the telephone still lay next to his 
gut as if he expected an important call in the 
middle of the night. The entire scene was 
exactly like the home of some historic figure 
lovingly restored and kept immaculate by a 
team of devoted curators. A few months 
-. 
later, Lane and I would visit the death place 
of Stonewall Jackson in rural Virginia. 
Standing there, behind the rail, looking at the 
bed in which Stonewall died, I would be 
reminded of our Man's eerie calm. 

At our second encounter, the initial inrt ig. 1e of 
Naked Man started to wear of£. Nothing had 
changed. He lito ally appeared not to have moved. 
As we walked away, I ane and I feared that we may 
have discovered not Naked Man, but Naked 
Dead :Man. Would a living person rea11y lie naked 
ctirecdy in front of a window every night? Ask any 
THE NEW JOURNAL 

--- Page 45 ---

-------~-~---------------···--------------
Morse or Stiles uppetdassman; guaranteed · 
our main concern in the room draw is finding a 
location where we can be naked without anyone 
in the co 
seeing How could this n1an be so 
different from the sn:.rcotypically unabaShed col~ 
lege junior or senior (particularly at a school 
known for naked parties) and not concern him-
self with the fact that evuy late-night pedestrian 
can see his penis? The only logical conclusion was 
that he didn't know. And that he was dead 
· We were tc1 tified I don't deal well with dead 
bodies. Afrer this, Naked :Man turned into a fu11-
sca1e obsession Over the next week I ca11ed I ane 
at least three times just to hear her say that there 
was no -way that we'd seen Naked Dead :Man. 
Everytimewewere around each other, the conver-
sation quickly co. 
on him. We knew that we 
had to reU1111 to find out the truth. 

Another week later, we made the first 
planned trip to .pis .. quiet apartment. In the 
witching hour's gloom, we stalked with purpose 
down the sidewalk; anxiously bracing oursclves 
. -
for crime scene tape or. s,ome~other indication 
that the body had beep f~d. :Bot the path was 
• J 
as dear as ever, so we· ~pp~~~d the glow of _ 
Naked Man's window.:_-The· rO'orri still had not 
nged, save the addition of a box of Chinese 
food on the ~d next to his telephone. And 
Naked Man had rolled over. No penis met our 
t is at once a sti 
and I'd been six. 
Our friends had heard us 
about 
it over the weeks but didn't know if we 
were inventing this 
It was only 
after we admitted to ourselve; that this 
man was of import to us that we began . 
. ·. 
telling others. Just as the tour guide at the ·· •· ...... · · •· ; • · 
Stonewall Jackson shrine would express · · · .· · • · 
his love of the Genernl to I ane and me, •.· ··• •· 
·: . . 
we offet;ed this litrle piece of ourselves to ·. ·• •. ··• •· .. 
.. 
a select, · 
~ J 
few. 

We didn't think seeing this man 
naked was funny anymore. We sure 
weren't getting any sexual gratification 
from him, so why did we contin11e to 
go? I've puzzled over this conundnun 
many times since last spring It's possi-
ble that watching this man sleep satisfies 
some as-of-yet unreleased voyeuristic 
impulse btuied in my psyche, but I value 
the individual's right to privacy pretty 
highly and, in general, try not to active-
ly violate it. And fear not, fellow Stilesians 
I . 
do not sit in the co 
scouting the 
next Naked Man amongst my peers. It must be 
something about this particular man that keeps 
dt :w· 
me back. 

And yet, in some ways I do recognize in 
myself a desire to simply view him. I certainly 
feel some kind of 
t e) a 
enre gratification in see-
ing Naked Man, 
azntzn J an a narrattve. 
but I refuse to 
equate it with the 
gaze, just the sad buge of an aging man's ass: 
I've never been so relieved to see a bare bum in · 
my life. Unless he was a zombie, this now 
mobile Naked Man could not be dead. And 
zombies aren't real. We left relieved, feeling as 
though a great intrigue had finally been settled 

Up to this point, Naked Man had been a 
communal CXpUience. Neither I ane nor I had 
evu dared search him out and revel in the CXpC-
alone. But in the following two weeks, I 
couldn't resist reruming without her. Now that I 
knew he was alive, there was no clear reason to 
retnm. But I had invested so much time 
about him that I could not resist. And besides, 
though one mystery had been solved, a new one 
tit tgered We'd been there three times, and on 
' . 
every occasion we'd seen him naked I had to 
confit m that, no rna ttl: r what night of the week, 
OJ ae could always count on this naked exhibition. 
'Ihe next titne that I ane and I went 
lied 
and rernarked how long it had 
ba-u since VJe'd seen him. She looked at me 
shyly, and I knew she had retm ned. Fmally, we 
both confessed: I ane had gone about tc n times, 
same impulse that 
glues the collective stare to the eXploits · of 
Paris Hilton. But like Paris, Naked Man dis-
plays himself shamelessly. I can't claim that 
he's inviting me to come and see him or bring 
friends along, ~ut I don't think he wouldne 
offended. He's comfortable with himself in a 
surreal way. Unlike attendees of a naked party, 
the man does not showcase his cool, 
unashatned attitude towards his body, but sim-
ply his body itsel£ There are no pretensions. 
And 1 mexpectedly, with this attitude, the true 
allure no· longer revolves around his nudity, 
but abstracts it, allowing the imitge of his life 
to take center stage. He really is like a work of 
art, frozen within the window casement. 

What I~ve come to undustmd, especially since 
this semester began and I've found myself peer-
ing into his window sevr 1 al times, is that going 
down tl•at road has vuy little to do with the actu-
al physicality that is Naked Man His body holds 
no more surprises for me. Pee 1 iog through that 
grated window is much less about the promise of 
his 
and more about ex1JOSing my appre-· 
ciarion for it. He is the instigation of an intense 
and thorough introspection. 

Naked Man is depressing: His life seems 
exceedingly lonely, locked in the confines of a sin-
gle room. My view of him is limited by the 
boundaries of a window frame, but within that 
viewpomt I can see all the essentials of his life: 
From his bed and his small kitchenette to the toi-
let right inside the" apartment's entrance. It is at 
once a still life, a genre painting, and a nat rarive. I 
can imagine his movementS from one station of 
activity to the next, and whether it is as limited to 
the three basic activities of human life as I believe, 
that's all that I have the power to see. And I don't 
want to see anymor<:-

I don't mean to dehumanize the man by 
reducing his life to a display of bodily functions. 
Nor do I c1aim that only an artistic or theatrical 
production can be enjoyed and contemplated I 
embrace what he has so blatantly offered to share 
with the world 
namely, his-body at its most 
basic. It's beautiful His apartment, his bed, his 
naked fonn 
these truths serve to remind me 
that unden1eath these clothes and despite the lux-
ury (yes, luxury) of a Yale dorm, I am just like 
him. I sleep naked I use Tide detergent. I eat 
Chinese food. rve even been known to dream 
along to nature documentaries and Amierson 
Couper 360. 

Maybe I see myself m Naked Man and that's 
why I can't really feel any guilt for -watching 
Maybe, in his life, I see a 
er of the art that 
is so wanting everywhere else. I don't know. But 
rm pretty sure rn go see him tonight anyway. 

Jon Hood is a jtmior in E~a Stiles Co/Hg!. 
T\:J 
45 



**Title:  Who are you considering?**
**Author: Zvika Krieger**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
by Zvika Krieger 
(Who are you considering?" 
(The big three." . 
he first thing I want to tell you is that, at McKinsey, we're dif-
ferent Each of us, from the most junior consultant. to the 
most tenured partner, has a voice and an obligation to use it 
This diversity not only rD.akes our work enjoyable, but it also enables 
us to bring abroad range of perspectives to solving our clients' prob-
lems. Although you'll be doing a lot of the "heavy lifting--gathering 
data, building and refining economic models, analyzing results and 
preparing reports 
this work is the cornerstone of our problem 
solving. Even as a new business analyst, your opinions, analyses, and 
recommendations will affect the decisions our clients make. When 
you work for McKinsey, you have the opportunity for far-ranging 
impact. That's because our clients are the world's leading organiza-
tions, and we work direcdy with their management The problems 
you will be called on to address are mission-critical 
I was a psych major at Yale and up until a few weeks· ago I spent 
my whole life doing theater. Do you think I knew anything about busi-
ness consulting? For my latest project, .we were hired by a Mexican 
beer company. that wanted to market its beer in the U.S. Can you 
believe that? I'm getting paid ( 
to sell beer:. So they send me 
down to Mexico City, 1 go 
straight to the company head-
quarters from the airport, and 
the CEO meets me outside. 
o are 
. . 
( 
We're sitting there, talking about the company, 
smoking cigarettes 
because that's what 
they do in Mexico, the CEO discusses all 
·· 
his most important business in the back .. : ·• . .·. 
garden over a pack of ·cigarettes. And here ··· . ·• .•. · .... 
I am, this 23 year-old kid, giving marketing · i. 
advice to the CEO. Incredible. 
Here, take a McKinsey stress ball. 


he first thing I want to tell you is that, at 
BCG, we're different 
e 
. 
We invest heavily in your success. Professional 
growth starts when you do. Ours is an environment that encourages 
initiative. The best ideas win, irrespective of your position in the hier-
archy. Our business requires the kind of teamwork that thrives on 
diverse perspectives. We value and see power in your uniqueness. 
Respect for the individual is a key value at BCG. As part of a team, 
you develop hypotheses, gather and analyze data, discover patterns, 
create strategies, define action plans, and mobilize the organization for 
success. We enable our clients to win decisively and sustainably. That 
means 
· 
the rules of the game, not just playing it better. 
I was an art history major at Yale with a focus on fashion. Do you 
think I knew anyd•ing about business consulting? You know they have 
those things with credit car 
ss promotions? You know, with like 
airlines or department stores? Well, I'm working with a major credit 
card company that wants to attract more companies to do promotions 
with them. I'm jetting around the country, 
to CEOs of differ-
ent companies, trying to figure out what makes them pick different 
credit cards, what kind of deals we can offer them, why they go to our 
competitors, important things like that And this is only my first case. 
Here, take a· BCG deck of cards. 


he first thing I want to tell you is that, at Bain, we're different 
Bain provides an unmatched learning experience. You'll learn 
by doing and more experienced Bain colleagues will guide 
you every step of the way. We'll prepare you with training 
both for-
mal. and informal 
from the minute you walk in the door. We're prag-
matic and open-minded. We're direct, honest, arid informal at all lev-
els. We tell it like it is. You'll be an active member of the team from 
-....... --... 
day one, researching the client's business, interviewing key 'b!stomers 
~ 
and competitors, and then interpreting the data. You'll dig deep intg 
.. 
the numbers to unearth the right solutions. You'll help top manage-
.· ment make the big decisions that transform their companies. You'll be 
someone who acts decisively to get things done and make an impact 
I was a religious studies major at Yale, I'm supposed .... •· •. ·•. 
, . 
enn 
'' 
:.::_.:::. 
wasn't for me. Do 
you think ' . 
< 
• > r r f .. 
.. . . 
.. . '• 
'• :' . 
I knew anything about business 
consulting? Everybody in the music industry is trying to fig-
ure out how to cash in on this digital music craze, how the record 
labels can actual1y make money off of it The latest idea is..product 
bundles 
what we can package with the usual album's worth of 
music to convince people to pay for the. CD when they can just 
download it for free. So we were hired by a major record label to look 
into the market trends. Why does a BowWow CD packaged with 
three exclusive tracks and two music videos sell less than a Black 
Eyed Peas CD packaged with only one music video? Is it just the rel-
ative popularity of the artists, or is there something else going on 
here? I get to talk to a lot of industry experts, work through focus 
group reports, and consumer habit ttackers. It's actuaUy a lot of fun. 
Here, take a Bain botde opener. 
Zvika Krieger is a senior in Silliman College. 



**Title: Yale Studies in Autobiography: Student Critics on Faculty Writers**
**Author: The Yale College Review of Books and the Whitney Humanities Center**
**Page number(s): 47**

The Yale ·college Review o Books and the . 
itney Hurnanities Cente: 
present a panel discussion 
''Yale Studies in Autobiography: Student Critics on 
J 
~--
z 
. • 
. -
Facul 
riters'' 
with Autobiographers: 
John Morton Blum, ALi e with History 
J~hn Donatich, Ambivalence: A Love Story 
;~··· -.-
Carlos Eire, Waiting or Snow in Havana: Con essions 
-:/'. 
J_.r 
-
·:;. ~ . ;~ · :-: .. · 
o a Cuban Boy 
Sara Suleri 
odyear, Meatless Days, Boys Will Be Boys 
Sherwin B. Noland, Lost in America: A Journey with my Father 
Willie Ruff, Jr., A Call to Assembly: The Autobiography 
o a Musical Storyteller 
Robert B. Stepto, Blue as the Lake: A Personal Geography 
Edward Stankiewicz,·My War: Memoir o a Young Jewish Poet 
and Editors of the Yale College Re~view o Books 
Tuesday, October 25,2005 
4:30p.m 
itney Humanities Center, Auditori 
53 Wall Street 
Reception immediately following, Room 108 
For more infortnati.on phone: Manana Sikic at 203 432-0673 
_ 
or e-mail: manana.sikic 
ale.edu 
Free 
open to the 
lie 
April2005 
47 

