Publication date: April 19, 1991
Volume: 23
Issue number: 5/6


**MASTHEAD:**
- **Editor-in-Chief:**  (Not listed)


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
5 ABOUT THIS ISSUE 
6 NEWSJOURNAL
Park 'n' Glo ... Mobile Medicine 
10 BETWEEN THE VINES 
Next Time, Elope ... By Janina Palmisano 
FEATURES 
14 New Haven Fights Back ... By Katherine McCarron 
A city-wide movement struggles to unify New Haven 'sfragmented health services. 
Can it be more than a glorified referral service? 
18 Radio Daze: New Haven Listeners, Yale Leaders ... By Laura Heymann 
WYBC needs New Haven listeners. But Yale students call all the shots. 
22 On Thin Ice ... By Patrick Ho 
For many players, the New Haven Nighthawks represent a stepping stone to the big 
leagues. But some arefinding that it's j ust the end of the road. 
26 Mental Hygiene: A Clean Bill of Health? ... By Emily Bazelon 
Is Yale's Mental Hygiene department driving its patients crazy? 
BooK REviEws 
30 Terminal Blues ... By Matt Fleischer 
32 Make Money, Not War ... By Kathy Reich 
FICTION 
35 Evacuated ... By Nina Revoyr 
An old woman in a Japanese-American internment camp finds solace in an unlikely 
companion.


**Title: ABOUT THIS ISSUE**
**Author: (Not Listed)**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: NEWSJOURNAL**
**Page number(s): 6**



**Title: BETWEEN THE VINES**
**Author: Janina Palmisano**
**Page number(s): 10**

Next Time, Elope


**Title: New Haven Fights Back**
**Author: Katherine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 14**



**Title: Radio Daze: New Haven Listeners, Yale Leaders**
**Author: Laura Heymann**
**Page number(s): 18**



**Title: On Thin Ice**
**Author: Patrick Ho**
**Page number(s): 22**



**Title: Mental Hygiene: A Clean Bill of Health?**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 26**



**Title: Terminal Blues**
**Author: Matt Fleischer**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Title: Make Money, Not War**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 32**


**Title: Evacuated**
**Author: Nina Revoyr**
**Page number(s): 35**



**Title: Park 'n' Glo**
**Author:  [No author specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Mundy Hepburn's work redefines the art of parking-under the neon lights. 
New Haven's Neon Garage may be the 
only parking garage that doubles as an 
art gallery. The rafters and walls of the 
garage display examples of an unusual 
art form-luminous sculptures made 
from glass, chemicals, and electricity. 
Usually associated with glaring 
commercial signs, neon is gaining 
acceptance as a medium for high art. 
Since 1988, the garage-located on 
Crown Street between College and 
High streets-has exhibited the work of 
Mundy Hepburn, an artist fascinated 
with manipulating molten glass.


Hepburn's creative impulse used to 
eclipse his concern for profit. But 
financial necessity and the prospect of 
reaching a large audience made him 
receptive to the idea of bringing his 
work into the mainstream. The owners 
of the Neon Garage saw marketing 
potential in neon that Hepburn did not 
realize. "He used to just give things 
away," said Joe Coppola, one of the 
owners. "If you said you liked 
something, he'd say 'take it."' Now 
some of Hepburn's pieces sell for 
several thousand dollars. "The garage 
was my first foray into reality," said the 
artist, who is currently exploring other 
venues for his work.


Hepburn's sculptures defy popular 
notions about neon. Some pieces are 
stark, clean, and geometric; others are 
malleable tangles of soft color with 
painterly strokes and patterns. Layers of 
multicolored triangles hover above the 
entrance to the Neon Garage. Behind 
them, iridescent glass ribbons drip with 
colored paint. At the back of the garage 
hangs a bouquet of flowers-one small 
example of Hepburn's elegant neon 
foliage. Magic Garden, his large 
sculpture permanently installed at the 
Panasonic headquarters in Osaka, 
Japan, is an exotic collection of 
glowing otherworldly flowers and 
"dweaselators." Sparks from electrified 
gas crackle inside these irregular, bulb-
like glass vessels. "Hepburn is an 
alchemist-a magician with light," 
writes Rudi Stern, whose latest book 


**Title: ABOUT THIS ISSUE**
**Author: JGP**
**Page number(s): 5**

So there we were. Ten people-the new TNJ executive board--crammed into a very 
small elevator. Four others from the old board lingered outside, but we coaxed 
them in. We hit "5." The elevator started up ... l ... 2 .. .it lurched to 3 .. .4. The "5" lit 
up for a second, and we waited for the doors to open. They didn't. Slowly the 
elevator began to sink. 4 ... 3 ... 2 ... l ... B. Basement. 

The old editors got out, and we closed the doors to try again. Nothing 
happened. After a few more tries we decided to find the stairs. The basement was 
dim, dank, and filled with recycling containers. We thought briefly about setting up 
an office down there, but more on that later. After several misguided wanderings 
into closets and bricked-over doorways we found the right staircase. We groaned at 
the five flights of stairs-the easy path was clearly not ours. But finally we made it 
up to a wildly successful dinner party. And Joey's zucchini pasta was a big hit. 

We knew this experience must be a paradigm for something, but we weren't 
sure what. Here's what we came up with: in our exuberance to take the helm we 
tried to do too much at once. We've learned our lesson, but we still have a lot on 
our plate for next year. 

We're courting new readers by distributing TNJ outside Yale's gates: to places 
like City Hall, the New Haven Public Library, and Ashley's Ice Cream. In our 
inaugural issue we've tried to strike a balance between Yale and New Haven, with 
features on each and a cover story that connects both communities. We've revived 
the book review section, and we're printing a longer-than-usual 40 pages. We've 
also run the first piece of fiction in TNJ history. 

But we're trying not to lose a sense of our roots. In anticipation of our tenth 
anniversary in September, we looked through some old issues and found a 
statement of purpose written in October 1981. Having rescued a magazine that had 
died of what they called "bad luck and indifference," TNJ's second founders 
published their statement of purpose. They captured our aims so well that we want 
to reprint just one paragraph: 

We cover almost exclusively Yale and New Haven stories. We don't do this 
because our view of the world is myopic, but because we want to do what we 
can do best. With our limited resources, and your limited time, we think it wise 
to provide you with information you probably can't get in Time or Newsweek. 

Last year's board really lived up to this creed, with their commitment to hard-
hitting New Haven stories. We thank them for their leadership and we hope to fill 
the large shoes they have left. With commencement approaching we'd like to say 
farewell to the class of 1991: Mark Badger, Laura Heymann, Ellen Katz, Sean 
O'Brien, Josh Plaut, Motoko Rich, Lisa Silverman, and Roy Tsao. 

A special thanks must go to Lisa, our former Publisher, under whose 
leadership the magazine saw a quiet revolution. It was Lisa who made the decision 
to switch from typesetting to desktop publishing. With Mark, our designer, and 
Masi Denison, our production manager, she convinced the staff and the Board of 
Directors to enter the modem age. This means flexible design, no more crooked 
lines of type, and an end to last-minute dashes to the typesetter. 

Our final thanks go to Master Turan Onat and especially to Dean Christopher 
Taylor of Calhoun, who gave us a room of our own. We knew we had arrived when 
we booked up our phone and answering machine, bung photos and old TNJ covers 
on the walls, and brought in our recycling bin. And the office is in the basement-
we knew there was something in that elevator paradigm. 
JGP 


The New Journal extends a warm welcome to the two newest members of our 
Board of Directors: Thomas Geyer and Patricia Pierce. 


HASTYLES 
For Men 
and Women 
821/2 WBJ St. (865-9187) • 19 Broadway (865-9182) 
We caT)' Nexxus, Sebastal, 
KMS and Paul Mitchell Products. 
No Appointment Necessary 


THE BLOSSOM SHOP 
by THE MAIN STEM, ltd 
203-772-1550 
296 Elm Street 
New Haven, Connecticut 06511


MAIN GARDEN 
~ 
Chinese food 
376 Elm Street • New Haven 
TEL: (203) 777-3747 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
MON.-THURS.: 11AM- 1 AM 
FRI. & SAT.: 11 AM- 2 AM 
SUN.: 12 NOON - 12 MID 
$12 minimum delivery for Yale 
Students only.


Celebrate TNJ's 1Oth 
anniversary! We need people 
now to help us plan the 
issue-write stories, take 
photos, draw graphics, sell 
ads. Come to our meetings-
Tuesdays at 9:30 in our office 
in the Calhoun basement, 
Entry F. 
THE NEW JOURNAL



**Contemporary Neon**
**Author: Meme Stowers**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Contemporary Neon features Hepburn's 
work. "By successfully breaking the 
rules of neon manufacture he has 
created a very individual form of 
expression." 

Hepburn himself may be more 
intriguing than his work. At age eight 
he was so entranced by a man working 
glass at a fair that he began melting 
light bulbs over the gas stove at home. 
Hepburn is a self-taught scientist who is 
happier talking about chemistry and 
physics 
than 
making 
aesthetic 
declarations. When asked what he 
wants his pieces to communicate, he 
quipped, "Do you mean are they 
fraught with deep inner meaning?" 
Hepburn has never lost his 
childlike curiosity and desire to invent. 
He builds all his major pieces of 
equipment-torches, 
vacuums, 
furnaces, gas gauges-from salvaged 
materials. His latest technical challenge 
is to make glass from raw ingredients: 
sand, soda, and lime. This glass differs 
from the flawless prefabricated tubes he 
used for the Neon Garage sculptures. Its 
thick, bubbly texture provides Hepburn 
with a more sculptural medium. When 
he illuminates this glass with neon, the 
light emphasizes the irregularity of its 
surface. 

Eventually, Hepburn wants to 
make gigantic neon forms with his 
homemade g lass, still impossible 
without better technology. To achieve 
this goal, he must ftrst develop the tools 
and techniques necessary for large-
scale work with his temperamental 
medium. "I'm awakeni ng to the 
possibilities of the technology," he said. 
The concept of a garage-exhibition 
space has not significantly improved 
the parking business, but it gives 
Hepburn good exposure. "People stop 
in off the street all the time," Coppola 
said. Some even have purchased or 
commissioned sculptures for their 
homes. The idea of neon as art seems to 
be catching on. "The momentum of my 
life is picking up," said Hepburn. "Now 
I am much less the mad scientist in the 
basement." 
- Meme Stowers
APRIL 19, 1991


**Mobile Medicine**
**Author: Abigail Phillips**
**Page number(s): 8, 9**

"If they don't come to you, then you've 
got to go to them," said Dr. Wilfred 
Reguero, Chairman of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology at Saint Raphael' s 
Hospital. For the hundreds of women 
in New Haven who fail to receive 
prenatal care, Reguero offers a 
revolutionary solution. Forty-eight feet 
long and set on wheels, Saint Raphael's 
Neighborhood Mobile Clinic parks in 
front of schools, community centers, 
and housing projects, providing free 
services ranging from 
medical 
checkups to nutrition counseling. 

The van is a branch of Project 
MotherCare, an innovative effort by 
Saint Raphael's to combat the soaring 
infant mortality rate in New Haven. In 
the Dixwell area north of Yale, 23 out 
of every 1000 babies die in their first 
year-more than twice the national 
average. Reguero believes that prenatal 
care can overcome the poor nutrition 
and substance abuse that cause infant 
death. 

But in areas of the city that lack 
adequate transportation and medical 
resources, many women cannot get the 
treatment they need. According to 
Reguero, others do not realize the 
importance of prenatal care. "It's not a 
priority on their list," he said. Louise 
En do of Saint Raphael's Foundation 
Board thinks some women are daunted 
by the forbidding atmosphere of 
hospitals. "When a woman enters the 
emergency room, first she sees a guard, 
then someone asks her about 
insurance," Endo said. "Hospitals are 
very inhospitable for people without 
money." 

Intensive care for an unhealthy 
newborn costs up to $100,000. But 
according to a national study, a hospital 
saves $3.38 on neonatal care for every 
dollar invested in prenatal care. 
Although the MotherCare van will cost 
Saint Raphael's nearly $500,000 in its 
first year, the program eventually 
should pay for itself. 

The van makes regular stops in 
neighborhoods such as Dixwell, 
Newhallville, and Fairhaven, where 
medical services are scarce. "We're 
trying to reach areas of the community 
where there's not another immediate 
source of health care," said Lisa 
Collison, a physician's assistant in the 
mobile clinic. The New Haven 
community bas welcomed the facility. 
On the first day alone, 134 patients 
sought treatment from the MotherCare 
van. 

Not all MotherCare patients are 
pregnant women. The van also offers 
primary care for men and children-
from routine blood tests and throat 
cultures to alternative medicine such as 
acupuncture. One cocaine addict has 
come to the clinic weekly for the past 
three months for acupuncture. He 
claims that the treatment lets him relax 
and concentrate on his determination to 
give up drugs. "We try to do what we 
can for everybody who walks in," 
Collison said, "whether that means 
making an appointment or getting them 
booked into a service." 

Collison sees patients in one of two 
examining rooms. The van also has 
small rooms for a registered nurse and a 
receptionist, and offices for a substance 
abuse counselor and nutritionist. This 
On the first day 
alone, 134 patients 
sought treatment from 
the MotherCare van. 
concentration of varied health services 
allows for one-stop health shopping. 
"Patients may come in for something 
and end up getting connected with a lot 
of services that they may not have 
known about," said Robin Illing, the 
nutrition counselor. If patients miss 
follow-up appointments, the driver and 
a social worker seek them out in their 
homes and encourage them to return. 

Project MotherCare • s newest 
Making the most of their space: MotherCare clinicians provide back-to-back services. 
program is an evening clinic at Saint 
Raphael's, open three nights a week for 
women unable to get help during the 
day. Yale-New Haven Hospital hopes 
to open a similar clinic on the nights 
Saint Raphael's unit is closed. As part 
of his project, Reguero also envisions a 
monetary incentive to boost prenatal 
care-he wants to pay women for going 
to a certain number of prenatal 
appointments. Such a program would 
save money on neonatal expenses. 
Although Reguero reports that a similar 
plan has had tremendous success in 
Europe, it has not yet been accepted in 
this country. In the United States, he 
said, "We are archaic. We are a 
disgrace." 
-Abigail Phillips



**Title: BETWEEN THE VINEs------------------~ Next Time, Elope**
**Author: Janina Palmisano**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Long tendrils of ebony curls 
swirling in the wind. Smoky eyes 
peering with the innocence of a 
doe. Pouted lips parted in 
anticipation of the first kiss. A sparkling and 
shimmering ball gown, a peek of blushing 
cleavage. Pearl and· diamond earrings. Armfuls 
of meadow flowers. A barefoot bride kicking up 
sand on the beach. Grace. Softness. Perfection. 
The cover bride had a zit. 
Smack dab in the middle of her forehead,. a zit the color 
of her lipstick. Five editors, two art directors, and I, the lowly 
intern, circled around the print proof; the editor-in-chief 
collapsed in a chair, mumbling feverishly to herself. But the 
worst was yet to come. "Maybe it's just me, but does anyone 
else see ... freckles?" I asked. We lowered our faces still closer 
to the proof. We looked, we saw, we groaned. What was 
there to say? A bride can't have zits or freckles. 
We called the printer, stopped the presses, airbrushed the 
zit, and lightened the tones to fade the freckles. Though we'd 
saved the bride's porcelain complexion, we couldn't deny 
that she was (gasp!) imperfect. For when her face was 
lightened to pale the freckles, her neck and shoulders 
remained a good two shades darker than her face, an 
unforgiveable make-up faux pas right on the cover. But had 
we also lightened the bride's neck and shoulders, her skin 
would have blended right in with the dress's ivory-silk-lace-
fichu-collar neckline. And that would have been a mistake 
beyond compare, for if that ivory-silk-lace-fichu-collar 
neckline didn't stand out on the cover, Priscilla of Boston 
wouldn't loan us any more $3,200 dresses for our shoots. It 
was a choice between a two-toned bride and an angry 
advertiser--one who forked over $10,000 in ads each issue. 
We opted for the Technicolor bride. 

I had accepted the bridal magazine internship 
anticipating a summer of lipstick and roses, a taste of 
publishing, and a complete switch from the androgyny of 
Yale. At 22, I was jaded. Few things seemed magical 
anymore; I had discovered that----------------------- in 
the. eighth grade dane~, the Page aifterpage oifchamnagne 
seruor prom, and the Christmas 
Ball. were actually three diamonds, and glaSS slipnerS 
versiOns of the same nervous 
breakdown. Solidly grounded beckoned and the prinCeSS inside 
in a two-year relationship, I 
understood that after the first me reared her non-feminist head. 
year people usually don't kiss 
in the rain or set aside $25 a week for flowers and Boynton 
greeting cards. I had become a cynk. 
But when I flipped through a 500-page bridal magazine, 
page after page of champagne, diamonds, and glass slippers 
beckoned, and the princess deep inside me reared her non-
feminist head. With those magazines I bought into romance 
all over again, and I believed. I believed that the dresses were 
actually wearable, the brides were actually beautiful, and the 
people behind the magazines actually cared about helping 
stressed-out brides-to-be. Ignorance was bliss. 
Like all good things, that illusion came to an end. I soon 
discovered that the magazines, dressmakers, caterers, and 
florists are engaged in a conspiracy to make the average bride 
covet a wedding beyond a Rockefeller's dreams. The heart of 
the industry isn't wine and roses, or even weddings-the 
heart of it all is money. This fact became painfully obvious 
the first time I worked on a photo shoot. Bridal magazines 
borrow prohibitively expensive gowns from manufacturers 
hungry for free advertising. These gowns range in price from 
$2500 (which, surprisingly, is not outrageous) to over 
$10,000 (which, shockingly, is not uncommon). Such 
expensive gowns give the magazine an exclusive, Town and 
Country allure, and desensitize the bride to the 
manufacturer's outrageous prices. If a bride-to-be has fallen 
in love with dozens of $4000 
wedding goW'OS, when she 
walks into a bridal shop and 
discovers the "perfect dress" 
for $1500, it seems like quite a 
bargain. There's one born 
every minute. 
In one layout we featured 
an $11,000 fairy-tale 'dress that 
would have put Cinderella to shame. The entire Alen~on lace 
bodice was band-beaded with miniature, Austrian lead crystal 
beads-not plastic, not glass, but fine lead crystal. They 
sparkled like light on water; never mind that dozens of the 
Lilliputian beads shattered each time the model 
temperamentally folded her hands across her chest. And what 
a chest there was. For $1100 a day we got a model with the 
right coloring and figure to wear the size-six ivory dress, but 
a size-six model doesn't have any chest of consequence, 
certainly not enough for a dress with a neckline emphasizing 
cleavage. So we handed her a push-up bra, and the make-up 
artist went to work with his fairy dust and magic brushes, 
creating light and sultry shadow where there were none. 
Absolutely none. 
The most striking feature of the dress was its portrait 
neckline, a collar that stands aw~ from the body, showcasing 
the shoulders, cleavage, and collarbone. And this was 
supposed to be a portrait collar to outdo all others. It was to 
plunge gracefully in front, showing not too much make-
believe breast, and stand regally away from the shoulders, 
casting a slight shadow on the upper arms. Or so promised 
the manufacturer. In reality, the weight of thousands of 
crystal beads caused the shoulders to sag, revealing half the


bride's pretend breasts: fine for the 
June issue of Playboy, but no good for 
us, the purveyors of true romance. We 
stuffed the collar with crumpled toilet 
paper; it flopped. We tried holding it in 
position and whipping away our hands 
as the pictures were snapped; it 
crumpled. We tried asking the modeJ to 
flex her tiny biceps to support the 
collar; she couldn't. (Of course not-
how strong could she be, eating nothing 
but radicchio?) Finally, we told the 
model to lean suggestively against a 
paneled mahogany wall while we 
carefully secured the sleeves to it with 
masking tape. The neckline stood away. 
it stayed up, it was perfect. And 
because she smiled so sexily, so coyly. 
we captioned the photograph: "Jennifer 
smiles sweetly with a secret for her 
groom ... " No kidding: she was taped to 
the wall, bad pushed-up cleavage, and 
shards of crystal shattered at her feet 
every time she moved. That's some 
secret. 

By mid-summer, the magazine's 
sneaky tactics had tainted me. On one 
assignment I visited all the exclusive 
bakeries in New Jersey. Claiming that I 
was getting married the next summer, I 
requested a free taste of their cake. 
When 
you 
consider 
that 
a 
professionally decorated wedding cake 
for 150 guests costs upward of $450, 
it's a reasonable request. The bakers 
who smiled and gave me that free taste 
of cake earned kudos in my article on 
the best wedding cakes in the state. To 
the ones who wouldn't comply with my 
wishes, I flashed my bridal press pass. I 
informed them our readers would love 
to know just how miserably they treated 
brides-to-be. With that. entire cakes and 
apologies showered upon me, but it was 
I was wreaking sweet 
revenge on everyone 
who preyed upon the 
emotional 
rollercoaster of 
wedding planning.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Janina Palmisano**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
too late. I was wreaking sweet revenge 
on everyone who preyed upon the 
emotional rollercoaster of wedding 
planning. 

Such moments of triumph helped 
me feel powerful in a sleazy system that 
was beyond my control. I met reputable 
florists who told me that the moment 
someone walks into their shop and says 
"wedding" they increase their prices by 
300%. Three out of four magazine 
covers feature a blonde because, 
although brunettes are 58% of the 
population, blondes sell more wedding 
dresses. Regardless of how many 
letters we received from established 
bridal free-lancers, my editors weren't 
interested in buying any new articles. 
Since the average length of a 
subscription to a bridal magazine is one 
year, the editors recycle all copy. To the 
accountants in the back room, new 
articles seem unnecessary, especially 
when each full-color, full-page 
advertisement brings in more than 
The heart of the 
industry isn't wine 
and roses, or even 
weddings-the heart 
of it all is money. 
APRIL 19, 1991 
$10,000 for the magazine. If you're 
putting out a 500-page magazine, that 
consists of 65% advertisements, you get 
some staggering profits. 

No industry knows how to prey 
upon its consumers like the bridal 
industry; it victimizes women by 
exploiting the very dreams it fosters. 
Even the most rational woman is not 
immune to its schemes. One bride I 
know spent $1600 on her silk designer 
gown, twice what she planned to spend. 
When it came time to purchase the veil, 
though, she was determined to be 
frugal. She found the perfect headpiece, 
a simple bow with demure appliques 
and a cathedral-length veil. The price 
on the headpiece said $250, complete. 
Standing on a pink pedestal, surrounded 
by mirrors and seven saleswomen 
cooing over how important it was to 
have the perfect veil (read: dress, shoes, 
slip, stockings, 
make-up, 
bra, 
underpants, deodorant, etc.) on "her 
special day," she asked if the veil came 
in the soft white color of her dress. 
"Oh, that color is only available in 
silk, and there's an extra charge for 
that." How much? "In silk, which you 
need in order to match your silk dress, 
that would be $600." 

The room started to spin. $600 for 
a seven-inch bow with some netting? 
The bride shook her head sadly, said 
that it was too expensive, and left the 
store. Unfortunately, on the 45-minute 
drive home she listened to the "Love 
songs, nothing but love songs" radio 
station, and by the time she pulled into 
her driveway, she had rationalized the 
purchase. MasterCard in hand, she was 
ready to close the deal over the 
telephone when a summer's worth of 
disillusionment flooded back to her. 
Yes, I admit it. I am that bride-to-be; I 
got engaged during the last week of my 
internship. And even well-armed with 
what I knew of the charlatans waiting to 
take advantage of my excitement and 
emotion, they almost got me. 

But at least I knew better than to 
fall in love with a crystal-beaded gown 
and its stand-away portrait neckline. 
Janina Palmisano is a senior in 
Timothy Dwight College. When she 
gets married in July, she'll be wearing 
a different veil. 


**Title: New Haven Fights Back**
**Author: Katherine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

New Haven Fights Back 
Katherine McCarron 
Cremate the dust of a guy who got bust 
Left back his girl with invasion of lust. 
Based out crack and that don't stop 
I wonder how much crack can these people pop? 
Robert Taylor taps his foot to the rhythm of a rap he is 
writing about crack. Taylor will perform his rap next month at 
a youth conference sponsored by a community group called A 
Way Out. For Taylor, who usually performs at night clubs 
like Third World Cafe, the conference offers a new platform 
for his anti-drug message. At 20, he is one of the oldest 
members of A Way Out, a group of more than 30 kids who 
want to end drug abuse and gang violence in their 
neighborhoods. Some of the members meet in the basement 
of the Hill Health Center, a community health clinic, while 
others meet at Wilbur Cross High School, to talk weekly with 
each other and several adult coordinators about whatever is 
on their minds. "The idea is that kids tell us what they need," 
said Allen London, a leader of the group and a sociology 
major at the University of New Haven. ''They target issues 
that are a problem to them-like substance abuse or 
violence-and work out the solutions themselves." 

Fighting Back Program Director Lauri Winter keeps health and 
social service programs in touch with each other. 
14 THE NEW JOURNAL 
A Way Out is part of a larger effort to combat drugs in 
New Haven. In March 1990, New Haven became one of 15 
cities--chosen out of 369-to win a1$200,000 grant from the 
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The Johnson and Johnson 
"Some people are frustrated that 
Fighting Back is not doing 
anything. It is difficult to plaf!, ... 
when people want something 
done." 
Co-mpany established the foundation to improve health care 
in the United States. Its latest effort, the Fighting Back grant, 
targets substance abuse. If New Haven can develop a 
convincing plan to beat its drug problem, the city stands to 
gain $3 million over the next five years to implement the 
programs Fighting P Jck has developed. 

The $200,()()(. planning grant from the foundation is an 
investment in the future. To make the most of scarce 
resources, New Haven's Fighting Back organizers want to 
unify existing programs before independent block watches 
and clean-up campaigns further fragment the city's drug 
prevention efforts. While the Fighting Back leaders sit in 
committee rooms, however, many community members want 
results now. "Some people are frustrated that Fighting Back 
is not doing anything," said Lauri Winter, New Haven's 
Substance Abuse Service Coordinator. "It is difficult to plan 
when people want something done." But it's careful planning 
that will give the Fighting Back movement staying power and 
offer New Haven a way out of the problems of drug abuse. 
"What's new about Fighting Back is that it's about 
collaboration," Winter said. "We ask the existing programs in 
New Haven to keep in mind that they are interrelated." While 
collaboration seems like a good idea, it's hard to integrate 
independent programs. "There are lots of chiefs and no 
Indians for the amount of work that needs to get done," she 
said. 

Although more than 200 people sit 
on the 
various Fighting Back 
committees, 
Winter 
dismisses 
allegations that the program is an 
ineffective bureaucracy. "We' re well 
staffed, but we want to keep the 
bureaucracy light," she said. "If the 
implementation grant is won, the 
majority of the money has to get out to 
the people who need it, rather than 
getting stuck in red tape." 

According to Alderman Mike 
Morand (D- 1), the most effective way 
If New Haven can 
develop a convincing 
plan to beat its drug 
problem, the city 
stands to gain $3 
million over the next 
five years to 
implement the 
programs Fighting 
Back has developed. 
to use the money is to invest in present 
resources. " Building on existing 
strengths is the surest success, not 
trying something new," Morand said. 
Fighting Back draws on intervention 
programs such as those already offered 
at the YMCA, the Hill Health Center, and 
Members of A Way Out plan an anti-drug skit for a youth conference in May. 



**St. Raphael's Hospital. Fighting Back**
**Author: Katherine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
plans to make the health system in New
Haven more accessible by referring
substance abusers and their care
providers to available programs.
Fighting Back also hopes to draw
New Haven's many grassroots
organizations into its network. Now,
most volunteers either work in
fragmented groups or give their time to
churches and other established
institutions. This fragmentation bas
kept many programs from succeeding
in the past. "People are more concerned
about turf issues than about providing
services," said Dennis Hart, the co-
chair of Fighting Back's prevention
committee. According to Hart, Fighting
Back must unite with well-established
institutions to gain respect. "We need to
tap into the church's credibility," Hart
said. "We need to find out what the
youth groups and Sunday schools are
up to and get them involved."

But Fighting Back wants to be
more than a glorified referrai service.
The movement hopes to improve
substance-abuse care in New Haven by
supporting new intervention programs
like Project MotherCare (see page 8)
and the eight Maternal and Child
~ Health Outreach
~ (MACHO) workers,
~ who go to the
~ homes
of
~ pregnant women
:::s to
provide
i prenatal care and
to
help
them
through the health
care
system.
"Intervention will
keep New Haven
off the list of the
highest
infant
mortality rates in
the country," said
Bonita Grubbs of
Christian
Community
Action.

For now,
though,
New
Haven
needs
more beds in its
hospitals ,
and
treatment centers.
To
this
·end,
Fighting Back supports such advocacy
groups as the Consortium of Substance-
Abusing Women and their Children,
dubbed Moms and Babies. Last year,
Moms and Babies secured eight
additional beds at the Crossroads
treatment center from the state
legislature. Crossroads is the only in-
patient center in New Haven that allows
substance-abusing mothers to keep their
children with them while they go
through treatment, rather than placing
the kids in foster homes. But eight beds
are clearly not enough. Addicts who
"Building on the
existing strengths is
the surest success, not
trying something
new.''
need treatment and have no private
health insurance still face six-month
waiting lists at public and grant-funded
facilities like Crossroads and the
Addiction Prevention and Treatment


The real question is where Fighting
Back will find the money to implement
the treatment programs they demand.
" The Johnson grant will not fund
treatment," said Cynthia Farrar, director
of the Special Commission on Infant
Health. "The Foundation never saw
itself as responsible for having to pay
for everything. They
want to
concentrate
their
support
on
prevention."

One of Fighting Back's main goals
is to learn what New Haven needs from
the people who themselves are at risk.
The A Way Out conference scheduled
for this May will give New Haven
youth a chance to tell their peers and
the community that the problems
related to substance abuse need to be
"People are more
concerned about turf
issues than about
providing services. "
solved. Their raps, skits, and banners
are an important first step toward
raising community consciousness.

Fighting Back hopes to become
synonymous with collaboration in New
Haven. "We are not out there to say
we're the answer," Winter said. "We're
not here to take anyone over. We're
like a thread that binds existing
programs together." If New Haven does
not land the $3 million implementation
grant from the Johnson Foundation next
year, Winter believes that the program
will find other sources of funding.
"We' ll use our Johnson grant as seed
money to start the program and
continue to press for funding from other
sources," Winter said. "Fighting Back
is here to stay."
Katherine McCarron, a junior in
Calhoun College, is a managing editor
0/TNJ.


**Radio Daze: New Haven Listeners, Yale Leaders**
**Author: Wura Heymann**
**Page number(s): 18**

,,

Joey Uaoffhe New Journal



**Title: WYBC: A Balancing Act**
**Author: Laura HeymCLnn**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In its November 1990 issue, the progressive rock magazine SPIN put WYBC at the top of its list of "The Best College Radio Stations." But not everyone at the station thinks the Yale Broadcasting Company deserves the award. "The rating is ridiculous," said disc jockey Jonathan Zittrain (DC '91). "I would say not even five percent of Yale students listen to WYBC." The station management, however, has larger concerns. Unlike most college radio stations, WYBC caters to an audience beyond the University. 

With 1200 watts of power, the FM station reaches listeners as far away as Hartford. More importantly, it targets listeners with money to spend. One of the few college radio stations in the country with a commercial license, WYBC, which gets no direct funding from Yale, depends on advertising receipts to stay afloat. "Our mission is not Yale entertainment," said Caroline Drees (TC '93), general manager of WYBC. "The Yale community consists of only 10,000 people. Our music is geared to those who can generate revenues for us." 

As a result, WYBC tries to appeal to a wide spectrum of tastes. This means jazz in the morning for the drive to work, urban contemporary in the afternoon, and alternative rock for the rest of the night. It also means classical, blues, folk, and even a "Sounds of Ireland" format on the weekends. "It's a damn good station," said Manuel Rodriguez, vice president and general manager of WPLR, another local radio station. "On the FM band, no one's doing what they're doing." 

But trying to maintain this range of formats under the umbrella of one outfit makes WYBC a bit schizophrenic. Within the station, program loyalty proves divisive. "Each format at WYBC is a cohesive bunch of people," said Training Director Orin Herskowitz (SY '93). "But as a station, there's very little unity." 

While students head the Jazz and New Rock programs, New Haven residents direct and dominate Spectrum, the urban contemporary format. Spectrum, commanding eight hours of airtime each day, rakes in the most cash for the station. While other programs boast a racial mix, Spectrum's DJs are almost exclusively African-American. "The major conflicts are between Spectrum and other formats," said Ted Friedman (TD '91), New Rock program director. "Race, although it goes unstated, is as much an issue as anything else." 

Over a third of the people spinning the discs at WYBC come from New Haven. Community and student volunteers work side by side as disc jockeys and format heads. But at the managerial level, students and community members don't have an equal voice. Yale regulations protect student leadership at WYBC by requiring all the station's administrative decisions to be made by undergraduates. An Executive Board-composed of five students-runs the station, under the supervision of a Board of Governors. One non-voting member represents New Haven volunteers on the Executive Board. "It causes difficulties in some respects," said Drees. "Community members work very hard, and they have no vote. But we don't want to risk our status as an undergraduate organization." 

Some on the other side of the Ivy wall don't buy it. "Community members need a vote," said Mia Duff, Spectrum's format director. "We can say whatever we want, but when the decision is made, it doesn't matter." Spectrum DJs believe the money their program generates should buy them a voice. "Spectrum is the main source of revenue for the station," said DJ Andrew "Big Daddy" Guilford. "Our popularity in the ratings shows we deserve a vote." 

DJ opinion on station tension is as varied as the WYBC format. Although Duff feels the situation is "improving," Zittrain is more blunt. "There's constant tension between community DJs and undergraduates," he said. "The community members see the highfalutin' kids come in and have all the power. It's an adversarial system." While all station DJs are part-time workers, some New Haven DJs think students' hectic schedules make their commitment to WYBC more erratic. "We're here to really learn radio," said Guilford. "For some students, it's just a hobby. They don't take it seriously." 

During Yale vacations, the New Haven DJs run the show and keep the station operating full-time. In the summer, the absence of student DJs means that their names may not be on the tips of listeners' tongues. "It's rare to have a student DJ who is well-known in the community," said Bill Steiger (SY '91), Jazz format director. 

The University's three-month summer hiatus allows local on-air personalities to hone their craft and establish a listening base. 

Promotions such as the Spectrum SummerFest-a series of events in local parks-keep the "Spectrum Air Force" in touch with its audience. "It's over vacations that the really cool things happen," said Herskowitz. "In fact, much of what happens at WYBC happens because of the community members. They have the time and the commitment." 

In the long run, however, community members don't get more time at the station than the students. Because the Executive Board is composed entirely of undergraduates, it sees a complete turnover every four years. To keep students in power, and to insure WYBC's status as an undergraduate organization, the station added a rule to its bylaws in 1985 limiting community members to four-year stints. As a result, no New Haven DJ can use seniority as a claim to control. "The four-year rule was created by Yalies to get rid of townies as soon as they could," said Sam Tilery, former DJ at WYBC, now the promotions director for WPLR. "In my time, we all worked together." 

Community members aren't the only ones to struggle with students for control of the station. In 1989, WYBC's tremendous financial difficulties-caused primarily by student embezzlement of station funds in the early 80s-grabbed the attention of Dean Betty Trachtenburg. When the administration threatened to shut the station down, WYBC hired an executive director to run the station's daily operations and restructured its bylaws to give the Board of Governors more financial control. 

Students feared they were losing power. Determined to protect their turf, they convinced the University to release the executive director at the end of her contract. Since then, the University's involvement has been minimal, and even accommodating. Yale's administration virtually ignores the $56,000 that the station still owes the University. "We're not pressing the debt at all," said Dean Trachtenburg. "That's really on the back burner." The University may not be forcing the issue because WYBC proves quite an asset to Yale. WYBC's license from the Federal Communications Commission is worth at least $15 million alone, a value that increases daily as the number of available frequencies dwindles. "The University is not worried about the loan because the appreciation value of the station probably adds another zero," said Zittrain. "What's $56,000 in the face of $560,000?" 

WYBC's largest contribution to Yale may not be financial. Student management sees the station as a bridge to the New Haven community. "WYBC is very valuable to Yale," said Steiger. "It is one of the few tangible things that Yale can point to and say we are doing for New Haven. This is really important to the minds of the administration." A 1961 addendum to WYBC's bylaws crystallizes the image of community involvement the University wants for the station: "a communications link between the Yale community and the surrounding area, bringing the resources of the University to its neighbors, and fostering a closer contact between the two groups for the benefit of both." 

But by keeping students in charge, Yale puts definite limits on the equality of this relationship. Despite the fact that area listeners fill the station's coffers, the University sees its students as its main responsibility. While WYBC can give community members a start in radio, it can't help them go all the way. "I became very frustrated," said Tilery. "I was devoted, sometimes spending seven days a week there. But if you want to go any further in radio, you have to get out of WYBC." 


Laura HeymCLnn, a senior in Saybrook, is on the staff ofTNJ.




**Title: On Thin Ice**
**Author: Patrick Ho**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On Thin Ice 
Patrick Ho 
Friday, March 1, 2:00p.m New Haven 
Coliseum. 
The bus waits inside the Coliseum. 
Though the Nighthawks joke around 
before piling in, they know the next two 
days will either make or break their 
playoff quest. New Raven's minor-
league hockey team has spent most of 
the season in the cellar of its division, 
but the team still has an outside chance 
to make the playoffs. It's a five-hour 
drive to Portland, home of the Maine 
Mariners. On the bus, the players avoid 
talking hockey. But even now coach 
Nick Fotiu cuts through their chatter to 
discuss business. "If any of you guys 
think you can't win these two games, 
get off the fucking bus right now." 
Players immediately put on their 
"game-faces. " The bus grows silent. "Even professional 
players need to be reminded 
about the importance of winning," Fotiu explains. The 
bu_s remains qu~e~forabout ten mmutes after hmmg the road. 
The Nighthawks are the National 
Hockey League's (NHL) Los Angeles 
Kings' minor-league affiliate in the 
American Hockey League (AHL). The 
' Hawks have been the only professional 
sports team to stick by New Haven for 
the past 19 years. NHL stars like Bernie 
Nicholls (now with the New York 
Rangers), Bob Kudelski (DC '87), and 
Steve Duchesne (both with the L.A. 
Kings), all got their start with the team. 
The Nighthawks serve as a training 
ground for younger players and a pit-
stop for older ones, who are called up to 
the big leagues when needed. 
Before players earn a spot on the 
big-league roster, they must prove 
themselves on minor-league ice. AHL 
schedules are fast-paced, and the level 
of play is high. Players travel on the 
road for . weeks at a time, venturing to 
distant cities like Peoria, Kansas City 
and Kalamazoo. Many minor-1C:~ague 
teams play three games in three nights, 
in three different towns. "In college, 
you play 46 games, and that's if you go 
all the 
way 
to 
the 
national 
championship," said defenseman Rene 
Chapdelaine, who joined the 'Hawks 
last year right out of college. "Here you 
play 80. You really have to pace 
yourself." This year, Chapdelaine got 
what every minor leaguer wants-a 
shot at the big leagues. It was a short 
one, though. He played ten games with 
the Kings before the team dropped him. 
NHL teams draft players as young 
as 17. But while the draftees may have 
been superstars in high school and 
college, many still have to serve time in 
the minors before getting called up. 
Picked by the Kings when he was in 
high school, 'Hawks goaltender Robb 
Stauber had a stellar collegiate career. 
Named First-Team A ll-American, 
Stauber won the- coveted Hobey Baker 
A ward-for college hockey's top 
player-as a sophomore. Last year, 
though, he struggled through his first 
year in pro hockey because of a back 
injury. "I think I can play at the NHL 
level," Stauber said. "But I haven't 
proven it down here yet." 
4:00 P.M. Somewhere in New 
England. 
As the bus speeds to Portland, 
players settle into their bus 
routines. 
A group of five 
players hits the poker table. 
Stauber and Nighthawks broadcaster 
Dan Rusanowsky begin a best-of-seven 
match in chess. When Stauber loses the 
series, he raises the stakes, betting 
"Snuz"a lunchfor the last game. With 
goa/tending grit, Stauber rallies to win 
the game and the lunch. "Snuz always 
folds under pressure," Stauber 
comments. The bus arrives at the 
Holiday Inn in Portland at about 6:30. 
The younger guys set out to find a place 
to eat. Some of the veterans meet their 
wives for dinner. 


While the Nighthawks exist 
primarily to prepare youngsters for the 
rigors of the NHL, the team relies 
heavily on its core of veteran players. 
The veterans act as insurance for the 
Kings. While many younger players are 
not ready to play at the big-league 
level, veterans can easily fill in for 
injured NHL players. "I'm in a position 
here to fill the holes," said defenseman 
Don Dietrich, a former Chicago 
Blackhawk and New Jersey Devil. 
"When I'm needed, if I'm needed, I'm 
ready." 

More importantly, the veterans 
serve as mentors for younger players. 
"On the ice, I try to show them how to 
be consistent," said defenseman and 
assistant coach Murray Brumwell, a 
two-year NHL veteran. "Off the ice, I 
remember when I first started out, being 
away from home for the first time, and I 
try to give them some pointers. I tell 
them 'spend your money wisely, take a 
course in school or something, stay 
active.'" Many of the veterans are 
married with children, and they try to 
set an example of familial stability for 
the younger members. 

The junior teammates appreciate 
the special attention. "When the 
holidays came around and we couldn't 
go home, they were the first guys to 
say, 'Hey, come over to our house and 
we'll look after you,"' said center 
Shawn McCosh. "It's a real family 
atmosphere." 

Veterans enjoy their big-brother 
role, but it doesn't compensate for the 
knowledge that they may never return 
to full-time NHL play. Most veterans 
have college degrees and could find 
work elsewhere, but love of hockey 
keeps them playing. Jim Pavese played 
ten years in the NHL with four different 
clubs before he retired last year to work 
on Wall Street. But he quickly 
abandoned his three-piece suit to don a 
hockey sweater again. "At this point in 
my career, the job gives me a place to 
play and get my skills back," he said. "I 
could make the jump back to the NHL, 
but I would rather stay here. After 
missing a year, it would be nice to 
spend a season with just one team." 

Saturday, March 2, 
2:00 p.m. 
Cumberland County Civic Center. 
Portland, ME. 
Darryl Gilmour starts in goal 
because of his past success against the 
Mariners. The Mariners boast an 
experienced squad, including Boston 
Bruins regular Allen Pedersen. He is 
shocked at his sudden demotion, but he 
makes his presence felt with bruising 
body checks throughout the game. The 
next day the Bruins call him back. 
The 'Hawks also get some extra 
support. Decimated by injuries to key 
players, they receive two men from 
Phoenix, L.A.'s other minor-league 
affiliate. One of them, Jeff Rohlicek, 
arrives just two hours before the game. 
His equipment takes another hour to 
appear. He barely has time to suit up 
and join his teammates on the ice. 
Rohlicek later scores a goal, but he 
can't give the Nighthawks a win. 
Former 'Hawk Ken Hammond scores 
on a rush late in the third period to 
break a tie and give Maine a 4-3 
victory. The 'Hawks are frustrated, but 
the worst is yet to come-an eight-hour 
drive to Binghamton, NY. At least 
Rohlicek has his equipment for 
tomorrow's game. 

The Nighthawks suffer from a 
constant turnover of team members. 
Players bounce not only between the 
NHL and the AHL, but also among other 
teams and even other leagues. Some 
join the Nighthawks for only a few 
days-Rohlicek's stint with the team 
lasted two games before he returned to 
Phoenix. 

Some, like Graham Stanley, come 
to the 'Hawks after spending time in 
inferior professional hockey leagues. 
Passed over by NHL teams, Stanley 
played briefly in the East Coast Hockey 
League (ECHL), renowned more for its 
goonery than for its hockey skills. 
Stanley caught the Kings' eye with his 
scoring ability and physical prowess. 
His arrival at the Nighthawks brought 
him to a higher level of professional 
play. "There was·a lot more shuffling of 
players in the ECHL, two or three new 
guys everyday," he said. "In the 
'Cocktail League' we used to travel 
from Virginia to Erie, about 12 hours 
on a bus. We'd get maybe an hour of 
sleep and then go play the game. This is 
better." 

Sunday, March 3, 2:00p.m. Broome 
County Veterans Memorial Arena. 
Binghamton, NY. 
In the locker room before the 
game, the players seem psyched, 
gossiping about Binghamton bars and 
guys on the Ranger team. But psyched 
or not, the 'Hawks aren't prepared for 
the Ranger blitzkrieg. Pavese injures 
his groin in the first period and does 
not return to the game. To stir up the 
'Hawks, Captain Dennis Smith gets into 
a scuffle with Dennis Vial of the 
Rangers, but he hurts his neck in the 
fight. The Rangers bombard goalie 
Stauber with 15 shots in the first 
period, finding the net four times. Ron 
Scott replaces Stauber, but Binghamton 
scores three more tallies to win 7-2. It's 
the Nighthawks' fifth consecutive loss. 
The playoffs now seem a distant dream, 
and most of the players just want to 
sleep. With the NHL trading deadline 
approaching, some speculate that a few 
Binghamton players will join the New 
York Rangers soon. There is no similar 
talk in the Nighthawk camp. 

Even for some of the most talented 
players, the dream of playing in the NHL 
remains just that-a dream. Signed by 
the New York Rangers in 1983, Ron 
Scott was billed as "the goalie of the 
future." For the next seven seasons, 
however, he bounced back and forth 
between New Haven and New York, 
never getting a real opportunity to 
prove himself in either place. The 
Rangers felt they had enough goalies. 
Even a strong finish with the L.A. 
Kings last year did not earn Scott a spot 
in the club. "I'm not bitter about 
anything that's happened," he said, "but 
I would have liked a better chance. For 
anybody to be'successful, someone 
along the line has to say, 'Hey, this 
guy's got 40 games to prove what he 
can do."' 

Forward Scott Harlow also fell into 
the minor-league rut. A two-time All-
American at Boston College, he 
graduated as the school's all-time 
leading scorer. Three of his teammates 
have become NHL stars, and he thinks 
he should join them. ''I'm frustrated 
because I haven't really gotten the 
chance yet," Harlow said. "I'm happy 
doing my job. Hockey has been good to 
me. I got a house out of hockey and a 
free education, but honestly, all I want 
is that chance. If I can't do it, hey, fine. 
I'll pick up my hockey skates and hang 
them up in the garage." 

8:00 p.m. Somewhere in upstate New 
York. 
As the bus rumbles home, players 
get back to their normal routines. 
Stauber wants to take everyone on in 
chess. Bob, the Nighthawks' bus driver, 
gets everyone back to the city at 9:45, 
almost an hour ahead of schedule. A 
great job as usual, the players 
comment. They head home to get some 
sleep for tomorrow's 9:00 a.m. 
practice. 
18) 
Patrick Ho is a senior in Saybrook 
College.


**Title: Mental Hygiene: A Clean Bill of Health?**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the spring of Wendy's ftrst year at Yale, a painful break-up 
with her boyfriend led her to visit Mental Hygiene, the 
psychological counseling department of Yale University 
Health Services (UHS). As the daughter of a recovered cocaine 
addict, Wendy had considered therapy before but had never 
followed through. Her frantic state finally convinced her to 
seek help. After one session, the counselor told her to come 
back in the fall. Although Wendy joined Mental Hygiene's 
group for children of substance abusers, she did not return for 
private treatment. 


Yale's counseling service has two functions: handling 
emergencies and providing long-term therapy. Along with 
private counseling, Mental H ygiene staffs a 24-hour 
emergency hotline. It also provides each residential college 
with a liaison counselor, to whom Freshman Counselors and 
deans can tum with questions. For campus-wide crises, the 
service offers special sessions. After the death of Christian 
Prince (PC '93) in February, for instance, a counselor met 
with Prince's lacrosse teammates. 


Mental Hygiene's main function is to provide weekly 
counseling sessions. "We are here to deal with acute 
problems, but we also have a mission to help students better 
understand themselves," said Dr. Lorraine Siggons, director 
of Mental Hygiene. "College is a good time to be thinking 
"Yale's policy is very difficult for 
students. If you don't decide to go 
in September, you're up a tree. " 
about one's self--one's wishes, aspirations, and past." The 
department provides students with up to four months of once-
a-week treatment each year. Students average nine visits, 
more sessions than most universities. But long-term treatment 
for some means fewer open slots for people like Wendy, 
whose problems do not seem urgent to the counselor at the 
initial appointment. Many students who request treatment 
after September go on a waiting list for four to eight weeks. 
For students who are reluctant to try therapy, waiting can 
shatter already tentative resolve. "I'm the kind of person who 
26 THE NEW JOURNAL 
has trouble asking for help," Wendy said. "When the 
counselor told me to wait, I thought I was being 
melodramatic." Rebecca went to Mental Hygiene to sort out a 
difficult housing situation for the upcoming year. She stuck 
out a two-month wait, but because 'the time for housing 
decisions had already passed, she felt sheepish about entering 
treatment when .her turn came. "I decided to go anyway 
because there were other things I wanted to work <:>ut," sbe 
said. "But when I felt really distraught and needed someone 
to talk to, they just weren't there." 


· 
Still, the co-coordinators of Yale's peer couns.eling 
service Walden, Margot Klimczak (BK '92) and Craig 
Motlong (CC '92), believe that Mental Hygiene does an 
excellent job. "Whenever I've dealt with them I've been 
impressed," Motlong said. "And I've heard only positive 
feedback from students." A Mental Hygiene counselor 
supervises training at Walden. Peer counselors often send 
students who need long-term therapy to Mental Hygiene. 
According to Klimczak, such !l referral usually translates into 
less time on the waiting list. 


Sarah bypassed the waiting list entirely. She called for an 
appointment last March when she was depressed and drinking 
heavily. Within three days, she began treatment that 
continued for the rest of the semester. "At the time, I wasn't 
sure if I had a problem," Sarah said. ''They told me I was in 
trouble and were willing to begin therapy immediately." 


Siggons claims that only some students get the 
immediate care that Sarah received because Mental Hygiene 
lacks office space for more counselors. However, Siggons 
believes that Yale allots Mental Hygiene an adequate budget. 
"We could always use more money and space," she said. 
"But the resources the University commits are certainly more 
than at some other schools." Siggons believes that Yale's 
high number of average visits justifies the delay in services. 
Sarah thinks that explanation is a cop-out. "For someone 
who's feeling fragile, having to wait can be really hard," she 
said. "Depression is such a big problem at Yale that the 
administration should put more effort into dealing with it. 
The waiting list is not inevitable. Someone is malting a 
choice about how many counselors to hire." 


Other colleges emphasize providing services to as many 
students as possible rather than long-term treatment for each 
student. Dede Laveran, a counselor at Bryn Mawr, believes 
this policy works. "We can deal with a lot of problems 
APRD..l9, 1991 


satisfactorily in six visits," she said. At small colleges like 
Bryn Mawr, every student receives treatment within a few 
days. "Yale's policy is very difficult for students," said 
Laveran. "If you don't decide to go in September, you're up a 
tree. And the crisis times come later in the year." At larger 
universities such as Harvard, Duke, and the University of 
Pennsylvania, no one waits more than ten days for treatment, 
although students average fewer visits than at Yale. 


To relieve the pressure on their counseling services, some 
universities refer students to community clinics. These clinics 
"It sounds like you're going to 
have your soul scrubbed or 
something. " 
have sliding-scale fees, charging patients according to their 
income. Boston has several well-respected clinics, said Dr. 
Randoph Catlin, head of Harvard Psychiatries. Penn also uses 
local services, although Penn counselor Zoe Friedberg does 
not have the same confidence in Philadelphia's clinics that 
Catlin has in Boston's. "I've heard mixed reviews of the 
clinics," she said. "But realistically we don't have the staff to 
handle long-term therapy." New Haven has only one public 
clinic: the Connecticut Mental Health Center. But the state 
has set up this facility for people who are poor and mentally 
iU, leaving few openings for Yale students. 


Durham, North Carolina, home of Duke University, also 
suffers from a dearth of public clinics. Duke's Counseling and 
Psychological Services (CAPS) fills this void by referring 
students to its Medical School's Psychiatric Outpatient 
Service. Post-doctoral interns staff the service for nominal 
fees in return for job experience. "CAPS is not set up for 
treatment lasting more than one semester," said Rolph 
Pinkerton, assistant director of CAPS. "But the Outpatient 
Service takes care of students who need long-term treatment 
and can't afford private therapy." Although post-doctoral 
interns at Yale work at Mental Hygiene, the Medical School 
offers no outpatient service equivalent to the Duke program. 
Faculty doctors as well as interns staff Yale's Psychiatric 
Department Clinic, charging $80-90 an hour. 
APRIL 19. 1991 
THE NEW JOURNAL 27

**A F€MINI5r BOOK STOR£**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A F€MINI5r BOOK STOR£ 
91S STATE ST.,NEW HAVEN,OTSII im•1601-
Boo!« 
O'vtmic 
3cwdr!f 
Gifts 
By· FOIUt9l/Jor& 
'Women-


**Mental Hygiene: A Student's Perspective**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

Like most university counseling 
services, Mental Hygiene is free. But 
when students have completed the 
maximum four months of treatment, or 
are on the waiting list, Mental Hygiene 
can only refer them to private therapists. 
For students who cannot afford visits 
that cost an average of $100 ao hour, 
the lack of alternatives to private 
therapy poses a problem. Mental 
Hygiene, however, does not abandon 
those they see as extreme cases, and 
some New Haven therapists will agree 
to a partial reduction in fees for 
financially strapped students. 

For students who want and can 
afford private treatment, Mental 
Hygiene counselors routinely make 
referrals. But policy limits these 
referrals. to therapists who do not work 
at UHS-meanirig that students ~annot 
add private visits with the same 
counselor to their weekly tr:eatment. 
"Our referral policy is intended to avoid 
conflicts of interest," said Siggons. She 
believes that allowing Mental Hygiene 
counselors to see students privately 
would suggest that counselors were 
using the service to recruit patients. 

Both Harvard and Bryn Mawr offer a 
combination of university-sponsored 
and private therapy. "For the people 
who need to see someone twice a week 
or more, our counselors are doing the 
college a service by agreeing to see 
them privately," said Bryn Mawr's 
Laveran. "It benefits the students by 
giving therapy continuity." 

In addition to the waiting list, 
impersonal evaluations at Mental 
Hygiene also discourage students who 
are unsure about pursuing treatment. 
Coaxed by friends who noticed she had 
stopped eating, Allison went to Mental 
Hygiene last year. "I had misgivings 
about going," she said. ''The counselor I 
saw confirmed my worst fears. He made 
me feel that ' ' my problem was 
insignificant, which really undermined 
my faith that therapy was the right . 
action to take." 

Rebecca d~scribed her evaluation 
as a slap in the face. "I was very 
depressed, and having to answer a.Jot of 
questions about whether there was 
insanity in my family and how many 
brothers and sisters I had made me feel 
like a case study," she said. "And then, 
after pouring out my whole life, they 
told me I had to wait." 

Students list other complaints about 
Mental Hygiene. The office's location 
on the third floor of UHS right across the 
hall from Student Health, does not 
afford much privacy. "It's strange to be 
on the elevator with someone you know 
and then tum left instead of right when 
you get out," said Rebecca. "There's 
still enough prejudice about therapy that 
people might think you're weird." At 
Duke, CAPS moved to the building that 
houses the Career Development Center 
to make students feel more comfortable. 

Other students find that the name 
Mental Hygiene itself conjures up odd 
images. "It sounds like you're going to 
have your soul ~crubbed or something," 
said Wendy. 

Student evaluation of university 
health services ultimately rests on the 
success of their experience. "When I 
ask Duke students about the quality of 
care at CAPS, I get a lot of different 
answers," said Chris Bragg, former 
head of PISCES, a peer counseling 
service at Duke. "It's important to 
remember that counseling is a very 
individual experience based on a 
personal relationship." Mental Hygiene 
addresses this issue by allowing 
students to switch counselors if 
necessary. 

Naomi, who avoided Yale's 
waiting list by signing up for therapy in 
September, believes her treatment has 
been helpful. "I've heard a lot of 
negative things about Mental Hygiene, 
but I really like my therapist, and that's 
what counts," she said. For Allison, 
Mental 
Hygiene provided only 
disappointment. ''I'm eating normally 
now," she said. "But I still have the 
same grief and mind-set, which kills me 
because I took the step of going to UHS 
and asking for help. I should have 
gotten it." 

Emily Bazelon, a sophomore in Pierson 
College, is an associate editor ofTNJ. 
Wendy , Rebecca, Sarah, Allison, and 
Naomi are psuedonyms. 


ORANGE & ELM 
SHOE REPAIR 
233 Orange Street 
across from the Hall of Records 
Grand Opening Special! 
Repair 1 pr. of ladies lifts 
get 2nd pair at 
1/2 price 

Fearuring 
our Famous 
Cll.eese 
Steak& 
Carmen 
Special Subs 
Mon., Thurs. 
12PM,2AM 
278 Park Street 
Fri. 12PM,JAM 
Sat. 5PM,JAM 
Sun. 5PM,2AM 
782..()857 

Rosev·s 
TAILORS & CLEANERS 
Est. 1888 
82 Wall St. 
562-8336 
FREE BOX COLD STORAGE 
-suits 
-drapes 
-overcoats 
-spreads 
-sweaters 
-down garments 
-down comforters 
ocomforters 
"Chair covers 
1blankets 
HANGING INSURED 
COLD STORAGE 
-cashmere 
ofurcoats 
-leather 
-suede 
-custom Alteration 
•Re·Waterproofing 
•Sweaters Repaired 
•Down Garments Cleaned 
oChamios Elbows 
•Suede & Leather Cleaning 
•Pants Tapered 
-custom Cleaning 
-Lapels Narrowed 
-Linings Replaced 
CLEANED-STORED 
11 month time limit 
Storage Insurance Policy to every student 
and faculty member. 
Insurance policy insures against fire, theft, 
moths, mildew, and floods. 


**Book Reviews: Terminal Blues**
**Author: Matt Fleischer**
**Page number(s): 30**

The Nature of Work, edited by Kai 
Erikson and Steven Peter Vallas. Yale 
University Press, 386 pages. $35.00. 
Bad Attitude, edited by Chris Carlsson 
with Mark Leger. Verso, 285 pages. 
$19.95. 
If you have a college degree, you 
won't be doing manual labor: this is 
one of the tacit understandings of 
contemporary work. The Nature of 
Work, 
a 
collection of earnest 
sociological essays, pries into such 
assumptions. The volume's writers 
examine class divisions in our society, 
try to account for patterns of 
unemployment, and discuss the futures 
of dirty industry and high technology. 
Their 
many 
questions 
about 
occupations, industries, and class 
relations all 
Long before I had a paying job, I saw 
an 
un-
forgettable 
w a r r a n t 
episode o 
t h or o u g h 
the game 
consider-
checkerboard, 
the 
s h o w 
at ion-if 
television, the Sunday drive with the 
M a t c h 
you are a 
kids. Nowadays most people survive on 
G a m e . 
p o 1 i c y 
their wages, not their work. The 
Wearing a 
consultant. 
workplace, the work hours, and the 
s 
i 
1 k 
But what if 
division of labor are all out of their 
s moking 
you are 22 
control. They focus their energy on 
jacket, ham 
and· about to 
their free time. 
a c t o r 
take 
Char I e s 
office job 
N e I so n 
that's 
as 
R e i 1 1 y 
confining as 
squawked 
s c h o o I : 
from his ce"l'"e'b-r""=it-y-.-b_o_o-:;th',-;-;"Y''v-e-.b-e-e-n--as-s ... 
ign-ed-.-s-e-a-:-ts-,-w-o..,rk,..,d'e-ad;-;!lines, a stream 
working on the railroad, all the livelong 
of awkward rituals like pencil-
day." Work in the United States has 
sharpening? 
changed; unless you're a Hollywood 
The Nature of Work still brings 
Famous case in point: William Carlos 
entertainer it's hard to sing about it any 
you several pieces of news. While we 
Williams, doctor and poet. Williams 
more. Work songs like "Working in a 
see the blue-collar worker as the 
merged the two well-he liked 
Coalmine," "John Henry," and 
prototypical American, the average 
pediatrics, and his art embraced 
"Working on the Railroad," once were 
worker will soon sit in front of a 
everyday activity. But his contemporary 
sung on the job by some muscular 
computer. A step up, supposedly, yet in 
Wallace Stevens, who spent his days at 
Paradiddle Joe while his back pearled 
many ways the only difference is the 
an insurance company, was more 
sweat. In contrast, today's work songs 
slightly higher pay. Sitting,...-----------,uncomfortable with the 
are sung after work: "Take This Job 
in a cubicle may be as 
division between poetry 
and Shove It." "9 to 5," and "Working 
stultifying as standing on 
and office: "It seems 
for 
Weekend." 
Rhythmic 
production line; given tha 
insincere, like playing a 
complaints are inconceivable under 
"work" is probably bes 
part, to be one person on 
fluorescent lighting and quiet Muzak. 
defmed as "useful activity," 
paper and another in 
Besides, singing beyond the confines of 
each may be an equally pal 
reality." 
your cubicle may well be against 
pretender. 
Why 
can' t 
we 
company policy. 
To most Americans 
rededicate ourselves to 
For children sitting in school, work 
of all color collars-"work" 
work in our society? 
is a mystery of the adult world, with 
suggests not useful activity 
Erikson, quoting the 
magical potential-"My daddy," 
but daily humiliation an 
lapsed Marxist Andre 
announces little Justin, "works in an 
violence to body and spirit. 
Gorz, asserts that we no 
office!" While college students usually 
In his still-indispensible 
longer have a working 
have fewer illusions about the nuts-and-
book Working, Studs Terkel 
class but a "non-class of 
bolts of the working world, they have 
chronicled Americans' 
non-workers- an 
only a slightly clearer picture of what 
growing disenchantment with their 
amorphous mass of the chronicaJly 
they' ll face between nine and five. It 
work. Fifteen years later, Kai Erikson's 
unemployed and underemployed, 
will be better than school, right? I'm 
opening essay in The Nature of Work, 
whose skills are no longer of apparent 
go n n a get paid. right? In the great 
"All gTllplrics rrprot~J«%11 with perm;.ion from Proc:eS6ol Worlll Mllpzirte'' 
division of labor, what will I do? 
"On Work and Alienation," nimbly 
traces the restrictive, draining, and 
emotionally paralyzing world of 
assembly lines and computerized work 
stations. Erikson claims that a growing 
mass of people have shunned the notion 
that work deserves an ethic of 
dedication. Instead, they "turn to 
activities outside the sphere of paid 
work for a sense of meaning and 
identity." 
Americans often view human 
activity along a work-or-leisure 
dichotomy: life is either tie-tight-and-
top-button-buttoned office work, or 
parasol-and-sunscreen relaxation. What 
matters to workers, claims Erikson, is 
leisure-the 
Free time dominates one of the 
better essays in the book, Stanton 
Wheeler's "Double Lives." Wheeler, a 
Yale law professor and accomplished 
musician, investigates Americans' 
detachment from their paid jobs. He 
profiles people who routinely bounce 
between job and passionate pursuit. 



**Bad Attitude: Tales of Toil from Processed World**
**Author: Matt Fleischer**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
use in the new workplace." Shockingly, 
working conditions. "Making the 
Monte," a memoir of her experience as 
much of this majority is well educated. 
workplace nicer [and] giving workers 
a complaint clerk who opens packages 
As long as the workplace hasn't 
more responsibility ... wiJl not make our 
of peaches with hair in them and 
adapted to our skills, it will erode our 
jobs any less alienating," writes Ana 
defective cartons of Hawaiian Punch. 
sense of craft and.--------------,Logue, a contributor. "For it is 
Unlike the arid (though well-
leave us uninspired. 
capitalism itself and its 
We will be dedicated 
reduction· of life to the pursuit 
of profit that is the cause of our 
to all measure o 
of other business-our 
dissatisfaction." 
poetry, our street 
Capitalism and profit are 
hockey, our lawns, 
only one pair of a large chorus 
Rarely seeing beyond the failures 
and our shopping. 
of villains in the PW drama. 
Not work. 
Incendiary slogans pop out all 
over: a series of ads for 
PW's take on work is that toil done 
griping at the water 
dummy-company Contek under 
under orders is "deskilling," not to 
cooler, one crew o 
the motto "People Like You 
mention demeaning. There are 
workers 
Helping People Like Us Help 
alternatives for the world of work-
has 
produced 
Bad 
Ourselves;" later, a picture of 
traditional options like the commune or 
Attitude. 
More 
riot cops holding back masses 
kibbutz-that PW could make more of. 
entertaining than the 
with the caption "Making the 
Work is not inherently bad, but it must 
average manifesto, this book culls 
World Safe for Bureaucracy." Some of 
be more integrated with our other 
. graphic graffiti and Tales of Toil from 
the graphics are crude anarchism ("If 
activities and must allow us some room 
ten years of a San Francisco magazine 
the system is the answer, it must be a 
to be creative. Let's insist that the 
called Processed World. By day its 
fucking stupid question"). These stand 
nature of work in our offices keeps 
contributors sell "their only marketable 
simply as the rawer side of Processed 
changing until it is in line with human 
skill atter years of university education: 
World's wish to stir up resistance. 
needs-which might mean eliminating 
handling information." By night, they 
Worker solidarity! Smash office 
offices altogether. 
twist comic-book pranksterism around 
idiocy! Processed World is cranky. But 
I don't really like books with broad 
rebellion-bent thoughtfulness. The 
much of the writing in Bad Attitude is 
sociological themes, unless they shatter 
contributors don't merely resent the .------------------------,my preconceptions and 
need to work, as Wallace Stevens did; 
extend my sense of a 
they are disgusted by the sterility and 
subject. On this score 
mind suffocation in offices across 
The Nature of Work 
corporate America. Through their eyes 
succeeds: it is well 
the office world is a high-tech sweat 
written and accessible to 
shop, also known as the Abusement 
all who are curious. Bad 
Park. 
ttitude-a 
rarer 
Bad Attitude chronicles a realm 
treasure-is, at heart, too 
that in one contributor's phrase "buzzes 
convincing to skip. 
beige:" a hypnostatic world of 
College students about to 
electronic recordings, of stale 
enter what PW calls 
croissants, 
of 
meticulously 
wage slavery still have 
systematized dungeons charitably 
their 
go-getter 
called offices. These souls try to be 
personalities, hopes for 
detached from their paid work, but they 
personal opportunity, 
are so repulsed that they can't merely 
and 
sense 
zone out-their jobs warrant protest 
accomplishment. If you 
and agitation. In short, a coordinated 
suspect that a year of 
surge of bad attitude. 
being treated like solid 
The 
Processed 
World 
waste matter by 
a 
revolutionaries lead double lives, in the 
company would start to 
sense that Stanton Wheeler intends. 
get you down, peek at 
Wheeler believes that, because work is 
Bad Attitude before you 
as touching or reflective as the graphics 
slip into debasement. Maybe you'll find 
was, we can devote ourselves to other 
are provocative. Linda Thomas's "It's 
a way out. 
preoccupations. The PW writers' 
A Business Doing Pleasure With You" 
preoccupation is not diversionary but 
is a harrowing catalog of sexploitation. 
subversionary: 
educating 
Paxa Lourde calls for a renewed 
organizing workers to overthrow their 
connection to our food in "Dear Del 
APRIL 19, 1991 
Matt Fleischer is a junior in Trumbull 
College. 
THE NEW JOURNAL 31


**Make Money, Not War**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

The Next Century. David Halberstam. 
William Morrow, $16.95. 126 pages. 
America's militarism will cause its 
decline. 
In The Next Century, David 
Halberstam, a Pulitzer Prize-winning 
journalist, speculates that Japan's 
economic strength will soon present the 
greatest threat to America's national 
security. Halberstam believes that with 
the end of the Cold War, militarism has 
become obsolete. The new international 
"battles," he says, will be fought over 
education, economics, and technology. 
On all three fronts, Halberstam 
sees the u.s. failing because the country 
has become a war machine, eager to 
attack problems abroad while ignoring 
them at home. "Our political system is 
still based philosophically on the glory 
days of hegemony, but our economic 
(and social) system is stumbling 
clumsily in the early days of the 
new international economy," 
he writes. "The result is a 
society oddly oblivious 
of of its new realities, a 
people and a nation 
living above their 
heads, 
politicians 
who dare 
not tell the 
truth to the 
population." 
Halberstam's 
description rings painfully 
especially in light of the 
s&L scandal, the growing gap 
between rich and poor, and a decade of 
record deficit spending. 
While the u.s. strives to maintain 
its military hegemony, its economic 
empire slips into decline. Halberstam 
clearly considers military foreign policy 
a waste of time in a new world order 
32 THE NEW jOURNAL 
powered by the microchip, fiber optics, 
and multinational conglomerates. He 
believes that an integrated international 
economy will bring world peace. It 
hasn't so far, however; the inherently 
peaceful new economy just caused a 
war in the Persian Gulf. He simply 
ignores this paradox. The deployment 
of u.s. troops to the Persian Gulf, well 
underway when Halberstam wrote his 
book, merits scarcely a paragraph. 
"Even if we win that war, we may 
lose 
in 
more subtle and 
complicated ways," he warns, 
without further elaboration. 
In hindsight, the 
events of the Gulf War 
d i s ·p· r o v e 
Halberstam·~ 
worldwide, 
shows no signs 
of abating. Whether 
Halberstam likes it or 
not, militarism provides a 
crucial base for America's self-
image and foreign policy. By sheer 
force in the Gulf War, the country has 
preserved its dominant position among 
world powers. Perhaps u.s. military 
power will wane as Japan and Germany 
surge past America economically, but 
for now might still makes right. 
And for now, winning wars abroad 
seems to make America feel better 
about a disintegrating society at home. 
Last summer, 
President Bush's 
popularity plummeted after the budget 
crisis and his vetoes of the Civil Rights 
and Family Leave bills. Now, the victor 
in a lightning war, he is the most 
popular president in American history. 
A country that can rule the world need 
not worry about racial strife and 
latchkey kids. A country that boasts 
about 
crushing 
Saddam Hussein 
can ignore the 
fact 
that 
many of 
its own 
cities· 
resemble 
the ravaged 
Kuwait 
City. 
ntil a miraculous 
economic and social 
healing occurs in, this 
country, militarism is the crutch 
upon which the American ego l«~ans. 
Halberstam argues convincingly 
that the u.s. must learn to succeed 
without that crutch. He wants to 
abandon militarism completely and 
substitute greater educational and 
economic competitiveness in its 
place-the standard "peace dividend" 
line. But he offers no suggestions about 
how to bring the u.s. into the 21st 
century without fueling a tremendous 
American inferiority complex. He 
seems to feel that if America will only 
stop building bombers, everything will 
be peachy. In an economy where the 
military and defense industry provide 
millions of jobs, and in a world where 
many look to the u.s. as global 
policeman, Halberstarn's view is 
simplistic. 
He does make a convincing case 
for dismissing the Soviet Union as an 
enemy. Halberstam argues that for 
nearly 50 years America has wasted its 
resources fighting the Cold War. Now it 
appears that the Soviet Union has been 
a vastly overrated foe. 
As it 
disintegrates, Halberstam fears that the 
USSR may pull America into the ashes 
alongside it, if the u.s. continues to 
APRIL 19,1991 

--- Page 33 ---

view national security in military terms. 
Both America and the Soviet 
Union have lost the Cold War, 
according to Halberstam's definition of 
national security as an index of social 
and economic well-being. Victory has 
gone to a noncombatant, Japan. "As the 
Cold War was ending, those immune to 
it, or skilled at paying lip service and 
getting on with their new agenda, like 
the Japanese, prospered," he writes. 
Because Japan was demilitarized 
after World War II, it has poured all of 
its resources and nationalist spirit into 
becoming 
an 
economic 
giant. 
Halberstam noticed the trend as a 
correspondent. in Saigon during the 
Vietnam war. "My clearest memory 
from 1967, pre-Tet, was thousands of 
Americans wandering around Saigon in 
combat gear and hundreds of Japanese 
businessmen in their civilian clothes 
doing business in the city's best hotels 
eating 
at 
new 
Japanese 
restaurants," he recalls. "We were 
obsessed with the Cold War and now 
the Hot War, but the Japanese were 
obsessed with commerce." 
In Halberstarn's vision of the 21st 
century, Japan will dominate, followed 
by Germany. With their well-educated 
workers and self-sacrificing drive to 
succeed, he says, the two countries 
simply can't lose. By contrast, 
Halberstam describes the u.s. as soft, 
He seems to feel that 
if America will only 
stop building 
bombers, everything 
will be peachy. 
overconfident, lazy. The country bas 
lost the entrepeneurial spirit it once bad. 
"Three generations of affluence ... in turn 
created a culture of high expectations, 
which in tum created a politics based 
on high assumptions and high 
consumption. What had started in the 
early fifties as a sense of possibilities 
gradually became expectations and then 
finally entitlement." Americans now 
live for pleasure and self-gratification 
more than for · freedom and equality. 
Compared 
to 
Japan, 
says 
Halberstam, the U.·S. lacks vision, drive 
and know-how when dealing with 
education and the economy. But be 
offers no concrete solutions for the 
problems he attacks. As a pluralistic 
society in every sense, America can 
hardly model itself on Japan, a nation 
so tightly knit, he argues, that its 
citizens consider themselves a separate 
race. Without a course of action, 
Halberstam sounds like just another 
liberal reciting a familiar litany of 
societal ills. 
Halberstam writes in vague 
generalizations, relying on anecdotes 
and personal impressions rather than 
cold hard facts to back up his 
assertions. He wants to provoke thought 
and debate about America's problems; 
be never claims to have all the answers 
to them. Still, some solutions would be 
nice. Moreover, Halberstam is 
hopelessly naive if he expects America 
to abandon militarism immediately and 
entirely. As the recent war with Iraq 
indicates, war spurs American 
nationalism as economics fuel Japanese 
nationalism. Such a nationalistic force 
may be impossible to replace, even if it 
drags America as far down as 
Halberstam believes it will. As the 
situation worsens at home, Americans 
may turn gladly to wars abroad. The 
u.s. doesn't seem ready to abandon 
militarism and cure its societal ills. 
At a time when most of America is 
wrapped in the flag, bailing Bush's 
militaristic 
New 
Order, 
Halberstarn cautions that success abroad 
cannot erase, and may even undermine, 
success at home. He has an excellent 
point. But as long as Americans measure 
success by wars won, not GNP gained, 
Halberstarn's warnings will fall on deaf 
ears. 
181 
Kathy Reich, a sophomore in Pierson 
College, is a managing editor ojTNJ.

**Title: Evacuated**
**Author: Nina Revoyr**
**Page number(s): 34**

APRIL 19, 1991


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the summer, Kenji nailed soup-can lids against the 
night their sounds bled through the wall, their murmuring and 
holes in the wall to keep out the swirling dust. Now, in 
whispering and coughing and crying followed her into her 
November, the wind blew snow and pieces of ice against the 
dreams. 
side of the barracks. The ice hit hard, a winter assault, ticking 
Four months before, Yoshi had lost her daughter and 
out the seconds, hours, days. From the inside the child stood 
husband, Kenji his sister and father, in the space of eleven 
on her toes, reaching up and pressing the backs of her fingers 
days. The girl had died in the camp hospital giving birth, the 
against the soup lids to feel the shock of the cold. Yoshi 
blood draining out of her, her tiny body deflating. The old 
watched the child from the corner. Next to her, the oil furnace 
man, already bent and weary, died of heartbreak ten days 
hummed and purred like an old cat. When Yoshi grew tired, 
later. He stopped eating and grew smaller; Yoshi pressed 
or when she wanted to be alone, she glanced across the room 
against him and felt his ribs pushing out of his skin, his chest 
at Kenji, her son. He nodded and held his hand out to the 
a metal washboard, the bones spaced, hard, even. It was only 
child, and together they -----------------------a week after they buried him in 
disappeared into the storm, out p 
h 
h h 
h d h 
the camp cemetery that the child 
toward the Children's Village, ast t e C UrC t ey reac e t e 
came and sat on their steps. 
two blocks away. 
d 
if h 
h b 
b d 
Yoshi had been talking to her 
Yoshi used to work in thee ge 0 t e camp, t e ar e 
dead husband in her head when 
fields, but then her muscles 
• 
h l 
· 
if 
l 
she saw her, and for this reason 
stopped working, deadened in wzre, t e ong strzngs 0 meta 
s he thought the child was a 
~er body, refused. Now sh~ sat with teeth They looked out at the ghost. She picked her up that 
m the room all day and wruted. 
first evening and lifted her 
At 11:00 Kenji left for the brOWn land and the mOUntainS 
eyelids with her thumbs, 
mess hall to cook; at 7:00 he 
looking into the bottomless 
returned wit.h fresh egg~ and standing silent behind it They 
black eyes. She asked the 
bread, sometimes only shghtly 
child's name and the child said 
spoiled fruit, so that his mother SaW the endlessneSS oif it 
nothing. Kenji came home from 
would not have to eat the runny 
' 
cooking and bounced the child 
piles of gray, the limp slabs of Cali+ornia desert ground and sky on his knee. She didn't laugh, 
brown 
he 
prepared 
for 
'-./( 
did not even smile, only 
ever~one else. It wa~ always onening un into each other. 
watched him, eyes of wisdom. 
freezmg; when Yosht opened r 
r 
"Orphan," said Kenji when she 
her door the cold air slapped 
wouldn't take his hand. Later he 
her face. The wind that pressed the dust into every crack of 
took her to the Children's Village, the camp orphanage, and 
her skin in the summer lifted the snow from the ground 
handed her back to the bowing nuns. 
now-whiter, colder dust, a freezing hell; the wind sucked 
The child came back every day, and Yoshi was glad for 
the water from her eyes. Kenji stuffed rolled paper into the 
the company. In the fall, before the ground froze, Yoshi sat 
door frame to shut out the air but the cold still rose from the 
on the front stair and watched the child play. Before he died, 
ground. But they were lucky, they were only two; on the 
her husband had made a small clearing in front of the 
other side of the wall lived a family of eight, the cries of the 
barracks, three tufts of bush next to the stairs, the whole 
young ones rising in a chorus as they sat huddled in their 
space bound by rough white stones as if it were a garden. 
single room. Yoshi talked to them sometimes in the day. At 
Yoshi gave the child an old spade with most of the handle 
APRIL 19, 1991 
THE NEw JocR.'"AL 35 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
broken off and watched her sink it into 
the dusty ground. In the winter when it 
wasn't too cold, the child used it to slice 
into the snow, or to chip away at the ice 
frozen thick on the stairs. The wooden 
The wooden handle, 
one chunk chipped 
out of it, was barely 
long enough to fit the 
child's hand, the 
blade so clean the 
sun gleamed off the 
metal. 
handle, one chunk chipped out of it, was 
barely long enough to fit the child's 
hand, the blade so clean the sun 
gleamed off the metal. Every day the 
child brought the spade with her when 
Yoshi led them both to the cemetery; 
there the child ran laughing through the 
graves as Yoshi spoke to her family, 
prayed that she would join them, that 
the winter and the war would spare the 
only one she had left, her son. 

Yoshi was always cold. Even when 
she lay in her cot under a mountain of 
clothes, even when Kenji held her so 
tight she thought he would crush her 
spine, even when she sat so close to the 
stove her skin blistered red from the 
heat, she felt the chill down to the 
bottom of her bones. She dressed now 
in men's clothes, khaki trousers and 
peacoats and green earmuffs left over 
from World War I, black boots and knh 
caps the officials handed out after three 
people died of exposure; huge, ugly 
clothing everyone had to take because 
they had nothing else, because they had 
only been allowed to bring what they 
could carry. Kenji wore his cook's shirt, 
an old army jacket, and the same pair of 
gray work pants every day. The child 
wore a blue button-up sweater that hung 
off of her, an old woman's sweater, 
trailing almost to the ground like a 
dress. The child was never cold because 
she never stopped moving. In the 
36 THE NEW JOURNAL 
daytime she ran around and around the 
barracks, past the hundreds of families 
boxed inside, past the bare trees that 
reached out to her with their spindly, 
skinny fingers, through the line of 
people outside the mess hall whose 
words rose in a white mist like one 
huge collective breath, through the 
shadow of the guard tower that stood a 
few hundred feet away. The shadow 
pushed down on everybody, even when 
there was no sun. 

Kenji knew also that the child was 
a ghost. But this did not stop him from 
holding her upside down, from 
bouncing her on top of his knees. 
Sometimes when the silence in the 
room grew so large he thought it would 
swallow him, he left his mother and 
took the child, walked her around the 
camp. They walked slowly, knowing 
there was only so much they could see, 
he singing to Jhe child in a voice that 
made old men nod their beads and 
smile. Sometimes he was interrupted by 
the ringing of the bells, announcing a 
birth or a death or a meeting. The child 
took everything in as they walked. She 
saw other children run by her, laughing; 
sometimes they would stop in front of 
her and stare. She saw young women 
lean their heads together in doorways. 
She saw boys playing stickball, and 
older women with their faces powdered 
white with flour, silent phantoms. 
Together she and Kenji walked past the 
Buddhist church, a tar-paper covered 
building like every other except for the 
sign on the top and the white doors 
flung open like the arms of a loved one. 
Past the church they reached the edge 
of the camp, the barbed wire, the long 
strings of metal with teeth. They looked 
out at the brown land and the mountains 
standing silent behind it. They saw the 
endlessness of it, California desert, 
ground and sky opening up into each 
other. There the child let Kenji hold one 
of her tiny hands; with the other she 
tapped the wires with her spade. 

Sometimes, while the child thrust 
her hand through the gaps in the floor 
and tried to touch the ground, Y oshi 
and Kenji would argue. She worried 
about the unease that had been rippling 
through the camp, worried it would 
build into a wave, that her only son 
would be picked up by the momentum, 
carried, smashed against the ground. 
"We must be patient," she told him, 
"Good will come." He shook his head 
from side to side as the child pulled 
brown weeds up from the cracks 
between the floorboards. 

Kenji worried about his mother 
almost as much as his mother worried 
about him. With each week that passed 
she spoke Jess, as if opening her mouth 
would Jet in more of the cold, as if grief 
could not be carried by language. She 
sat silently and made clothes for the 
child, cutting and sewing and pinning 
her daughter's old dresses and sweaters. 
Kenji would pull a chair up in front of 
her and place his fists on her knees, 
trying to get her to meet his eyes. When 
she wouldn' t'look back he moved 
across the room and sat on his cot. The 
child came over anq imitated him, 
Yoshi was always, 
cold. Even when· she 
lay in her cot under a 
mountain of clothes, 
eve'! when Kenji held 
her so tight she 
thought he would 
crush her spine, even 
when she sat so close 
to the stove her skin 
blistered red from the 
heat, she felt the chill 
down to the bottom of 
her bones. 
smiling. She pounded her little fists 
against his knees and then touched his 
face. His eyebrows were the width of 
her fmger, caterpillars crawling across 
his brow. 

Kenji put his hand on top of the 
APJUL 19, 1991 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Nina Revoyr**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
child's head and stared at the shrunken 
form of his mother. It was hardest on 
the old people; the walls of the barracks 
closed in on them most tightly. Kenji 
brought the best things home from the 
mess hall but Yoshi' s bowels still 
protested against the greasy, tasteless 
food. Many days the child led Y oshi to 
the bathroom, helping carry the folding 
cardboard refrigerator box Kenji had 
given his mother to bring. There they 
waited half an hour to catch a glimpse 
of the overflowing toilets, where the 
child waited another half hour while 
Y oshi sat in silence, the cardboard box 
her only means of privacy. Kenji was 
glad the child had appeared; she made 
his mother's days go faster. Even with 
her bottomless black eyes and dirty hair 
and silent mouth, he felt in her his best 
memories of those he had lost-if she 
was a ghost, she was a good one. He 
carried her on his hip and watched her 
catch snow on her tongue; he set her 
down and watched her dig into the ice 
with the spade. 

In December, though, the wave of 
unease overtook them. Yoshi had 
known it for months, fear strangling her 
out of her sleep. 

One morning Kenji came home 
from work and told her a man had been 
beaten, an informant. One of the 
attackers had been identified, and had 
been taken away from the camp the 
night before. He was supposed to be 
brought back inside that day. When her 
son went back to work Yoshi sat 
shivering. Around the camp the 
whispers flowed like water; alone on 
her cot she could feel them. In the 
afternoon the child came and pressed 
her face against Yoshi' s shins. Soon 
Kenji came home; people were going to 
the jail to ask questions about the 
prisoner, perhaps to protest. He told this 
to his mother and then left again, pulled 
away by the growing wave. 

Yoshi gathered herself up a few 
minutes later and followed. She limped 
outside and the child trailed after her 
with the spade. She saw men waver in 
doorways and then step out to meet 
each other. The wave swelled larger, 
washed toward the center of camp. 
Yoshi walked with the child, the sky 
dark gray above her, through block 
after block of the barracks. She had lost
APJUL 19, 1991 
sight of Kenji long before. Ahead of her 
the wave lapped up to the jail, to the 
feet of the camp police standing in front 
of it. The wave grew louder, 
questioned, shouted so that the police 
could not understand. Yoshi saw the 
wave rise up, huge but harmless. Then 
she heard them, loud cracks like the sky 
was ripping open: the police were 
firing. Screams rose up around her as 
she tried to keep from being pushed 
down; young men ran past her with 
their hands pressed to their ears. Still 
the sound of the gunshots, the echoes 
welling out into the air. Y oshi pushed 
through the crowd yelling Kenji' s 
name. She pulled the peacoat around 
her and limped through people. The 
cracks of the rifles stopped but she still 
heard them. Through the wave of 
people she saw the cook's coat, the 
gray work pants: Kenji. He grabbed her 
by the arm and led her into the flow of 
the crowd, away from the jail, away 
from the screaming and now crying 
people. In the doorways of the barracks 
men shook their heads and mumbled; 
children cried and pushed against their 
legs, covering their ears against the 
echoes. Kenji led his mother through 
the barracks. When they reached their 
own they rushed in and held each other 
on Y oshi' s cot. 

Somewhere outside of Yoshi's 
head the bells began to ring, the 
meeting bells; someone was striking 
them. All night she heard them as she 
lay huddled on the cot with her son. 
Yoshi pressed her hands against the 
thick cloth that covered Kenji's chest, 
his back, his shoulders-he had been 
lucky, nothing had happened to him. 
Yoshi sank under the weight of relief. 

At dawn, when they could feel the 
darkness begin to lift, Kenji raised his 
head. He stood up and hugged his 
shoulders, turned to his mother. "Where 
is the child?" he asked. Yoshi looked at 
him; she had forgotten. "She is 
probably back at the Children's 
Village," Kenji said, but Yoshi did not 
reply. She knew that she was not. She 
knew the child had run, bad fled; she 
felt fear tum itself over in her stomach. 

Yoshi thought of the child, her 
bottomless black eyes-she would find 
her. "Where are you going?" Kenji 
asked as she made her way to the d~. 
but his mother did not answer. She 
wrapped a blanket around herself and 
stepped outside. She had to find the 
child. Even if she had to limp through 
all of the barracks, black shadows now 
against the brightening sky. Even if she 
had to go into the Children's Village 
and pull the covers back from every 
cot, she would find the child. She knew 
this, felt the certainty lodge in her mind. 

After a night with no sleep she had 
never been more awake. Deafened by 
the bells, she had never heard herself 
more clearly. Yoshi took her first steps 
onto the frozen snow and felt it crunch 
beneath her feet. She turned right and 
walked quickly, her muscles fluid 
again, muscles of a 20-year-old, still 
young. 

The camp was deserted, all the 
doors shut tight. It was emptied of life, 
a ghost town. Yoshi knew of the 
families locked inside the barracks and 
At dawn, when they 
could feet the 
darkness begin to lift, 
Kenji raised his head. 
He stood up and 
hugged his shoulders, 
turned to his mother. 
"Where is the child?" 
he asked. 
felt their deafening silence. She limped 
through snow and through dirt paths, 
the cold dry ground. Across parts of the 
camp bushes were spread like a rash. 
Scattered throughout were leafless trees 
that seemed to be shrinking, only 
skeletons. Yosbi pushed through the 
camp alone, did not see another person 
except for the tiny green figures at the 
top of the guard towers, their rifles 
pointed out like black serpents. She did 
not see any of those shut inside, they 
did not venture out to watch her pass, 
but she felt them. She felt their anger 
and sorrow in the bells that still rang 
Tm: NEW JOURNAL 37 

out all around her. She felt them with 
her as she called out to the child, longed 
for the warmth of the child's face 
against her knees. And as she circled 
back from the center of camp toward 
her own barracks again, she stopped 
feeling the others and began to feel the 
child, drawing her closer, pulling her by 
an invisible string. 

As Y oshi turned the comer to the 
back side of her own barracks, the child 
appeared before her suddenly like a 
photograph. Yoshi saw the blue sweater 
there, the tiny heap. Pressed up against 
the side of the barracks was the form of 
the child, frozen, covered with a thin 
layer of white. Yoshi ran to her. And as 
soon as she saw the child she saw the 
little hand that held the spade. There 
was a hole beneath the spade; she had 
used the. tool to dig into the frozen dirt 
right next to· the barracks, into the 
ground away from the bells and 
gunshots. The child was half-way 
inside the hole. She had tried to dig 
herself through, to escape. The tiny 
hand was frozen around the handle of 
the spade. The child was covered with 
snow. Next to her the barracks stood 
black and silent, a giant tombstone. 
Behind her, the sky was frozen white. 
Y oshi saw this all in an instant. And as 
Yoshi saw the child lying there, she felt 
a hole open up in her brain; and as she 
felt her feet pull her forward she heard 
the scream that streamed out from her 
stomach; and as the hole in her brain 
opened wider she felt it sucking in the 
sound of the bells, ringing and 
pounding against the walls of her head 
until she felt her mind explode. 

li1J 
Nina Revoyr is a senior in Berkeley 
College. 
APRIL 19, 1991 


**Title: If they hadn't given ...**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
If they hadn't given ... 
Old Campus 
. 
,, 
... Connecticut Hall might be standing in an open 
field.* All the other buildings on the Old Campus 
were constructed and later renovated with money 
donated by Yale graduates, alumni whg enjoyed their 
years at Yale and gave because they wanted to preserve 
the Yale Experience for future generations of students. 
Yale's alumni care about you. 
tYALE ALUMNI FUND 
*Connecticut Hall was built before the American Revolution with the 
proceeds from a state lottery and the sale of a captured French frigate. 
