Publication date: OCTOBER 17, 1997
Volume: 30
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- **Publisher:** Dan Murphy
- **EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:** Gabriel Snyder
- **MANAGING EDITORS:** Alec Hanley Bemis, Kavita Mariwalla
- **BUSINESS MANAGER:** justin Sacks
- **PRODUCTION MANAGER:** Lainie Rutkow
- **PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR:** Asa Piyaka
- **ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER:** Catherine Olender
- **RESEARCH DIRECTORS:** Vtznessa Agard-fones, Dorie Bo~fides
- **CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTION MANAGER:** Daphna Renan
- **CONTRIBUTING EDITOR:** Dana Goodyear, Carolint Adams, Lorm Brody, jay Dixit, Sara Harkavy, Yuki Noguchi, Gmny Taft
- **Members and Directors:** Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Brooks Kelley, Hillary Margolis, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- **Friends:** Steve Ballou, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennen, Edward B. Bennen, Jr., Edward B. Bennen III, Paul S. Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Barbara Burrell, Jay Carney, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Elisha Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Jerry and Rae Court, Mesi Denison, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Brooks Kelley, Roger K.irwood, Andrew J. Kuznesk.i,Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Hank Mansback, Martha E. Neil, Peter NeiJI, Sean O'Brien, Julie Peters, Lewis & Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Rollin Riggs, Mark Rinella, Nicholas X. Riropoulos, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sagtr, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Elizabeth & William Sledge, Thomas Suong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex & Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardell, Daniel Yergiol & Angela Srenr Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Photo essay: Night Visions - LILA SUBRAMANIAN
Serving Up Misinformation - JESSICA WINTER
The Uves Behind Welfare Reform - ELI Kl:NTISCH
On the Cutting Edge - VANESSA A GARD-JONES AND LAINIE RUTKOW
Women's Sports Are Here to Stay But at What Cost? - GENNY TAFT
From Our Perspective 
Points of Departure 
The Critical Angle: Space is the Place: The Lives and Times of Sun Ra - ALEC HANLEY BEMIS
Endnote: So, You Want to Be an Academic Superstar? - GABRIEL SNYDER


**Title: Photo essay: Night Visions**
**Author: LILA SUBRAMANIAN**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: Serving Up Misinformation**
**Author: JESSICA WINTER**
**Page number(s): 16**

With neither telephone numbers not street addresses, the food vendors near 
the Medical School try to sort out the city's plans for their future.


**Title: The Uves Behind Welfare Reform**
**Author: ELI Kl:NTISCH**
**Page number(s): 22**

A look at the day-to-day struggle of being poor in New Haven in an era 
when government assistance is disappearing and jobs are scarce.


**Title: On the Cutting Edge**
**Author: VANESSA A GARD-JONES AND LAINIE RUTKOW**
**Page number(s): 25**

The Chamber of Commerce feared a grimy sailor's den; what lower 
Chapel got was a clean, up-scale, and very now body art studio.


**Title: Women's Sports Are Here to Stay But at What Cost?**
**Author: GENNY TAFT**

Progress in women's athletics in the 25 years since Title IX has brought 
equality and opportunity but also commercialization and exploitation.


**Title: From Our Perspective**
**Author:  [Author not listed]**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Space is the Place: The Lives and Times of Sun Ra**
**Author: ALEC HANLEY BEMIS**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: Endnote: So, You Want to Be an Academic Superstar?**
**Author: GABRIEL SNYDER**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Thirty Years Young**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
We are pleased to 
note that 30 years 
ago, almost to the 
day, Volume 1, Issue 1 
of The New Journal rolled off the 
presses. But we recognize that this 
important anniversary is bittersweet. 
The end of one's twenties is 
sometimes a period of panicked 
changes. As the 30-year-old man 
notices his thinning hair, his expand-
ing gut, and his growing distaste for 
popular radio, he's bound to recall 
his faster days of youth. Adulthood 
sets in and often manifests itself in a 
desire to own a lawn mower and get 
good gas mileage. 

Here at The New Journal, howev-
er, we approach our fourth decade 
with untempered enthusiasm. Sure 
we remember our younger days, 
proud of all that we've accomplished. 
Our unrivaled 30-year stability as an 
undergraduate publication and the 
600-plus staff members who have 
moved through the masthead are 
particular points of pride. But rather 
than trying to re-live the individual 
achievements of our glorious youth, 
we're keeping ourselves committed 
to the principles that were behind all 
of those accomplishments: sound 
writing, innovative thinking, and hard 
work. With these elements we can 
confidently speed forward while 
remaining happily married to our 
past and cheerfully plodding towards 
middle age. 


**Title: Poring over the Foundation**

FOR THOSE WHOSE ONLY CONTACT WITH 
Yale is through the national media, the uni-
versity must seem to be constantly locking 
horns with one opponent or another in an 
effort to defend a fundamental principle. Tra-
ditionally, Yale's adversaries in these epic bat-
tles have had all the human faces. Three 
years ago it was Texas 
gazillionaire Lee Bass, 
Then it was the cud-
chewing union members. 
More recently it's been 
gay activist and playwright 
Larry Kramer, followed 
immediately by a group of 
Orthodox Jews. 

Those of us who are at ground 
zero know that life at Yale is relatively prosa-
ic and unheroic. Denizens of Yale, no matter 
how much the admissions office chirps about a 
community of scholars—do not spend every 
waking moment pondering the future of west-
ern civilization, the exploitation of the working 
class, the validity of queer theory, and the 
moral poverty of the dorms. However, those 
who do feel strongly about any of these issues 
spend their time within the institution lobby-
ing for small changes that will make life at Yale 
more accommodating to their needs and 
wants. 

The Slifka Center, Yale's relationship to 
New Haven, the REFLAGS committee, and 
directed studies have all become things Yale 
can brag about. What were once gaping weak-
nesses in the university (religious intolerance, 
poor town-gown relations, a lack of gay 
studies) have been filled by a series of smaller mea-
sures that most agree are steps in the right 
direction. 

The national media is much less likely to 
pay attention to these because small, local 
actions are sure to draw a yawn in a USA Today 
editorial meeting. But when a controversy does 
manage to cause a ripple of interest in the 
national media, Yale gets caught up in a tsu-
nami because its spokespeople are quick to cast 
what could be a minor problem into a do-or-
die fight for its very foundational principles.  Office of Public Affairs spin-master Thomas 
Conroy said on the media portrayals of Yale in 
connection to the Orthodox Jews issue, "I 
don't think a story like that is negative as long 
as Yale is seen standing up for its principles."  & immovable as it wishes its gothic build-
ings were, the Yale administration 
has positioned itself in these 
brouhahas so that any com-
promise is tantamount to 
toppling the institution. 
However, this brink-
manship has, for the 
most part, been unnec-
essary. When faced 
with individual con-
cerns such as the 
complaint of the five 
students who are Orthodox Jews, 
Yale responds by appealing to the absolute 
values embedded in the residential college sys-
tem. By publicly relying on a fundamental 
principle, they enlarge the debate so that it 
becomes larger than it ever had to be. The New 
York Times (which covers Yale almost as well as 
the Yale Daily News) would have hardly batted 
an eyelash at a story chronicling the negotiations 
over bathroom rules and visitation practices. 
Instead, the Yale Five complaints, which 
basically amounted to living conditions—a 
gripe virtually every Yale student shares—have 
turned into a debate about Church and State 
and the essence of modern religion. & a Yale 
student you have to wonder, "Don't these 
things happen at other schools?" They most 
likely do, but problems at other schools never 
seem to make it much further than the U-Wire. 
And, well, we wouldn't want to criticize, 
but Yale only seems to come out looking silly. 
The administration was all too willing to claim 
leadership in gay studies, but when their bet 
was called, they were forced to fold and reveal 
their lack of confidence in gay studies as a valid 
academic field. Their everyday actions, such as 
the Homebuyers Incentive Program and the 
Kosher Kitchen seem hollow when Yale's 
grander statements send the opposite message. 

-The Editors 


**Title: Running Late**
**Author: Dan KeUum**
**Page number(s): 5**

Running Late 
For most of us exercising is drudgery: slowly-
moving half-hours wedded to a machine that 
forces us to move our legs up and down or long 
minutes spent under a bench press trying to 
expand the muscles above our ribs. To combat 
our boredom, fitness fads will continue to come 
and go. There isn't just this year's clothes, there's 
this year's way of getting into them. Thus 
jazzercise emerged, then Buns of Steel, and now 
two Silliman roommates have found a new way 
of avoiding workout doldrums: running in 
New Haven after-hours, long after the Yale 
Police advise staying indoors. 

They come out after midnight, sometimes 
after 1 a.m. Mila wears a pair of orange boxer 
shorts and an old T-shirt, Annie appears in a 
more sophisticated running outfit, her high 
school gym shorts. They look like normal stu-
dents on their way to burning a couple of calo-
ries, but they're not heading to the weight 
room. Tonight's route takes them around the 
periphery of campus, down Chapel Street, huff-
ing and maybe wheezing since they also smoke. 
They invoke an image of weirdness like hybrid 
tomatoes in a transportable garden. 

Running so late is ideal, they say, because 
the weather is perfect and there are fewer people 
on the street. They aren't embarrassed to be seen 
running but are attracted by the desolation that 
fills the streets at night. According to Annie, "I 
see my workouts as romantic in the original 
sense of the word—when I'm running I enter 
into my own zone." For Mila a sense of privacy 
is important as well. "It's just a rest from people. 
College is exasperatingly full of people. But 
most people study at night." The recovery of 
primordial loneliness is just one of the advan-
tages of their unique workout routine. More 
likely they cannot get up in the morning and 
run at night because that's when they're awake. 

In talking to these girls something else 
emerges about their workouts—a sense of 
bemusement with their own oddity. It seems as 
if they're not so much generally in awe of night 
as they are in piquing interest, in creating a cult 
of themselves. As they're running down Crown 
Street when the rest of the world is considering 
sleep, rather than pass them by, they seem to 
OCTOBER 17, 1997 
want us to stop and think, "What are those girls 
up to?" 

Despite their façade of ambivalence, one 
continues to wonder if these women ever feel 
genuinely scared, especially when one considers 
that Mila or Annie often runs alone. According 
to Annie, "Never—I took model mugging 
classes in high school. I know how to defend 
myself." Mila, though, has occasional moments 
of fear. "When I get too far away from campus I 
start to feel uncomfortable. Like sometimes I've 
been alone and cut through the Green to get 
home faster—that made me feel a bit queasy." 
But has she ever met anyone threatening? "No, 
when people have stopped us, it's been because 
they thought we were crazy, not because they 
wanted to hurt us. Like this one time this guy I 
know asked me what I was doing, and I said 
working out, and he said, 'Are you crazy? Do 
you want to get yourself killed?' But I just 
laughed about that." Annie remembers being 
stopped by a man on a bike on Dwight Street as 
she was running towards Whalley. "I don't want 
to be rude," he said, "but this is kind of a dan-
gerous neighborhood." "Thanks," Annie 
replied. "I think we're okay. He was sort of 
weird." Jogging under the street lamps, they 
slyly mock their spectators; all the rest of us hur-
rying home on such dark, unquiet streets. 


**Title: Donut Abundance**
**Author: jesse Dilicn**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Donut Abundance 
My suspicions were true. "Old people like 
the French Crullers best," said Leah Beabout, 
recent emigre to New Haven and current 
employee at the Park Street Dunkin' Donuts. It 
seems so obvious: their wonderful blend of air 
and dough, emptiness and substantial weight 
correspond well to the elderly's fragile, yet hefty 
condition. 

Leah freely gave out this information as 
though it were a donut handed out free of 
charge. Indeed, Dunkin' Donuts offered just 
such a promotional give-away a few short weeks 
ago in honor of Fred the Baker, the company's 
retiring ad-man, famous for his catchphrase, 
"Time to make the donuts." However, if I had 
come in earlier dressed not in my Levi's and 
green Gap plaid, but in blue seersuckers and a 
red polo, Leah would perhaps have refrained 
from so readily exposing this Dunkin' Donuts 
lemon-jelly-like inner secret. On that "hellish, 
long-ass shift" when Leah and her co-worker 
Eva handed out one free donut after another, 
she soon realized that some customers were 
returning, dressed anew in hopes of attaining a 
prized second free donut. 

To what extremes will New Havenites go 
for donuts? Did these conniving, unlawful citi-
zens not realize they easily could have fulfilled 
their gluttonous wishes by other, simpler 
means? Had these dastardly deceivers carefully 
executed their plan, they could have come 
home with not one but eight free donuts, with-
out a trip to the changing room. Ah, the poor 
fools, ignorant of New Haven's Dunkin' 
Donuts abundance. 

The relatively young students of the Yale 
School of Drama, like the geriatric, often enjoy 
the French Crullers found at the Park Street 
Dunkin' Donuts. As Leah explains, they enjoy 
French Crullers not for their potential medici-
nal qualities, but simply because they come 
from France (home to Racine and sometimes 
Beckett). Luckily for these students, 
the new Dunkin' Donuts 
sits directly behind their 
York Street theatre 
space. It's likely that 
these drama students 
may never have had the 
opportunity to taste a 
French Cruller, seeing 
that before the new fran-
chise's opening in Septem-
ber, only seven other 
Dunkin' Donuts existed in 
the Yale area: one behind 
Timothy Dwight College 
on Whitney; one 
on Church Street across from 
the Chapel Square Mall; one 
near the Medical 
5 

School Co-op on York Street; one on Chapel 
adjacent to New Haven Book and Video; one on 
State Street; and finally, Union Station houses 
two—count 'em two—Dunkin' Donuts due to 
the overwhelming rush-hour demand for 
portable baked goods. One might rightfully 
ask, "How can these eight Dunkin' Donuts 
adequately serve Yale and the greater New 
Haven community?" (For now, let us ignore the 
additional 20 Dunkin' Donuts listed in the 
New Haven phone book.) In fact, this question 
must have entered the mind of one Mr. Vinny 
Gagliardi, owner and founder of the new Park 
Street shop. This capitalist savior stepped up to 
the plate at the hour of Yale's greatest need. 

Leah reports that the new shop's most intense 
hours of donut demand are early in the morn-
ing and from about 2 to 3 p.m. 

This leads me to wonder at precisely what 
time the severely intoxicated man and his equal-
ly drunk mother entered the store, ordered one 
Bow-tie, and then asked for whipped cream to 
be spread all over it. Leah did not speculate as to 
who these two inebriated saps might have been. 
I suspect the handiwork of two over-imagina-
tive drama students, out for a night on the 
town. I also wonder at what ungodly hour the 
stabbed-in-the-wrist-bleeding-all-over-the-
counter man barged in and took plenty of 
Dunkin' Donuts napkins to heal his wound. 
Unfortunately, this latter man chose to be 
knifed near the wrong Dunkin' Donuts, for had 
he been hankerin' for a Blueberry Crumb down 
on York Street, he would have been but a few 
feet from good medical attention. He must 
have been one of the same guys who returned 
for that extra free donut. 


**Title: Look! Movie Weird!**
**Author: jason D'Cruz**
**Page number(s): 6**

Look! Movie Weird! 
"What did you think of the last Hentai?" 
asks a voice from the corner of the room. Before 
anyone has a chance to answer this curious 
question, another query is made, "How about 
Ranma ½ Number 34?" Soon the 
room is awash in arcane references 
to Magic Knight Rayearth, Slay-
ers, and Ah! My Goddess. 

The group is 90 per-
cent male and rather 
enthused. I am trying 
my best to fit in. 

About 50 under-
grads and a 
smattering of 
6 
graduate students are gathered at the door to 
Silliflicks, a cozy theatre in the basement of Silli-
man. They are here for the bi-weekly screening 
of the Yale Anime Film Society. The previous 
group still hasn't left the theatre, and insists 
upon seeing the end of their film right up to the 
last few credits. Despite their growing restless-
ness, the anime vanguard is not an aggressive 
bunch, and they let the movie watchers have 
their way. 

One of the members notices that I'm a tad 
lost and flashes me a little grin. Hopeful, I try to 
strike up a conversation. Scrambling to find 
something to say, I mutter something innocu-
ous along the lines of, "Tonight's Japanimation 
looks pretty cool." He knows at once that I'm 
not among the initiated. Those who know call 
it anime and pronounce the word "anime." A 
genre of Japanese animation, anime plot lines 
encompass everything from innocent kid's sto-
ries akin to the Care Bears, to more adult sce-
narios more along the lines of Debbie Does Dallas. As the members of the society will have you 
know, much of this stuff isn't for kids. 

As the theater opens, the bleary-eyed movie-
goers slowly diffuse out of the room. Since there 
are far fewer chairs than people, the anime 
watchers jostle to get prime seats. There seems to 
be a definite hierarchy, with the anime intelli-
gentsia sitting in the chairs up at the front. I sit 
cross-legged on the cold floor hunched up 
against the wall. Near the front of the room, but 
far off to the side, I have a very oblique view of 
the screen and have to strain my neck to see the 
subtitles. One of the Anime Society leaders 
stands up to introduce the video we are about to 
watch, The Vision of Escaflowne. He mentions 
the "superb quality of animation" and the "cool 
storyline." He also tells us that tonight we have 
the rare treat of viewing six consecutive episodes. 
I resent my position on the floor even more. 

The first episode opens with achingly sappy 
theme music and a number of still shots 
of an attractive girl with long 
brown hair and doe-like 
eyes. The girl 
sings something 
in Japanese and 
the subtitles for 
the lyrics come up as 
"Go for love, go for love!" 
The audience is transfixed. 
What follows is a bit of a 
muddle involving 
other things, a Japanese public school, a magical 
pendant, a high school track meet, a crush on 
an older man, an alternate reality, a lecherous 
brown monster, a handsome blond prince, a 
playfully sexy cat-girl, and lots of big robots. 

In subsequent videos I make a concerted 
effort to follow the plot line. In Slayers I witness 
the awe-inspiring magic of a new heroine, Lina 
Inverse. At the beginning of the episode, this 
luscious freedom fighter proclaims, "Anyone 
who's jealous of my power and my beauty won't 
get away!" Chastened, her enemy replies, "You 
got balls, kid, of course, being a girl, you have no 
balls!" The room erupts in hoots of laughter. 
Unsure of how to react, I smile sheepishly and 
scratch my goatee. When Lina's blond heart-
throb, Gourry, decides to flee the evil dragon, 
brave Lina cuts him down to size with her 
acidic wit, "BAD! Gourry, mummy men aren't 
my type." I turn to the person sitting beside me, 
and ask why the heroine is called Lina Inverse. 
He gives me a puzzled look, as if I just asked 
"Why do people breathe?" or "Why do you 
watch anime?" Obviously, I'm missing some-
thing here. 

After three videos, I am a little dizzy and 
can no longer feel my legs. I decide to sneak out 
the back door and get some fresh air in the Silli-
man courtyard. I think to myself, "Not safe! 
Must flee." I know how Lina would react to my 
cowardice. She would toss back her hair seduc-
tively, square her shoulders, look me in the eye, 
and proclaim, "Mummy men aren't my type!" 


**Title: From Dust to Dust**
**Author:  [Author Name Missing]**

From Dust to Dust 
The Sterling Memorial Library stacks: no 
other Yale building inspires such dread, such 
intrigue and such romance among students. 
Privacy is easier to find than that elusive history 
or psychology tome. Despite the recent library 
renovations which have left the stacks in 
even greater disarray, the shelves still 
hold some surprises. A look at one 
shelf reveals a set of Shakespeare, 
printed in London in 1757. (George 
Washington was fighting for the 
British, and Connecticut Hall had 
just been built.) On another shelf, 
14 volumes of Chaucer printed in 
Edinburgh in 1782 (each small 
enough to fit in a pocket). The 
sleepy security guards at the main 
desk would never notice. A fan



**Title: The Sterling Memorial Library Renovation**
**Author: Simon Rodberg**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ofRoman politics? Elihu Yale's father might have 
read this edition ofTacirus printed in 1622. But 
now the book's cover and spin~ are detached 
from its body, and little chips of the Imperium's 
history fall off with each turn of the page. 

The SML renovation is meant to create a 
suitable modern home for Sterling's holdings, 
but the rebuilding process now stands in viola-
tion of Hippocrates's famous dictum: "First, do 
no harm." 

The treasures of SML sit unnoticed in cor-
ner alcoves and temporary carts, carelessly 
stacked and exposed to the choking grit of the 
long, slow installation of new wiring, elevators, 
and ventilation systems. Up on floor 4M, the 
books on the shelves are in disarray, tossed in at 
odd angles like pieces of an unsolved jigsaw 
puzzle. A thick volume rests uneasily between 
two larger texts, unprotected by a cover, with-
out title page or call number. No scholar could 
ever find this book-a shame because in it are 
three years worth of newspaper clippings from 
the Civil War. Not reprints, not copies, but 
actual newspaper columns reporting the deci-
sive Northern victories ("the following account 
of the battle of Gettysburg on Wed. last ... "), 
cheering Sherman's march through Georgia, 
and scrutinizing Lincoln's peace negotiations. 

In Beinecke, these relics would be in an air-
tight glass cube, protected &om theft and the 
dements by futuristic alarm systems and translu-
cent marble slabs. Here in the hean of SML, 
however, newspapers from the Civil War are at 
the mercy of the dust, the water, and the kind-
ness of whoever happens to stumble upon them. 

So, as you turn the pages, be careful not to pull 
too roughly because the wrinkled 18-inch-page 
might come loose. Remember, while you run 
your fingers over the newsprint to feel the tex-
ture, that you are depositing oil and sweat on the 
kind of primary source that historians pore over. 
While putting the volume back, be gentle-the 
book is already in two pieces. Among the hack-
saws, blowrorches, and hammers, this little bit of 
history never really had a chance. 
· 
-Simon Rodberg


**Title: Working Sucks**
**Author: Andrew Young**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

The Yale Midterm god is not a happy god. 
lt is not a forgiving god. It is not a kind god. It 
is a relentless, jealous, angry god. It requires 
appeasement. 

Week after week and year after year, like 
humble supplicants, we offer up rituals to 
OcroBER 17, 1997 
Midterm god and her friends Finals god and 
Homework god. We present to them long 
hours of study without sleep, daily meccas to 
class, and the memorization of important reli-
gious texts on math and history. On important 
holidays, we endure all-nighters, hoping that 
our misery will inspire a spark of pity in the 
gods who. will grant us a prosperous career, a 
white picket fence, a beautiful spouse, and Ulti-
mate Happiness. 

Th.is is utterly ridiculous. Let's all quit 
school, burn our books, and live happy and 
productive lives without the crutch of higher 
education. Working sucks. 

So says Tun, a Harvard dropout who works 
five hours a week as a computer programmer. 
Five hours. Tun languidly passes his days on his 
coUective farm, reading, playing the flute, vol-
unteering, and writing. Armed with a pen name 
of no less than "Tun Righteous," he is the 
author of a bright-yellow pamphlet titled W&rk-
ing Sucks, which presents some pretty heavy-
duty thinking in plain English on Tun's way of 
life as an alternative to the normal grind. This 
year the pamphlet made its way to Yale via 
Tim's friend Lydia Stein (DC '01) and into my 
hands a couple of weeks ago. My midterm-
soaked brain, beaten down by hours of study-
ing, drank it all in. 

The pamphlet starts with the idea that 
work stunts a fulfilling life: "Work takes time 
from other, better things like being with our 
families and friends, travding, making love, 
drinking beer, painting, writing, reading, play-
ing music, cooking, eating good food, etc. 
These are things that make life rich and interest-
ing. Work makes life boring, short, and gray." 

Then Tun gives us a way out of the "work 
and consume trap" by outlining a strategy for 
working less. "The trick is learning how to 
work less by learning how to spend less." 

According to Tun, spending less involves 
pinching pennies, living communally, and quit-
ting school. 

Okay. Maybe this is going a bit far. But, 
going back to the first part, I mean, working 
really does suck. And no one knows this better 
than the stressed-out Yalie. 

In fact, Tun had us in mind when he put 
together his pamphlet. After I tracked him 
down, he told me, "The middle class propa-
gates itself by insisting that you always. defer 
happiness by going to school, then coUege, then 
climbing the career ladder. It puts up the illu-
sion that if you stop rurining, something bad 
will happen. It took me all the way to graduate 
school to realize that I could stop running and 
disaster wouldn't befall me." Tun advises us to 
take some time off from school and examine 
whether or not we really want to be here. 

Lydia, the student who gave me the pam-
phlet in the first place, says, "I think W&rking 
Suckstdls us to have a lot of fun, not to put our-
selves in the track of work and consume, work 
and spend. It encourages us to be critical of the 
institutions around us. I think we should really 
seriously consider this way of living, not just 
philosophically ponder it." 

Perhaps you're tempted to laugh. Myself, I 
can only think about Tun who is probably 
hanging out on his farm and wondering what 
he's going to do with all that beautiful free time. 
-A.ndmv Youn


**Title: I'll Be Watching You**
**Author: Monica Kim**

You leave your parents when you come to 
Yale, only to find another set of people keep-
ing tabs on your life. Your seminar professors 
take attendance. Your section leaded monitor 
participation. The bursar's office counts every 
dollar you owe. Even your peers keep an eye 
on you. 

But once you graduate, you're free, right? 
Wrong. Mother Yale is keeping a close eye on 
7 


you, even after you think that you've escaped 
her omniscient gaze. High in the tower of the 
Yale bureaucracy:sits an office that you proba-
bly never knew existed. But they certainly 
know that you exist. This is the Development 
Office of Yale Alumni Affairs. And they make 
sure that they know as much as possible about 
your affairs. 

The office hires undergraduates to devote 
themselves entirely to the job of following 
your career. Roger Labady OE '01) and Nadira 
Stewart (CC '99) are two of eight undergradu-
ates who stalk you through the pages of vari-
ous high-profile publications. Armed with 
highlighters, they read entire magazines, high-
lighting every single name they come across. 

"There's a cubby area filled with maga-
zines," Nadira explains. "We just go and pick a 
magazine, read it, and highlight names as we 
read." The stack of previously read magazines 
·contains copies of Forbes, Fortune, Crain's, Wall 
Street fourna4 and The New ·lOrk Times all 
bearing bright yellow streaks. 

After highlighting, they enter the names 
into a computer datab~ of Yale alumni. If 
there is a match, the undergraduates enter a 
summary of the article featuring the alum. 
Then, they photocopy the article 
and tuck it away in a 
file folder labeled with 
the alum's name. 

These innocent spies 
even have a title within 
the world of the Develop-
ment Office: scanners. The 
undergraduate scanners are a 
small part of an entire sub-
culture devoted to faithfully 
following your post-collegiate 
life. There's a reason Nadira and 
Roger only read through busi-
ness-specific publications. They 
only scan for the ones who strike 
it rich. 

The Development Office is 
actually not an obscure, obsessive 
fan club of Yale graduates-it is a cottage 
fundraising industry. The office has made 
procuring money from Yale graduates a fine 
art which makes the Development Office a 
favorite of Mother Yale. The university has 
given the office three Boors in One Century 
Tower, a huge building complete with marble 
Boors, plush chairs, and revolving doors. And 
the 
luxurious, 
wood-paneled 
elevators 
announce floor numbers in a voice distinctly 
similar to the infamous voice-mail lady. 

Directly across the street from the Devel-
opment Office is the abandoned child of Yale's 
financial administration: the financial aid 
office. A nondescript building which makes do 
with makeshift computer-printed signs which 
read "Undergraduate Financial Services- 2nd 
floor," this particular office is clearly a victim 
of neglect. 

But back across the street, Yale graduates 
are received with open arms. "We even meet 
the alums in person," says Vilandria Turner, 
the manager of research. '1\nd we have exten-
sive background informacion, which the scan-
ners provide, on each alum's interests." 

So, ifYale is a home away from home, can 
we ever leave? Turner laughs good-humoredly. 
"Nope! We hold 60th year reunions!" 
- Monica Kim


**Title: Triumph of Translation**
**Author: Dustin Brown**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

. On the third Boor of the University The-
ater, a wire-mesh barrier sections off a dimly-
lit corner of the Yale School of Drama library, 
protecting the 70-year legacy of the 
YSD alumni. For some, 
these 
"cages" are little more than a dun-
geon of forgotten theses, the final 
resting place for material that 
once held the spotlight on the 
stage two flights below. But for 
James Magruder (MA '84, 
MFA '88), a visiting lecturer 
whose own doctoral thesis 
entered the cages in 1992, 
these volumes represent the 
theatrical hits of the future. 

Magruder's contribu-
tion to the dramatic legacy 
is his English translation 
of Pierre de Marivaux's 
obscure 18th-century French 
comedy La Triomphe de /'Amour. His script 
made its public debut with a 1993 production 
at Center Stage Baltimore. But after the cur-
tain fell on closing night, The Triumph of Love 
wasn't quite ready to return to its dusty shelf 
in the drama cages. Instead, it prepared for yet 
another translation-this time into another 
genre. Magruder will unveil this final incarna-
tion on October 23rd, when Triumph of Lo~ 
opens as a musical at the Royale Theater in 
New York City. 

Magruder dubs his path to Broadway "a 
jaw-droppingly freakish stroke-of-fortune." 
He adds, "For my collaborators, it is the ideal-
ization of a dream. As somebodJ who wishes 
he were writing more fiction, this is like a 
freak accident-an extraordinary freak acci-
dent." 

Magruder says, "Triumph of Love the 
musical marries theater, French literature, and 
musical theater-kind of a weird culmination 
of my prevailing interests." 

This Yale-bred marriage had a bittersweet 
homecoming last winter during the produc-
tion's engagement at the Yale Rep where it was 
greeted by a mediocre reception. "The Yale 
Rep had not done a new musical in 22 years, 
and I don't think they were ready," he says. 

The Broadway audiences, on the other 
hand, have been far more receptive, lapping 
up the preview performances of the reinvent-
ed Triumph, extensively rewritten and recast 
since its New Haven engagement. With each 
successive draft, 25 in all, Magruder finds 
himself relying less on the literal Marivaux 
and more on the author's style. "My guiding 
principle was that if I'm entertaining myself, I 
might be able to entertain others," he says. "I 
wasn't going to create a translation that 
couldn't have been on the stage." With the 
imminent Broadway opening and prospects 
of a national rour with a London company, 
Magruder can expect a healthy stage life 
before his creation at last returns, albeit trans-
formed, to its original home in the drama 
cages. 
-Dustin Brown


**Title: The Choice is Yours**
**Author: Jouphine Coakley**
**Page number(s): 9**

Lucas Campos (PC '99) is Chicano. 
Yet, the reason he identifies himself as Chi-
cano might be difficult for some to grasp. 
While Lucas's father is from Mexico, his 
mother is mainly of English and French 
descent. Standing six-feet tall with blue 
eyes and light brown hair, Lucas certainly 
does not stand out as a member of any par-
ticular ethnic group. His parents divorced 
in his infancy and he was raised by his 
mother with almost no contact with his 
father in a household which did not 
emphasize his Mexican heritage. "I only 
really started thinking about being Chi-
cano when I was around 16 or so. My mom 
definitely encouraged me to examine my 
identity more." 

Since coming to Yale, Lucas's connec-
tion to the Chicano community has grown 
stronger. He is a member of Yale's Profes-
sional Society of Latinos, and has partici-
pated in both P.R.O.P. and Science, Tech-
nology, and Research Scholars, a Yale pro-
gram that helps minority students find 
positions in research labs. "Shannon Sali-
nas [the former dean and director of the 
Chicano Cultural Center] was my mentor 
here when it came to learning about Latino 
programs," Lucas says. "Through organiza-
tions and experiences I've had over the past 
few years, I know many more Chicanos 
and a lot more about my own culture than 
I've ever had the chance to in the past." 

Indeed, Lucas's Chicano identity, coupled 
with his academic excellence and love of 
chemistry, was instrumental in winning a 
two-year 
$10,000 
grant 
from 
Yale's 
Boucher Fellowship, a program designed to 
encourage minority students in graduate 
studies. 

Lucas takes exception with those who 
would question his Chicano identity, no 
matter how latent. "My father was from 
Mexico," he says, "and that makes me just 
as Chicano as anyone else." 

Dean Richard Chavolla, director of 
Yale's Chicano and Native American Cul-
tural Center, emphasizes that at Yale eth-
nicity comes down to more than just skin 
color. "It's basically a process of self-identi-
fication," he says. "If one chooses to identi-
fy as Chicano, then we don't question 
whether they are or not." 

Much like Dean Chavolla, Dean Kim-
berly Goff-Crews, director of the Boucher 
Fellowship and the Afro-American Cultural 
Center, makes it clear that students at Yale 
must define their own ethnic identity. 
"There can be no litmus test for race," she 
explains. "It is only the individual himself 
that can decide what his own identity is." 

When deciding who is eligible for programs 
for minority students, the same rule applies. 
"If a fellow identifies as Chicano, or any 
other ethnicity, his identity is valid and will 
inform him as a scholar as well as diversify 
the field of study he enters." As Lucas puts 
it, "I may not have grown up eating Mexi-
can cooking every night or speaking Span-
ish, but I'm learning more about what it 
means to be Chicano every day." 
-]ouphine Coakky

Exceptional 
Dresses 
for 
Graduation 
Formals 
Recitals 
Performance 
Dinner, Dance, 
Parties ... 
Seychelles 
1020 Chapel Street 
New Haven 
498-2626 
OPEN EVERY DAYl 

Formerly Chartie B's 
Fine Steak and Seafood 
1157 Chapel St. 
778-7689 

Advertise in 
The New Journal. 
There's no better way to reach 
the entire Yale community: 
undergraduates, graduate 
students, faculty, and staff. 
Call Justin Sacks at (203) 432-
. 1957 for more information. 



**Title: IO**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
IO 
• new haven • 387 
clatreti 
tf#.:7 (£? ~ 
A Gourmet Vegetarian Restaurant Since 1975 
Breakfast 8am-l lam 
Lunch and Dinner llam-lOpm 
Kosher Certified 
1000 Chapel Street 
New Haven, CT 06510 
Restaurant 562-3888 
Catering 


**Title: Night Vision**
**Author: Lila Subramanian**
**Page number(s): 11**

OCTOBER I?, I997 
ll



**Page number(s): 12**

12 
Nightfall transforms our surroundings. The 
naruraJ darkness of the night and the isolated 
man-made lights that punctuate: this darkness 
suggest uneasiness, adventure, mystery and soli-
tude. I walk through urban and suburban spaces 
searching for evidences of life. The spaces I pho-
tograph are used spaces-backyards, construc-
tion sites, driveways-inhabited during the day-
time: and abandoned for the night. These pho-
rographs are about the discovery of the presence 
of other people through an exploration of space. 
Inanimate objects stand in for the absent human 
figures. What remains in the: landscape after 
nightfall is a haunting residue of human spirit, 
left behind as a testament to our fundamental 
loneJjness. 
Lila Subramanian is a smior in TrumbulL Co/kg~. 
THE NEw JouRNAl 



**Title: Serving Up Misinformation**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
With neither telephone numbers nor street addresses, the food vendors 
near the Medical School try to sort out the city's plans for their future. 

BETWEEN II A.M. AND 3 P.M. EACH WEEKDAY, THE CORNER OF 
York and Cedar streets near the Sterling Hall of Medicine 
becomes a movable feast. Dozens of vendors' pushcarts line 
the circular sidewalk, and the surrounding air hangs heavy, 
laden with the heat misting off cooking grills and the sick-sweet scent 
of frying oils and simmering noodles. Festooned with garishly-colored 
umbrellas, the pushcarts are chrome-and-Formica affairs, occasionally 
belching up gusts of steam. Customers come &om all directions on this 
mid-autumn a&ernoon, many &om Yale-New Haven Hospital, just 
across York; they wear white coats and laminated ID tags. Those in 
white are less likely than other customers to sit down with their Styro-
foam boxes of pad thai or General Tso at a picnic table on the stone-
tiled courtyard. They hurry back across the street, leaving the vendors 
an extra moment to take a breather as the a&ernoon's shadows lengthen. 


The vendors lean against their Chevy Blazers and Toyota pickups, 
parked nearby; in about an hour they will load the cars with coolers 
filled with unsold soda and food, hitch up their pushcarts, and head 
home. For now, they steal a smoke and chat with neighboring sellers. 
Baseball comes up a lot-vendor Lam Nguyen, who goes by "Phil," 
is rarely seen without his Red Sox cap. The weather. Local politics. I ask 
them about the bill currendy under the Board of Aldermen's considera-
tion that would place stricter limitations on outdoor vending in New 
Haven. "The question is why. We need an answer," Phil says between 
pulls on a Marlboro Red, his eyes focused over my shoulder as he 
watches for approaching customers. "There's a lot of rumors going on 
in the city that there is some proposal. If that rule is put into effect, 
there will be no vendors. We heard about a rule that will make us go 
200 feet away &om any public building. We heard there might be an 
English test to get a permit." Phil gestures vaguely at a nearby vendor; 
when I approached her earlier with a few questions, she silendy 
demurred with a confused smile. Her English appeared limited to "Can 
I help you?" 


"I don't know why they're doing it," Phil goes on. "Talk to that hot 
dog guy. He knows." But I've already chatted with the hot dog guy, 
Kevin Murphy, of Jack's World Famous Hot Dogs. "I hear they're try-
ing to shut us down," Kevin told me. "But people got a right to eat 
where they want to eat." He was explaining to me how his grill worked 
when he wandered off, mid-sentence, in search of an extra gas tank. 
Left alone, I went to talk to Shou Bim Chen at Liu's Lunch. "Now we 
might have to find new jobs," he said. "It's the city of New Haven 
doing it, but Yale doesn't want us around. We get too much business." 
Indeed, the only food-service competitor in the immediate area is the 
Yale-New Haven Hospital cafeteria. Chen then pointed me toW3..\"d 
Phil. "Oh, you already talked to the hot dog guy," Phil says, "Yale is 
behind it. I don't know why. We still haven't heard what is going to hap-
pen. We might have to leave. We find out October l, when we have to 
get new permits." Phil is friendly and talkative, but seemingly against 
his better judgment; he is standing up straight now, and shifting his 
weight back and forth between his feet. He points toward the 
Mamoun's cart and tells me, "The Greek guy knows. Ask him." 


Ask Joelle Rhodes, legislative liaison for the Office of the Mayor, 
about the vendors' assorted concerns, and her smooth phone voice 
reach~ a slighdy higher pitch. "There has been a campaign of misinfor-
mation to incite people on this issue. This always happens when we are 
trying to negotiate new legislation," she says. The official language of 
the proposed ordinance claims only to regulate the location and opera-
tion of vending stations and establish tighter procedures for the suspen-
sion or revocation of licenses. Rhodes dismisses nearly every vendor's 
qualm I bring up. "We're not trying to attack the vendors or get rid of 
all vending in New Haven. We just want them to be consistent with 
stated distances from schools and churches," Rhodes says. No, the 200-
feet limit probably won't be passed. No, there was never any plan to 
administer an En~ish competency exam. No, Yale is not working with 
the mayor's office on the proposal. As for October 1, the date that so 
many of the vendors at York and Cedar seemed to regard as a D-day of 
sorts, Rhodes explains, "Well, permits are renewed October 1. I guess 
the vendors expected the ordinance to be passed and enforced by then." 


It's just one piece of misinformation wafting in the smoking air 
between the vendors, but in its own way, it makes sense. If Kevin Mur-
phy or Shou Bim Chen are under the impression that the Mayor's 
office, the police, or Yale intends to shut down their operations, and 
they had to wager a guess, a logical time for the crackdown to occur 
would be the day their licenses expire. I recall what Phil said when I 
asked how he heard about the proposal-"Everybody talks. People 
around here talk about it" -and realize that the 20-odd vendors work-
ing at York and Cedar are engaged in an ongoing game of Telephone. 
The mayor's office has contact with lawyers hired on retainer by the 
owners of Jack's Hot Dogs and Brittany's Lunch. Those lawyers talk to 
the owners, who then talk to their workers. Those workers then talk to 
the self-employed vendors. Faets shift and warp. They are even, per-
haps, lost in translation-first languages among the vendors include 
Greek, Thai, Vietnamese, and Hindi. 


"I can't sit here and counsel the vendors 24 hours a day," Rhodes 
says. "I know there's a lot of misinformation going around, but all I can 
say is, the proposal is a working document. What was proposed is not 
the end-all, be-ali." Rhodes points out that under current guidelines, 
the city can be held liable for any accidents that befall a street vendor or 
for any problems they cause, such as obstruction of pedestrian traffic. 
But she stresses that much of her office's interest in presenting the pro-
posal is due to the fact that the vendor ordinance has not been over-
hauled since 1928. 


"And ignored since then," John Williams rebuts when I talk to him 
later that day. A lawyer representing several vendors, Williams likens 
the efforts to revise the vending ordinance to overhauling a decree 
against, say, jaywalking. "Who card" he keeps repeating. "But they're 
doing more than just revising. They want to make it impossible for 
vendors to vend." Williams points out that under the proposed ordi-
nance, licenses would be non-transferable; instead of just a single estab-
lishment, each and every worker would need a permit. "It amounts to 
harassment, and these issues come up due to intermittent spasms of 
yuppiefication," he says. "The mayor's office wants to turn New Haven 
into Disneyland or Greenwich, if there's a difference." While Williams 
confirms that calk of an English test for vendors was never anything 
more than idle rumor, he says, "It speaks to the attitude the vendors 
perceive, that the city is looking down its nose at them." 


By the time I have my conversation with Williams, October 1 has 
come and gone, and I head back down to York and Cedar. Phil sees me 
coming and taps a co-worker on the shoulder; they watch me walking 
toward them, wearing hesitant smiles. "They extended our licenses 
until January, so we'll know by then," Phil tells me before I have a 
chance to ask him anything. He says the Board of Aldermen will vote 
on the resolution in November. We chat for a bit, but I'm stuttering, 
fogged over with distraction. Neither Joelle Rhodes nor John Wtlliams 
mentioned a November vote to me; both called the ordinance's 
timetable "indefinite." I suddenly realize the latest factual casualty of 
the vendors' gossip machine: aldermanic elections are in November, so, 
via the grapevine, voting for aldermen mutates into, as it were, alder-
men voting. "So we don't have to worry about anything until next 
year," Phil concludes. 


The next morning, I ask Maureen Butler, New Haven licensing 
officer, about the three-month extensions granted on the food vendors' 
permits. "Well, that was true for a couple of days," she says, "but now 
the mayor's office has decided that the vendors have to renew their per-
mits. The licenses are good until March. They're working on the laws, 
you see." I mention that I spoke with some vendors just yesterday, and 
no one told me that they needed to renew their permits. "They'll find 
out within the next week, probably," Butler replies. I ask her how. 
"Well, they'll find out through word of mouth," she .says. "We don't 
have their phone numbers, so there's really no other way." I glance at 
my clock. It's 10:30 a.m. The pushcans rolling into York '\;Od Cedar 
just about now might as well be the wheels of the rumor mill, clicking 
intogear. 

18) 
]mica Winter is a junior in Saybrook Colkge. 



**Title: The Lives Behind Welfare Reform**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It's th~ first of th~ month. Your last nam~ starts with B, so your we/fore 
, ch~ck is d~ to arriv~. Is it in th~ mailbox? 

If 
your~ not worrying about this, so~IJne a let worse off than you cer-
tainly is. 

I
T'S ALL ABOUT MONEY. IT's HARD PAYING TAXES AND HARD TO CON-
vince the taxpayers that the government is spending taxes on the 
right things or the right people. But it's never been easy being 
poor, making decisions based on your next meal. And it's even 
harder if you're disabled, or if you have children, or if you've been 
addicted, or incarcerated, or abused. We know vaguely that welfare is 
being cut, but who is being affected and how? 

'Every little bit helps' 
"When I first carne here to Columbus House, I wanted to get on 
my feet, get a job, but it just didn't work out that way. I don't know 
what I woulda done without this place," Wtlhamena tells me. 

Wtlhamena's face is wise; her hard eyes indicate she's a veteran of 
poverty. Through the years, she's been homeless, a single mother, and 
an inmate. Wtlhamena, 44, battles alcoholism and Post Traumatic 
Stress Disorder (PTSD), a minor mental illness which is caused by trau-
ma earlier in life. She sits across a table from me at the shelter, affixing 
safety pins to the metal backs of buttons. She earns $4 per thousand 
buttons, netting her $25 each week. The work may seem like exploita-
tion, but in her position Wllhamena is glad to be doing something pro-
ductive. She sighs as she attaches another pin, "Every little bit helps." 

The Columbus House dining room smells like cigarettes and cafe-
teria food. It's grungy and public, much like a church soup kitchen. 

Most of the homeless clients leave in the morning; the mentally dis-
abled who remain now stare at the television or talk to one another. 

"I've been through several treatment programs, I've recovered and 
relapsed. I've been on welfare. Past year I lived on the streets of New 
Haven." Each day she takes two buses from her apartment in Westville 
to Columbus House up in the Hill neighborhood. 

Mental illness often appears concurrently with long term addiction, 
and a life of poverty and addiction often creates mental disorders. 

According to the National Coalition for the Homeless, 20 to 25 per-
cent of the homeless have severe, persistent mental illness. 

PTSD makes Wtlhamena irritable, prone to depression, and moody. 
Combined with her alcoholism, she is barely employable and at times 
too volatile to statt a job. Three years ago, based on the condition of dual 
disability, Wllhamena would have easily been eligible to receive Social 
Security Insurance (SSI), commonly called "disability." Single individuals 
on SSI receive $548 per month. Since SSI reforms were passed, minor 
PTSD and alcoholism are not debilitating conditions which qualify for 
benefits. 

"Disability is being defined more narrowly by the stare," says 
Gretchen Mrozinski, entitlements coordinator ~t the Connecticut 
Mental Health Center. This reform leaves a large segment of the dis-
abled population with both little hope of a monthly check and poor job 
prospects. Those who petition for SSI face the ironic task of staying 
afloat with a few hundred dollars of standard benefits while trying to 
prove to the system that they cannot work. The process of proving a 
disability has always been long, but with more stringent rules the task is 
even more dillicult, requiring ten months or more of doctor's appoint-
ments, legal consultation, and paperwork. 


Without substantial monthly checks, Wtlhamena is pulling her life 
together only with the help of Columbus House case managers. Under


---

**Title: Seeking Shelter from the Cold**
**Author: Julia Rusinek**
**Page number(s): 17**

The clock is ticking. With autumn waning and winter 
imminent, the City of New Haven has only a few weeks left to 
live up to its promise of finding a replacement site for the 
Crown Street Overflow Shelter which provided 75 beds for · 
single homeless men. 

For years, the city leased a building on 353 Crown Street 
from November through March to serve as an overflow space 
for the Immanuel Baptist Shelter, which has consistently 
turned away homeless men during the winter months. This 
spring, the building on Crown Street was put up for sale by its 
owner who could no longer afford to lease it to the city for just 
a fraction of the year. The city declined offers to buy the build-
ing, and it was purchased by Yale to expand its art and archi-
tecmre space. Yale made the city aware of the purchase well 
before the deal was closed and the city in response made a 
promise to find a replacement for the Crown Street Shelter. 

The city, however, has not yet fulfilled that pledge. "We 
need closure this month," says Alma Ayala, the human 
resources administrator for New Haven. "We have two sites 
that look promising and we have the vendor who would oper-
ate the program. There is also a fallback that we're working on." 

But vague answers like this concern We The People, a· New 
Haven activist group made up of homeless and formerly 
homeless individuals. "They're wasting their time," says 
Andrew Levels, a representative of the group. He also com-
ments on the city's request late last summer for We The Peo-
ple's assistance in searching for a site. "We're not paid to look. 
It's the city's responsibility," Levels says. 

The request is perhaps indicative of the problematic task 
that Ayala and other city officials face. "It is difficult to lease 
because the sites we are considering are temporary," Ayala says. 

Dismayed by the city's lack of a solution, students in the 
Yale Hunger and Homelessness Action Project (YHHAP) 
mobilized student supporters and made the need for a shelter 
space an issue in the city. YHHAP members Deborah Dinner 
(CC '98), Nicky Tuchinda (MC '99), Rebecca Charnas (MC 
'98), and Karen McFadden (BR '98) sent a letter to Mayor 
John DeStefano in which they declared it "imperative that the 
city fulfill its responsibilities by acting immediately to ensure 
that a permanent overflow shelter is running by November 1." 

The letter was signed by city activist groups and local organi-
zations as well as businesses on Church and Chapel Streets and 
various student organizations. 

These organizations know that the city has already exhibit-
ed commitment to its homeless. The city's "no-freeze" policy 
states that once temperatures drop below freezing, shelters can-
not turn away homeless individuals. There is hope this season 
that the city will prove consistent in its commirmem. ~ut with 
an ever-increasing number of homeless men wandering the 
streets and only 113 shelter beds available, time is running out. 



**Title: Welfare's End**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Helen, with her son Kajuan, may rose her family's welfare benefits this month. 
who offered to take him in. "She's the only 
one who would have helped me," Ramon says 
of Ester. "I thank her everyday. 
'Gotta help yourself" 
David has lived without welfare at 
Immanuel Baptist Shelter on Grand Avenue 
for several months, floating from temp job to 
temp job. 
"If you need help, gotta help yourself. 
Ain't nobody gonna take care of me but me." 
David is black, tall, wears a pony tail and a 
graying goatee. He looks pretry together for a 
client at the shelter. 


A supervisor announces the 7 p.m. smoke 
break at the shelter; men roll from their cots, 
scrounging for cigarettes. Some of the clients 
are dean and well-shaven. Others stagger out 
smelling like garbage. "I'm just keeping it real 
with you- the system stinks," David fumes 
through his cigarette. But, he sees welfare cuts 
as inevitable, almost warranted. "People took 
advantage of the system and the system is just 
paying itself back." 


"I've been in and out of jail." He got out 
of prison last January and has been clean for a 
year and a half 
David is regaining his independence the 
hard way. Like most poor, unemployed indi-
viduals, he relies on temporary manual labor. 
He sleeps in the shelter, saves his wages in a 
bank account, and ofren eats at soup kitchens. 
Food stamps save him money, and although 
as a recent inmate he's eligible for GA, he has 
chosen not to use his months of eligibility 
OCTOBER 17, 1997 
while he has steady work. He knows that GA 
alone can't get someone off the streets. "Twen-
ty-five bucks a week, man? That's nothing." 


With 12 years experience as a trucker, 
David has a marketable skill, but he can't 
drive commercially until he works out a dis-
pute with the state over his license. He's con-
tent to slowly regain his independence with 
whatever work he can find. "I work my ass off 
for five bucks an hour," he says. 


He looks around the shelter in disgust. It's 
a filthy place, a ragtag boot camp of destitu-
tion and boredom. "I'm working, hoping to 
get myself up outta here," he tells me. "Wel-
fare was designed to help you get a job. We 
got people who wanna work, though there are 
many who would fuck the system at any 
chance they get. But there are negative and 
positive views. A lot of families gonna get hit, 
a Iotta people gonna need a Iotta help." 


'I'm gonna pray' 
Helen and her children could use some of 
that help. "They giving me 'til December. 
Then I gonna be off." If Helen cannot find a 
job or convince the state that she has looked 
for one, her family benefits, which she desper-
ately relies on, will be cut immediately. 


Helen's family lives in the second story of 
a shabby brown house in the Dixwell neigh-
borhood. After 50 years of white-Bight and 
povetty, this working-class street has aged, 
peeled, and overgrown into a quiet but poor 
srreet. Three-story houses with porches and 
terraces line the sidewalk. Most lawns are lit-
tered with trash. 


Inside, the house smells faintly of decayed 
wood. Kajuan (pronounced "Ka-won"), a 
chubby, wise-cracking eight-year-old, runs to 
meet me on the creaky steps. The living 
room, lined with a faded carpet, is tidy but 
the furniture is old. Helen lives here with her 
children, Kajuan and Malika, and Grafton, 
her 33-year-old brother who suffers from 
epilepsy and diabetes. 


Helen has received welfare since she was 
pregnant with Malika in 1982. Like over 80 
..Percent of the households receiving Tempo-
rary Family Assistance (TFA), there is no 
father in the house. At the time Malika was 
born, welfare for families was called Aid to 
Families with Dependent Children. With the 
federal changes in 1996, families now face a 
limit of 21 months on TFA. In order to be 
granted an extension after the limit, one must 
be employed or demonstrate an effort to find 
a job. Mothers must attend job search pro-
grams and keep a log of applications and 
interviews. Termination of benefits await fam-
ilies who do not follow the stringent job-
search regimen. The system requires single 
parents to simply find a job and to accept any 
position they land. "I have to do what I have 
ro do to make someone independent," a 
Department of Social Services (DSS) worker 
tells me. "If that's a minimum wage job at 
Burger King, well, it's better than nothing. 
And when they work they'll still receive bene-
fits." As an incentive to work, any income up 
to 125 percent of the poverty level can be 
earned without getting cut off ofTFA. 


With her poor education, spotty work 
history, and handwritten resume, it's likely 
that the only work Helen can get is a mini-
mum wage position. Unemployed, Helen is 
totally dependent on entitlements. DSS sends 
her $407 per month. She receives $180 in 
food stamps from the federal government. 
She's fortunate to receive substantial rental 
assistance because most poor families must 
wait years before receiving housing grants. 
But the approaching deadline threatens to put 
the family out on the street. 


Along with family photos and decorated 
magnets, two letters are attached to the refrig-
erator. One is a reprimand from Kajuan's 
principal, the other is a threatening note from 
DSS. 


At yesterday's meeting with her DSS case 
worker, she received the ultimatum she'd 
expected for months but not planned for: 
either demonstrate a commitment to finding 
a job or not receive an extension. 


"I knew about the limit, I just didn't 
expect it so soon. I know I'm gonna find 
something, and I'm gonna pray. I applied for 
the six-month extension, but they told me I 
had to find a job," Helen cries angrily. "I tried 
to find a job, it's not my fault if I can't get a 
job." She's not sure what she's done wrong. 


Approximately 2,000 families in Con-
necticut will reach their 21-month limit this 
month. DSS estimates that nearly 700 will 
have their benefits terminated. Food pantries 
which deliver groceries to families have 
already felt an increased need as women 
scramble to find jobs. 


Helen's job search has not gone well. "I 
worked temp at Pez candy for a whole month, 
but then they cut me off," she frowns. These 
days, she works for a cleaning company, 
though they only calJ sporadically. She's filled 
out countless applications; even fast food 
restaurants down the block have not calJed her. 


Helen lives day-to-day, but there's food 
around the house. While we're talking, 
Kajuan sneaks into the kitchen. We hear him 
pour a bowl of cereal. "!'low Kajuan, I told 
you not to fix no snacks before dinner time!" 
Helen shouts, shaking her head and rums to 
me. "And I know he won't finish his dinner." 


Helen's proud of her children. "You doin' 
hairsrylin', plumbin', and computers, right 
Malika?" She beams at her attractive daughter 
who attends a vocational high school. 


Malika is soft-spoken, but aware of the 
problems surrounding her. "The president 
should do something about it. There ain't 
enough jobs and it's just gonna get worse. I 
would try and be president, if I could, even 
though I'm a woman." Helen has a bank 
account for her daughter's future, but that 
money too will be spent if need be. 


Her brother, Grafton, is unemployed and 
cannot find work due to severe epilepsy. The 
fumily will depend on his disability checks if 
their benefits are terminated. But for now, I'm 
eating Kentucky Fried Chicken with Helen 
and her family. We're laughing, and the Jack-
son Five is blaring in the background. The 
happiness is eerie. I wonder where this family 
will go if their next check doesn't come. Ia)
Eli J(jntisch is a junior in Ezra Stills Colkgt. 
OCTOBER J7, 1997 


**Title: On the Cutting Edge**
**Author: Vanessa Agard-Jones and Lainie Rutkow**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
LET'S SAY YOU'RE PlANNING A NIGHT OUT ON THE TOWN, THE 
social event of the season, and you have nothing to wear. 
You don't have much time, so you head to Chapel Street, 
bypass the Gap and enter Ann Taylor, searching for 
something sexy yet sophisticated. Toting your new silk charmeuse 
blouse out of the store, you continue down Chapel. That's when it 
strikes you-the perfect complement to this evening's ensemble is just 
three doors away. It's something 
daring, spontaneous, eve'n 
sensual: a nipple piercing. 
Even if you don't opt for 
that item (perhaps out of 
concern for time, or more 
likely out of pure fright), it's 
impossible to miss The Edge 
Beauty and Tattoo Company's 
hulking, faux-Gothic storefront 
opposite the New Haven 
Green. 

The word "TATTOO" in 
neon lights casts a blue shadow 
on those who peer into the 
shop's tinted front windows. 
Passersby are arrested by The 
Edge's striking appearance and 
are drawn to press their noses to the glass. Employees and their 
friends loiter near the store's entrance, smoking cigarenes and eating 
food from nearby China King. They watch in amusement as the sign 
on the door deters potenrial customers. Ir reads: 
PLFASE: NO SMALL CHILDREN 
NO FOOD NO BEVERAGES 
NO ALCOHOL OR DRUGS 
NO ONE WILL BE TATTOOED UNLESS 18 YEARS OLD 

Those who do decide to enter The Edge's cavernous expanse are 
'g> assaulted by industrial music piped through the mouths of 
~ strategically placed gargoyles. Pornographic cartoons play on a 
,; television screen mounted against an imitation-stone waH, high 
1; above the buzzing needles of the tattoo artists. Glass cases exhibit 
~ silver jewelry of widely varying shapes: barbells, hoops, plugs-the 
&_ tools of the trade. The potencial client, if overwhelmed by sample 
tattoo designs covering the walls, can sit on an overstuffed black 
leather couch and peruse the latest canoo magazines. If this frightened 
lamb hasn't yet mustered the courage to undergo the procedure, she 
can escape with a few sticks of incense or a store T-shirt. 

Bill Steward, manager of The Edge, stands behind the front 
counter surveying the clientele. The only hair visible above his 
shoulders are his goatee and eyebrows. A silver hoop dangles from 
each of his ears. A large, Native 
American-inspired band is 
tattooed around his ·left calf, 
and he bends down to proudly 
show off the mushroom that 
he recently tattooed on his 
ankle. In contrast to this 
hardened exterior, Bill laughs 
freely and often brings his 
employees cookies when he 
returns from lunch breaks. 

Four months ago, Bill's easy 
smile dimmed when he found 
an article entitled "Getting 
Under New Haven's Skin: 
Tattoo Parlor Has Critics 
Fuming" splashed across the 
front page of the New Haven 
Register. Having never been approached by a reporter, Bill wondered 
just why the critics were fuming. 

"We really didn't hear anything about this until after the doors 
opened, and then not even from the city. What we knew we got from 
reading the paper like everyone else," Bill says. He pulls a file from 
behind the counter, and reveals an inch-high stack of newspaper 
clippings. As he leafs through the pile, he periodically stops and says, 
"Nothing. We heard nothing from these people." Ludicrous as it may 
seem, the controversy over the store's location developed without 
The Edge's knowledge or direct participation. 

Following the shop's opening on July 1, its name surfaced in 
several local newspapers and on local talk radio. The Chamber of 
Commerce issued a press release on July 7 stating, "We would no 
more advocate location of a tire-changing facility and car wash, or an 
indoor flea market, on the corner of Church and Chapel than we 
would this type of business ... there are plenty of places for tattoo 
shops to locate outside of the core downtown district." A car wash? A 


flea market? The Edge is not "this type of business;" it is something 
altogether different. 

The Edge is "cool." It's "in." It's "hot." Everything about the 
place, from its mobile advertisement, courtesy of a souped-up 
second-hand Hummer, to· its selling of Punky Color hair dye and 
patchouli incense, screams "twentysomething," "shocking" and 
"rebellious." It may seem strange that Yale no longer has a video 
store, a department store, or a mainstream movie theater near 
campus, but The Edge brings to New Haven an alternative element 
that has become typical of university life. 

A recent article in The New York Times Magazine detailing 
contemporary collegiate culture featured a photograph of a student 
being tattooed. At least three of the seven other Ivy League schools 
are in close proximity to tattoo parlors. Body piercing has been 
featured in everything from Seventeen magazine to 20/20. And the 
way the trend is heading, the more outrageous the piercing the 
better. You may not know it, but that cute guy sitting next to you in 
orgo could be sporting more. metal than just his belt buckle. 

Like most things classified as cool, this phenomenon is all about 
image. The Edge draws its clientele as if by subliminal attraction. Irs 
mystique contributes to its appeal as much as its employees' 
appearances do. Sandi Mansfield, a full-time piercer, can be found 
lounging on one of the black couches at The Edge. Her fuchsia hair 
starkly contrastS with her pale complexion. The jewelry from more 
than ten piercings above her neck occasionally catches the light and 
makes her face sparkle. She says, "I think it's more upscale to fit with 
the look of New Haven. It's like a new breed of tattoo shop. There's 
been a lot of money put in here." This upscale nature is what draws 
Yalies into the shop. At Denton's Jewelers ir. the Chapel Square Mall, 
piercings are $5 across the board {they do ears, noses, and sometimes 
eyebrows). Though piercings at The Edge begin at $25, students opt 
for their services-partly because of the image and partly because of 

With its bourgeois-youth-gone-wild mystique, The Edge also 
brings the newest, and arguably the safest, piercing techniques. 
While piercings at the Chapel Square Mall are done using a piercing 
gun, The Edge uses a hollow piercing needle. As Bill explains, they 
"core out" a hole for the jewelry, rather than "splattering and" 
stretching" the skin with a gun. This method reflects the importance 
of sanitation at The Edge. With white linoleum and mirrored walls, 
the shop's back room resembles a hospital more than a tattoo parlor. 
Inside, sterilization machines loaded with tattoo needles and body 
jewelry hum in constant combat with germs and bacteria. 

Visions of a seedy one-room tattooing dive may have danced 
through city officials' heads this summer, but soon after The Edge 
opened its doors, the city quietly accepted its existence. As Sandi 
says, "New Haven didn't realize what this was going to be." While 
downtown New Haven is being revitalized with the Omni Hotel and


other enterprises, the arrival of businesses 
like The Edge and the nearby Temptations 
strip dub worries urban developers. There 
are no guarantees that places such as these 
will be attractive to the city's desired 
patrons. But do city officials really know 
who these patrons are? 

Yalies are flocking to The Edge. At any 
given time, three or four students roam 
around the shop, pricing both jewelry and 
procedures. They comprise roughly 25 
percent of the shop's business, but Sandi 
says, "I think once everyone gets settled in, 
'we'll get more students." One afternoon a 
Yale student has Korean characters tattooed 
on her shoulder; on another, a New Haven 
man has a Samurai warrior tattooed across 
his entire bicep; later that day, a New Haven 
teen comes in to have her tongue pierced. 
Bill boasts that numerous policemen and 
firemen have been tattooed in the shop as 
well, including a fire chief. "We've gotten 
nothing but positive responses fro~ people. 
The communiry's been really supportive," 
Sandi affirms. 

After four months, all the hype about 
having The Edge on the greater Yale camp4s 
seems to have been generated out of pure 
sensationalism. Students and New Haven 
residents alike have not hesitated to 
patronize the shop. In fact, The Edge is one 
of the few stores on Chapel Street that 
always has customers inside, if not there to 
buy, then at least to look. It is one of the 
nicer establishments on the strip, 
unquestionably cleaner than China King's 
kitchens, and better kept than the 
Casablanca Boutique. "The conception of 
tattoo artists as low-class is historical, but it's 
changing now," Sandi says. "Back then, 
work was done in jail or little shops without 
sterilization. Now it's more acceptable and a 
lot of people are coming back to it." The 
Edge's management and patrons aren't 
looking to tarnish the city's changing image. 
They just want to keep the culture current, 
and maybe add a few extra holes. 

nessa Agard-fones, a sophomore in Calhoun 
College, is a research di"ctor ofTNJ. Lainie 
Rutkow, a junior in. Morse College, is 
production manager of TN]. 


**Title: Women's Sports Are Here to Stay But at What Cost?**
**Author: Genny Taft**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT STICKS OUT IN MY MEMORIES OF 
preseason freshman year is the glimmer of my coach's gold 
ring from winning soccer nationals in college. The rest of 
preseason was ten days of aerobic exercise punctuated by 
anaerobic exercises, some suicide drills, and a few sprints. Four times a 
day the women's varsity soccer team gathered to workout-a run at 6 
a.m., then onto morning and afternoon practices, and recreational sports 
at night, which were barely recreational. At afternoon practices we lined 
up on the goal-line for suicides and our legs pleaded for mercy. 
Throughout the year there was chatter about the team winning the 
Ivy League championship ring. It didn't materialize that year, or last year, 
but the fingers of this year's women are clawing for it. The pleasure of 
playing the game was never a dull incentive compared to a shiny ring, but 
it did move the game in a more professional direction. There were scout-
ing reports, warnings about dangerous players, and meetings in the 
Smilow Field house conference room. The more business-like competi-
tion also meant that for those stranded on the bench it wasn't all adrena-
line and enthusiasm. Some cried for not playing, some cried for not play-
ing well enough, and some cried for playing and getting injured. Though 
this intensity made winning all the more sweet, it made losing all the 
more harsh. 


After the federal government passed Title IX in 1972, requiring all 
colleges to fund women's sports, there was often a shortage of women ath-
letes and a lack of enthusiasm in athletic departments. To drum up sup-
port the government printed propaganda pieces like the one titled, "Try 
it, you'll like it!" Far from the days when the government pleaded for 
women's athletics, women's soccer is now a well-established part of Yale. 
The program boasts a growing fan base, an increasing interest among 
prospective students (ten new recruits this year), a locker room, laundry 
pins, and an extensive wardrobe sponsored by Fila. No one's going to 
push these ladies off the field. 


As women's sports have become established at the collegiate level, 
women have been moving into more professional sports arenas. Through 
institutionalization, commercialization, and unprecedented hype, women's 
sports have emerged as a growing industry. Twenty-five years after Title IX 
initiated the catch-up game, what are the effects of becoming better estab-
lished? Does the development of professional sports mean that in future 
years I'll find the hand of soccer captain Jill Rubenstein plastered across my 
Wheaties? 


Yale women's basketball coach Cecilia DeMarco says that the expan-
sion in the basketball program has provided opportunities for students 
who wouldn't have otherwise thought of Yale. "A number of prospective 
students gained their first exposure to Yale through a phone call by a 
coach who made them aware of the possibilities open to them." On the 
negative side, DeMarco notes that the college athletic system that banks 
on a successful win is dangerous. "It allows young players to be taken 
advantage of, manipulated, and, at a young age, get entangled in a large 
business," she says. DeMarco also cited the trend of not graduating, or 
less dramatically, of getting credit just to play and not to learn. "Injury is a 
reality check," DeMarco says. "One injury and that's it. This new career 
could evaporate, not even leaving a diploma with which to build another 
career." These concerns are slight enough to slip through the cracks of 
Yale's flagstone paths, but for schools that churn out athletes, they are seri-
ous issues. 


Men's sports, a multi-billion dollar industry that serves as the model 
for nascent women's leagues, has long been prone to corruption. Marcus 


--- Page 26 ---

Camby graduated two years ago from the Uni-
versity of Massachusetts and landed with the 
Toronto Raptors as the number two NBA draft 
pick. Camby now admits that as an undergrad-
uate agents hoping to land his talent gave him 
thousands of dollars in the form of cash, rental 
cars, jewelry, stereos, and prostitutes. One 
agent, Wesley Spears, is accused of procuring a 
prostitute for Camby and allowing him to have 
sex with her in his house. Camby isn't too wor-
ried about the exposure of his exploits ruining 
his career. "People have a right to hold what I 
did against me. But I think all it will take is for 
me to make the All-Star team a few times in a 
row to make people forget about the mistakes I 
made in the past," he has said. After both play-
ing the agents and being a victim of their 
games, Camby, now 23, signed with the large 
sports agent company Proserv for a three-year 
$8 million contract. 


I saw the women's national soccer team, 
which competes professionally, play last year; 
the majority of the women on the roster were 
fresh from the University of North Carolina 
and weren't over 20 years old. These women, 
rather teenagers, are forced to make critical 
career decisions when others are still thinking 
about their get-up for the Saturday night Safety 
Dance. When I see little girls in ice skates on 
TV, I wonder if after the competitions they go 
searching for their innocence in the crevices of 
their nylons, the way I was always curious 
about what was in my sock when it crumpled 
at my toes. The development of women's 
sports, on college and professional levels, has 
opened doors to many, to be sure. But as men's 
sports have shown, the existing precedent is 
prone to manipulation, greed, and a Grinch-like 
grasp on innocence. 


"Once upon a mid-day dreary, we 
came to play some ultimate ... " I 
thought they were 12 angry Wes-
leyan women running at us to vindicate their 
loss. They lined up in front of us and sang. 
"Yale, why you want to give us a run-around? 
Sure-fire way to pump us up!" I hadn't heard a 
cheer after a game since the perfunctory "two-
four-six-eight who do we appreciate?" in mid-
dle school and even then it was almost too 
compromising for my competitive mind-set. 


Two years after I walked on the soccer field, 
I walked off and onto the ultimate frisbee field 
across the street. I never would have guessed 
that the view of sports could be so different 
from the other side of the fence. There is noth-
ing in this club sport—except perhaps striving 
to be exceptionally weird—that inhibits players 
from playing to play the game. We piled in cars 
to get to a sectional tournament which seemed 
to me just a meadow with four cones to delin-
eate a field. After a game we would sit down to 
think of a cheer. Trying to come up with rhyth-
mic compliments about the other team, no 
matter if you have won or lost, puts the game 
in perspective. By cheering you show respect to 
not only the other team, but also to the spirit of 
the game. 


"Spirit of the Game"—the unwritten rule 
book for ultimate—isn't a goddess demanding 
sacrifices but a theme which replaces game reg-
ulations and refs. In ultimate, there are only 
self-called fouls, which horrified me at first 
since I have always enjoyed taunting the referee 
and his or her mother. But the spirit of the 
game is to play the game, not to create obstacles 
in the pursuit of a win. When I substituted into 
one game, the girl I was marking smiled and 


--- Page 27 ---

asked me how I was. AHHH! Horror number 
two: no trash talking. Spirit of the game also 
means that everyone seems to know everyone 
at tournaments and this camaraderie reflects an 
attitude of a common goal—advancing and 
enjoying the sport—not just a team goal of 
winning. Sitting in our circle after the game, 
the atmosphere, besides the lingering foot odor, 
was positive. If it wasn't, people wouldn't play, 
because ultimate doesn't come with any other 
benefits. There are no laundry pins, no 
Gatorade, no Fila uniforms. Ultimate is not a 
means to anything else. 


The missing perks do not go unnoticed. 
Ultimate players eagerly seek out the services of 
Yale sports therapist Dr. Barry Goldberg during 
the two hours each week he treats club sport 
athletes. But I asked co-captain Ann Lightbody 
what she would say if ultimate could become a 
varsity sport. Despite the shiny benefits, she 
told me, "No." The fact that the ultimate team 
would turn down the offer of their very own 
practice field, uniforms, coaches, and travel 
expenses shows that, to them, something 
greater would be lost than gained in the 
exchange. Not to mention that dashing plaids 
and argyles would probably be outlawed. 


I stopped playing soccer when my veteran 
position, left bench, was getting crowded and 
the time commitment infringed on my other 
extracurricular activities. But from the sidelines 
I still celebrate the equality, opportunities, and 
higher quality of competition that the progress 
of women's sports has created. As assistant soc-
cer coach Fritz Rodriguez says, "This is an 
overall positive phenomenon. This is where 
women should have been years ago." But as I 
celebrate, I question what the government 
meant by the "it" in "Try it, you'll like it!" Is 
"it" cooperation between universities and 
women, or is "it" simply the men's sports 
industry model? I'm afraid that in the hype of 
the women's sports industry, women will, at all 
levels, give up their supportive cheering and 
follow in the footsteps of the men's $150 shoe 
market. Women have tried "it," are good at 
"it," and institutions like "it." Now that the 
industry is established and prosperous enough 
to ignore that prodding motto, perhaps it 
should simply be, "Try it as you like it." Genny Taft, a junior in Trumbull College, is on 
the staff of TNJ.

**Life on Saturn**
**Author: Alec Hanley Bemis**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Life on Saturn 
Jazz's first and last extraterrestrial band leader 
by Alec Hanley Bemis 
Space Is the Place: The Uvea and nmes of Sun Ra, by John F. Szwed 
(Pantheon, 1997), pp. 476. 
''I 
DON'T SEE HOW THE GOVERNMENT 
or anyone else could expect me to 
agree to being judged by the standards 
of a normal person," Herman Poole Blount 
wrote to the National Service Board for Reli-
gious Objectors in 1942 pleading for an 
exemption from the World War II draft. 
Blount, an introverted and hernia-ridden 
young piano prodigy, had his appeal rejected. 
For four months he bided his time in a jail cell 
and, finally, at a service camp where conscien-
tious objectors did forest work in lieu of mili-
tary service. During this period he wrote 
another letter, concluding with a chillingly 
bleak postscript, "It would probably be more 
merciful to be killed than to be as I am." He 
returned home to Birmingham, Alabama, in 
1943 a changed man, one ready for a new life, 
a life to which earthly standards would never 
apply. 

In 1952, after 38 years spent working 
under terrestrial constraints, Blount renamed 
himselfLe Sony'r Ra-Sun Ra to friends, asso-
ciates, and the world at large. When be began 
to claim Saturn rather than Birmingham as his 
birthplace, it was assured that no one would 
again characterize him as normal. Sun Ra 
developed into the most unconventional mem-
ber of the jazz avant-garde, a local eccentric 
wherever he went, a scholar of mystical etymol-
ogy, Egyptology, and secret Biblical equations 
whose derivations only he could trace. As a jazz 
composer, his songs supplemented standard 
jazz instrumentation with a bevy of handmade 
and foreign instruments with names like the 
flying saucer, the lightning drum, the boom-
bam, the rnistro clarinet, and the cosmic tone 
organ, shaping a musical corpus whose creativi-
ty and uniqueness rivals that of any musician. 
Performances by his band, the Arkestra, might 
find between five and 80 musicians clothed in 
flowing multi-colored robes and headdresses-
Sun Ra decorated his with a scale model of the 
cosmos-blowing and beating their instru-
ments in a fury while dancers, vocalists, and 
free-form gesticulators moved, grooved, and 
chanted amidst a host of colored lights. By the 
time he left this earthly plane in 1993, Sun Ra 
had gained countless acolytes and fans and 
recorded over 120 albums filled With the most 
out sounds ever to vibrate the ear drums of this 
planet's simpler, humanoid populace. 

While Sun Ra's life was filled wirh the kind 
of unique incidents readers love to read about, 
the mysterious existence he led offers a daunt-
ing challenge to the biographer. In his recently 
published Sun Ra biography, SptU-e is the Place, 
John Szwed (Hon. MA '82), Yale professor of 
anthropology, Afro-American studies, and 
American studies, welcomes the challenge that 
Sun Ra's life provides. Szwed, known to under-
graduates for his popular jazz history course, 
acknowledges the difficulty of reading Sun Ra 
in a section of the book entitled "The Inter-
view as Jeremiad," which positions Sun Ra's 
words as an extension of his playing: 

He talked in an unceasing monoronic flow 
which absorbed everything in its pa~ues­
tions, comments, objections, disrractions. He 
soloed wirh words, calling and responding to 
himself, using per licks or filling back on patent-
ed phrases when memory or creativiry tailed 
him, riffing, keeping the music of his words 
moving forward in a scream of energy which pro-
pelled him and maimained his Strength and 
hdped bring a hint of danger into his perfor-
mances. Threaded through all of his talk was rhe 
literature of the world, references to daily news 
events or what he had jusr seen on television. 
And he never strayed far from the Christian 
scripture which he sometimes used ironically, 
sometimes literally. He had the preacher's love of 
the extended meraphor, pushing a single figure 
to its breaking poinr, revising, and shifting direc-
tion in mid-senrence. 

To draw meaning from these verbal gam-
bits, these impenetrable constructs of reference 
and apparent non sequitur, Szwed tells us one 
might have to read 20 lectures or 30 interviews. 
Always in search of a clear summation of phi-
losophy, a key document to elucidate the tangle 
of a life, what is the scholar to make of such a 
man? How does the writer cope with a subject 
from outer space? 

T
he answer, 
perhaps, 
lies in secret 
history, an offihoot of postmodernism-
the punching bag for those who confusedly 
point at academia and ask, "What madness 
passes for knowledge in the 1990s?" Propo-
nents of secret history are dedicated to reinforc-
ing the elusive connections which bind togeth-
er cultural moments by the thinnest of threads. 
Perhaps Szwed's most direct predecessor in 
this endeavor is Greil Marcus, a writer with the 
intellectual and cultural breadth to go from 
teaching American studies at UClA Berkeley 
to writing for Rolling St<Jne. In his 1989 book 
Lipstick Traces: A Seem Hist<Jry of the Twmtiah 
Century, Marcus constructs an ornate non-lin-
ear narrative connecting the 1916 founding of 
Zurich Dada, the French Situationist Interna-
tional of the 1950s, and punk rock circa the 
Sex Pistols' 1976 American tour. Weaved 
throughout his book are unexpected references 
to pop culture detritus like Police Academy 2 
and Michael Jackson and more intellectual 
domains like Gnostic Christianity and the 
Frankfun School. Marcus gave license to many 


--- Page 29 ---

to view history as a continuous web of hermet-
ic geniuses, avant-garde intellectuals, and 
crackpot artists linked by onqmiversal uncon-
scious. In some cases his method has led sec-
ond-rate authors to use tangential connection 
as the basis for establishing impossible causal 
relationships. This tendency has bled into the 
mainstream as well. Between X-Files and the 
militia movement, alien abductions and Men 
In Black, there is a liberal sprinkling of the dis-
sociative associations of which secret history is 
made. Thankfully, Szwed returns secret history 
from the realm of the paranoid conspiracy the-
orist, proving that sometimes such associations 
stem from more than imaginative leaps. 

Signs that Szwed has ingested Marcus litter 
the book. (His occasional mentions of the 
Gnostics- secret history's favorite touchstone 
for explanations of all that is hermetic and 
unexplained, essentially the black helicopters of 
secret history's adherenrs--<:inches that conclu-
sion.) In the figure of Sun Ra, Szwed has found 
the perfect candidate for this historical method. 
Sun Ra not only had a deep-seated belief in the 
connections between the ancients and the 
future, he did his best to express this belief in 
every word and gesture. 

A
t first glance, Sun Ra's pattern of thought 
seems scattered-he made connections 
between Egypt, outer space, and the plight of 
blacks in the United States. It would be easy to 
plot out the points in Sun Ra's intellectual life 
as a series of solitary dots on a nonsensical 
chart. Indeed, many have painted Sun Ra as a 
brilliant buffoon-a ridiculous, albeit talented 
footnote in the history of music. Szwed, how-
ever, connects the dots and depicts Sun Ra's 
crackpot ideas as a unified intellectual land-
scape. He does this by taking Sun Ra seriously, 
a method previously untried with a man 
known to most as the jazz. king of the cosmos. 
Sun Ra's identification with Egypt is con-
nected to black nationalism by way of obscure, 
early twentieth-century philosophical and 
quasi-academic books with names like The 
Children of the Sun, God Wills the Negro, and 
The Anacalypsis: An Attempt to Draw Aside the 
Veil of the Satanic Isis or an Inquiry lnw the Ori-
gin oflanguages. Szwed points out that a 1791 
essay on Sun Ra's all-time favorite reading 
list-Count Augustine Vo1ney's The Ruins, or 
Meditation on the Revolutions of Empires and the 
Law ofNaru~was also a favorite ofWilliam 
Blake, Thomas Jefferson, Thomas Paine, and 
OCTOBER 17· 1997 
Walt Whitman. With a figure as unconvention-
al as Sun Ra, it is easy to pass off certain interests 
as mere outlandishness for its own sake. Szwed 
goes directly to Sun Ra's sources and reads them 
with the same attention and seriousness he uses 
to read the man. Szwed's path lets us imagine 
how Sun Ra might have thought, why he cher-
ished what he did, and how he made the trip 
from the South to the spaceways. 

By the later pages of the book, Szwed goes 
even farther, entering Sun Ra's mind and mim-
icking his mental process in prose. Take, for 
example, the question of Sun Ra's distaste for 
earthly religion and the signs and symbols of 
Christianity. Sun Ra left us with traces of his 
faith: a few harsh reactions upon seeing the 
crucifix, a flair for wordplay and punning, his 
insistence that he was never born because birth 
meant you must die. Szwed solves the riddle. 
The cross represenrs death, the worship of the 
god of death as opposed to the ever-living god. A 
whole civilization has been created establishing 
the values of death as good. So the cross is some-
thing sinister, a reminder of a trick and a failure. 
It reminds Christ and all the messiahs mat if you 
rerum, you'll get it again. "When Simon, Peter, 
and Andrew were fishing with ners, Jesus called 
to them, and told them he would make them 
fishers of men" (Matthew 4:19]. "Net" reversed 
is "ten"; X is the Roman numeral for "ren." The 
net is Christ, he is being used to trap humans. 
"X-mas" is a mass for the dead. ... The confeder-
ate Aag has an X on ir .... 

When Szwed first begins to spice his narrative 
with bits such as this, it jars, but the overall 
effect slips the reader's consciousness into Sun 
Ra's-the only way to make the beliefs of this 
unearthly character ring true. Szwed quite per-
suasively argues that Sun Ra's belief in the 
alchemy of the word as the key to meaning is 
an intellectual system with an unshakable form 
ofimemallogic. 

hankfully, Szwed allows himself to go 
beyond the evidence his subject left on 
this earth, connecting him to traditions of a 
more recent vintage. Images of intergalactic 
escape--the common focus of Sun Ra's chants 
from the stage--are compared to slavery-era 
spirituals and Baptist hymns which evoke pre-
vious struggles at the base of the pyramids, a 
return to the Promised Land, and flight. 

For Szwed, Sun Ra's pseudonym is more 
than a spuriously chosen stage name. First 
there is a quote from an address by the Nation 
of Islam's founder, Elijah Muhammad, who 
was making his way around Chicago at the 
same time as Sun Ra was getting his chops in 
the Windy City as an itinerant jazz man: "My 
poor blind, deaf, and dumb people are going 
by the wrong names and until you accept the 
truth of your identity and accept the names of 
your people and nation we will never be 
respected because of this alone." 

Szwed then traces the .evolution of renam-
ing among Mrican-Americans, moving from 
names which connote the lack of a true identi-
ty (Malcolm X, Frederick Douglass) to a dis-
cussion of stage names meant co lend a regal air 
(Duke Ellington, Count Basic) to a concluding 
quote from The Artist Formerly Known as 
Prince which indicates another possible ratio-
nale for renaming: "I don't mind if people are 
cynical or make jokes-that's part of it- but 
this is what I chose to be called. You find out 
quickly who respects you. It took Muhammad 
Ali years before people stopped calling him 
Cassius Clay." 

Szwed points out the traditions Sun Ra fol-
lowed and the practices he strengthened, citing 
another intergalactic entertainer, George Clin-
ton, who said, "This boy was definitely out to 
lunch-the same place I eat at." 

Despite the impressive scope and erudition 
of Szwed's book, there are some areas sadly 
lacking in attention. After the minute details 
given in descriptions of Sun Ra's early years, the 
later half of this book comes as somewhat of a 
disappointment. From the 1960s onward, the 
decades seem to bleed together. This is under-
standable--after Sun Ra assumed an inter-
galactic form of citizenship, he became less 
forthcoming regarding the minutiae of his 
life-but it is a shame since this will likdy be 
the best account of the man that we ever get. 

Finally, though, Sun Ra is a figure defYing 
rigid categorizations, closed loops, definite 
answers. Szwed kindly gives the reader the 
room to hold onto a piece of the unreality 
whicb Sun Ra fostered. So, when we read in 
another of Sun Ra's notes to the Board for Reli-
gious Objectors, "Although I do not know you, 
I feel more at home writing to you than I 
would anyone nearer to me in vicinity," we can 
believe that he was writing not just to a group 
of men and women who were deciding his fate 
on earth, bur to beings who danced among the 
stars--a hello note in advance of his final, 
posthumous homecoming. 

laJ 
Alec Hanley Bemis, a senior in Berkeley College, 
is a managing editor ofTNJ.


**So, You Want to Be an Academic Superstar?**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

So, You Want to Be an 
Academic Superstar? 
Watch a master and learn. 
by Gabriel Snyder 

SPIRING ACADEMICS! HEADS UP! AS ANY GESO MEMBER 
knows, you can't get a job .in academia unless you're a 
star. But if you want to be one of the truly great-a lecturer 
who can draw 500 students to a class, a scholar known 
beyond the ivory tower-you're going to have to work hard 
and start soon. 

Jonathan Spence (SY '61, GRD '65) is just such an 
Academic Superstar. A world-renowned scholar of Chinese 
history, he allegedly penned the bulk of the 876-page-long 
The Search for Modern China with nothing but a notepad 
while sitting in a booth at Naples. And, with his Sean Con-
nery looks, he has long been a campus sex symbol. Now, Spence is in the 
middle of an international tiff that has managed to make the front page 
of The New Yt>rk Times and newspaper entertainment columns across 
the country. 

Lowly Oxford knowledge worker David Selbourne was set this fall 
to publish a book, The City of Light, which describes the voyage to 
China in 1271 of Jacob d'Ancona, a Jewish-Italian merchant. If true, 
Jacob would unseat Marco Polo's title as the first European to tell the 
West about the rich culture of Asia. Astounded, the Times gushed in a 
front page arricle that Selbourne's book "is an immensely important 
find." 

Not so fast, our dear Spence said. Word had leaked out that in a 
soon-to-be-published review of The City of Light (incidentally for The 
New York Times Book Review), Spence would call the manuscript a hoax. 
Eight days after the book was heralded as a triumph, publisher Little 
Brown announced that the release of Selbourne's book has been post-
poned indefinitely. A Little Brown publicist was quoted, "We heard 
through reporters last week that Spence felt it was a fake and would be 
saying so in the Times." For his part, Selbourne whined, "Uncreative 
_ academics are always distressed when a fellow academic writes some-
~ thing which attractS attention and becomes popular or sells." But to no 
~ avail; a Titan had spoken. 

~ 
If you wish some day to wield enough intellectual might to topple a 
~ ground-breaking book in one fell swoop, pay attention. 
t: 
We find Spence in a bright and airy office in the House That Gaddis 
~ Built, otherwise known as Luce Hall, waiting to counsel undergraduates 
~ during office hours. Spence is properly attired in a striped button-up 
~ shirt and dull green sweater vest. Preferred accessories include his tor-
~ toise shell reading glasses (though he's nor wearing them at the moment) 
~and a salt-and-pepper beard. 

Academic Superstar ruk number one: To be an Academic Superstar, you 
must look like an Academic Supmtar. 
After a reporter intrOduces himself and asks if he can 
schedule an interview with him, Spence is quite gracious as he 
offers a seat at his table and says, "Oh no, let's do it right here." 
The reporter, embarrassingly unprepared, sits down to begin. 
Spence claims to have no idea why the media has paid 
so much attention to his gripe with Selboume. "I think this 
is very much a non-story," he says. Spence even aims a dart 
at his own editors at The New York Times for putting the 
article lauding Selbourne's "discovery" on the front page in 
the first place. "Entire revolutions get less space. I cannot 
understand the thought process behind it." However, Spence is no 
stranger to the media; he frequently contributes to the New Yt>rker, The 
New Republic, and The New 10rk Times Book &view. And over the past-
week, Spence has received numerous calls from magazines, newspaper~, 
and radio stations. During the interview he pulls out a yellow notepad 
with several sheets almost entirely coated with pencilings of names and 
telephone numbers. "If anything, it shows the media loves a good mys-
tery," Spence concludes. 

Academic Supmtar rule number two: Hold the press in disrtgard, but 
be nice to them all the same. Above all, get hooked up with a good media 
outfit. 

Though even the publisher says that it was Spence's opinion which 
led Little Brown to shelve The City of Light, Spence does not think Little 
Brown should have canceled the book on his account. He says, "It seems 
to me it would be silly to do so. Book reviewing is an egalitarian process. 
They should have cast the net much wider." Yet, he does not feel Set-
bourne's book merits publishing. "I wouldn't censor Selbourne, but I 
don't think scholars could get much from his book." Rather than 
Spence: Destroyer of Books, he sees himself playing a much smaller role 
in the incident. "Here I am," he claims, "simple homespun Yalie, saying 
I don't know about this. If anything, I would say it's the majesty of 
Mother Yale. I'm just one of the workers in the vineyard." 

Academic Superstar ruk number three: Act aloof No matter what the 
situation, never admit that you are, indeed, an Academic Superstar. HOUJa)-
er, making grand, authoritative statnnents is requisite. 
Coroliary tQ Academic Superstar rule number three: &main unyield-
ingly loyal tQ the univmity that granted you tenure in the firrt place. 

When a student shows up to talk with her professor, the reporter 
excuses himself On his way out, Spence, in his dignified and learned 
British accent, says, "It was a pleasure meeting you." 

Academic Superstar rule number four: Master a foreign accent. IIIJ 
Gabriel Snyder, o senior in Berkeley College, is editor-in-chief ofTNJ. 
OcrosER 17,1997 



**Title: Store Hours**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

Store Hours 
Monday thru Friday 
7am-7pm 
Saturday 
9am-5pm 
Sunday 
10am-4pm 
Staples, 84 Whalley Ave., Hew Haven, CT • 77 3-3353 


**Title:  Yale Repertory Theatre Student Pass**
**Page number(s): 32**

plays for $51 
save 
-------------------- only 
. per play! 
Here's how it works ... 
Your student passbook entitles you 
to 1 ticket for each of the 6 shows 
at the Yale Rep during the 1997-98 
season. Reservations may be made 
in advance either in person or over 
the phone. To pick up your tickets, 
simply present your pass with a 
valid Yale ID. 
That's it! 

