Publication date: October 2010
Volume: 43
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD**
- Publishers: Samantha Ellner, Tim Shriver
- Editors-in-Chief: Haley Cohen, Kate Selker
- Managing Editors: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman, Bob Jeffery
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Jane Long, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Eleanor Kenyon, Sarah Mich, Sarah Nutman, Maya Seidler
- Copy Editors: Heeseung Kim, Victor Zapana
- Business Director: Helena Malchione
- Associate Editors: Laura Blake, Julia Fisher, Helen Knight
- Online Editors: Bay Gross, Jimmy Murphy
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, bert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Karnensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- 4 POINTS OF DEPARTURE
- 8 SNAPSHOT - One Mans Trash - Aliyya Swaby
- 11 PROFILE - Paul Hammer - Sanjena Sathian
- 14 HURTING ENOUGH - Cory Finley
- 20 SEPARATING THE MEN FROM THE BOYS - Emily Rappaport
- 26 SHOTS IN THE DARK - Yale Men Circa 1943 - Brianne Bowen & Susannah Shattuck
- 28 PLEDGING ALLEGIANCE - Ali "Weiner
- 36 PERSONAL ESSAY - Night Drive - jacque Feldman
- 38 ENDNOTE - Bay Gross


**Title:  4 POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author:  [Author not listed]**
**Page number(s): 4**


[Content not provided, only page number]


<br>

**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Aliyya Swaby**
**Page number(s): 8**





**Title: PROFILE**
**Author: Sanjena Sathian**
**Page number(s): 11**





**Title: HURTING ENOUGH**
**Author: Cory Finley**
**Page number(s): 14**


A tattoo artist natned Duck helps one Yalie confront · 
his fear of needles.



**Title: SEPARATING THE MEN FROM THE BOYS**
**Author: Emily Rappaport**
**Page number(s): 20**


A look at a WGSS class on what it means to be a n1an .



**Title: SHOTS IN THE DARK**
**Author: Brianne Bowen & Susannah Shattuck**
**Page number(s): 26-27**


Yale Men Circa 1943



**Title: PLEDGING ALLEGIANCE**
**Author: Ali "Weiner**
**Page number(s): 28**


Gangs, drugs, violence, and the youth of New Haven.



**Title: PERSONAL ESSAY**
**Author: jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 36-37**


Night Drive



**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Bay Gross**
**Page number(s): 38**





**Sunday in the Park**
**Author: Helen Gao**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
.. 
•· 
' • 
By Helen Gao 
. 
.,. . .+t. ' 
1/11/J/Il/A 
11 
ars 
line 
both 
sides 
of fashion of 18th century-English 
-....the 
road 
in 
front 
of landscape gardens. After the death 
New Haven's Edgerton Park. A 
of Brewster and his wife, the 
jogger slows down, removes his 
grounds were gifted to the city of 
headphones, and peers over the 
New Haven and they've stayed in 
wall to see what's going on. I look 
its possession ever since. 
with him. We see the top of a red 
In 1987, local volunteers created 
inflatable slide, just visible arnong 
the fair that has since become a 
the canopy of maple trees. We hear 
the giggles of children melting into 
a faint ensemble of trumpets and 
oboes playing in the distance. 
"Sunday in the Park" takes place 
annually in Edgerton Park, a 22-
acre site given to the city in 1965. 
The grounds were first home to Eli 
Whitney and later to industrialist 
Frederick Brewster, who replaced 
Whitney's mansion with a Tudor-
style house he called "Edgerton," 
for its location on the edge of 
town. Brewster commissioned the 
grounds to be redesigned in the 
4 
New Haven tradition, occurring 
one Sunday in mid-September 
every year. They bring to town 
live music and attractions, such 
as chess, wagon rides, moonwalk, 
and Hula Hoops in an endeavor 
to create a welcoming fair, where 
fa rnilies relax and friends mingle in 
the early days of fall. 
Standing arnid farnilies arnbling 
by 
with 
baby 
carriages 
and 
unicyclists 
circling 
around 
clown outfits, I make my way to 
a wagon half-full with passengers · 
and climb on. Sitting on my left is 
-
a young girl with short blonde curls 
and pink cheeks. She is waving to 
an imaginary crowd as the wagon 
pulls off with a creak. 
The 
ponies 
gently trot the 
wagon around a white fountain 
whose recent renovation was made 
possible by the $19,000 raised at 
last year's fair. The pale marble is 
now bathed in the morning sun 
and emits a faint glow, like a giant 
halo. 
A turn of the wagon reveals a 
greenhouse on my left. Behind the 
frosted glass, blurred figures move 
among clouds· 'of green, red, and 
yellow. Edgerton Park Conservancy 
' 
is offering introductory tours of 
tropical plants to elementary school 
students. The simulation rainforest 
allows children to experience rare 
plants first-hand, and even take 
home their favorite kinds. A boy 
marches out of the greenhouse 
carrying an exotic potted plant. 
My little neighbor gasps, clutches 
her mother's arm, and squirms on 
the seat. I can tell she wants one 
too. 


As the wagon makes its way along 
a narrowing path that disappears 
behind a hill, we enter a quieter 
area. Entertainment booths, from 
a chess stand to a petting zoo, 
sprinkle both sides of the road, all 
requiring pre-purchased tickets. 
Next to a desk behind the "Yale 
Peabody 
Muse.um" 
banner, 
a 
bespectacled woman bows over a 
boy of six or seven in a Superman 
T-shirt. She puts a small wooden 
ring on his head and tries to 
balance a giant shallow ba •nboo 
basket on top of it. 
"This is how people in the 
Philippines carry bananas," she 
explain~~,· 
"Isn't -rhat fascinating." The boy's 
mother nods and pushes on her 
son's shoulders. "C'mon now, see if 
you can walk!" 
His face covered by the shadow 
of the basket, the boy stumbles 
forward several steps and falls onto 
his knees. The basket roBs off onto 
the grass and his mother chuckles, 
retrieving the basket from its 
landing spot. 
Once distant, screa•ns and cheers 
have grown louder as our wagon 
winds through the booths and 
veers toward the front of the hill. 
The girl next to me suddenly sits 
up straight, and her eyes widen as 
she cries, "Look! Bungee jump!" 
The wagon comes to a halt but 
the eager little bodies inside keep 
fidgeting. 
The children throw 
themselves over -the rails, land 
awkwardly on their sides, climb 
up, and rush ahead, their parents 
trailing behind with backpacks 
and calling out their natnes. 
When her mother finally catches 
her, my new friend is already 
in line for the bungee jump. 
"Amelie 
there." 
Her 
mother 
squeezes a ticket into her fist, 
while Amelie eyes the boy ahead of 
her. He is already standing on the 
giant tra•npoline, putting his legs 
through loops of a safety strap with 
a volunteer's help. 

"We come 
ere every year, 
Amelie's mother says as she shakes 
her head. "She never gets enough 
of it." 
Amelie hands her $2 ticket to 
the volunteer and races toward the 
trampoline. She knows she's about 
to soar and flip in the sky. 
A list of attractions in the park 
continues to spill out from the·· 
loudspeaker above my head. "It's 
Sunday in the Park." The voice 
repeats, "Sunday in the Park!" 


**The Judges' Flight**
**Author: Victoria Sanchez**
**Page number(s): 6**

, 
I 
By Victoria Sanchez 
n 1793, Ebenezer Brackett larnented: 
Yet scarce are mentiona in the historic page . 
Thy mother Britain's best-deserving sons, 
Who, fled from fate, and second Charles's rage, 
Resorted hither 
here reposa their bones. 

In 2010, New Haven native Nathaniel Zelinsky'13 
suggests Brackett's concerns about the preservation 
of this historical record were unfounded. The legend 
of Britain's best deserving sons lauded by Brackett 
in his "A Poem Commemorative of Goffe," Whaley 
and Dixwell is, according to Zelinsky, "a New Haven . 
story that· everyone knows. I don't remember not 
knowing about it." And indeed, it is a staple tale of 
the city's elementary school curriculum~ . . . 

The legend known to today's New Haven 
schoolchildren is simple: The judges fled . to 
Massachusetts and then to New Haven, where they 
hid from the king's agents. "It would really stink if 
they got caught and killed, but I've always .assumed 
that they survived," says Zelinsky. His indoctrination 
into the myth went no further. A brief foray into the 
marble walls of the Beinecke (or on the Internet), 
however, illuminates the rest of the history . 

The year is 1648.'1he location of our tale, England. 
The country has been devastated by two decades of 
civil war, and Oliver Cromwell's government has 
found the former King, Charles I, guilty of "High 
Treason and other high Crymes," a sentence that 
calls for beheading. Among the ·54 men who sign the 
death · warrant are John Dixwell, Edward Whalley, 
and his son-in-law Willian1 Goffe. After sbme legal 
hullabaloo, King Charles dies theatrically on Jan. 30, 
1649, declaring, "I am the martyr of the people." His 
head is severed with a single blow. 
Unfortunately for 
our, heroes, 
the 
English 
Restoration of 1660 brings King Charles II into 
power with a vengeance. Here then, the story starts 
in earnest; the death warrant that Whalley, Goffe, 
and Diwell signed condemning Charles I now serves 
as their own death warrant. They are not safe in 
England. Whalley and Goffe flee over 3,000 miles 
to colonial Carnbridge, Mass., where Gov. Endicott 
welcomes them warmly in late July of 1660. While 
the historical record is unclear, Dixwell presumably 
makes his way to America as well. 



**Title: Whalley and Goffe**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Whalley 
and 
· Goffe 
live 
handsomely in Ca rnbridge, where 
the town members admire not 
only their past actions but their 
piety and bravery. Regrettably, it's 
less than a year before word of their 
• 
The Green is still a gravryard, 
and John Davenport) New 
Haven~ founder, is the leader 
of the local church. The towns-
folk still believe in magic and 
' 
witche~ and East Rock) though 
less than five miles awqy) is a 
. wild child of Mother Nature. 
whereabouts reaches the English 
crown, and they flee to avoid 
arrest. Whalley and · Goffe arrive 
in New Haven, America's first 
planned city, in March 1661. The 
town consists of only nine squares 
and SOil);~ outlying farmland. The 
Green i~ still a graveyard, and John 
Davenport, New Haven's founder, 
is the leader of the local church. 
The townsfolk still believe in 
magic and witches, and East Rock, 
though less than five miles away, is 
a wild child of Mother Nature. 
-
Yet Whalley and Goffe's reprieve 
is short-lived. The king of England 
renews the orders for their capture, 
and Massachusetts issues another 
warrant for their arrest. "Kirk and 
Kelland, two zealous royalists" 
(as Brackett describes them in his 
poem) leave Boston to ferret the 
two fugitives out. Whalley and 
Goffe lay a false trail to Milford and 
return to New Haven to hide in 
the Rev. John Davenport's house. 
Aware of the increasingly severe 
threats to Davenport, Whalley 
and Goffe nobly ·resolve to turn 
themselves in and then settle on 
another plan of action: gypsy life. 
OCTOBER 2010 
With the help of one Mr. Jones, the 
former pair bounce from a barn, to 
a mill, to the woods (reportedly, 
they hide under a bridge as their 
pursuers crossed on horseback), 
before arriving at the modern-day 
historical site of Judges' Cave here 
in -New Haven. While Kirk and 
Kellond are ·utterly hoodwinked 
and travel to the Dutch colony of 
New Amsterdarn (now New York 
City) before returning to Boston, 
Native American hunters discover 
our heroes' humble dwelling at the 
remote West Rock location and 
report the two beleaguered rebels 
in 1664. 
From there, Whalley and Gaffe 
flee Judges' Cave to Hadley, Mass., 
where they are briefly reunited 
with Dixwell. He eventually parts ·· 
for New Haven, where he takes 
the name of John Davis, marries, 
and has two children. Whalley and 
Goffe, unknown to the majority of 
the Hadley's residents, remain in 
the minister's house for the next 
15 or 16 years. Whalley dies first, 
and Gaffe perhaps travels south 
afterward (some swear he was seen 
in Hartford). Their resting places 
are unknown. 
---- . 
Though he didn't know this 
mysterious end to 
the story, 
Zelinsky's 
relationship 
to. the 
three judges took on its own 
legendary spin this summer when 
he interned at Parlia anent. While 
on a palace tour, he encountered 
Charles' death warrant in the 
Queen's Robing Room, displayed 
on an old piece of parchment. The 
54 signautres on the docurnent 
include Whalley's, Goffe's, and 
Dixwell's. "Whalley is actually very 
early on and you notice it when 
you look at the death warrant." 
He is fourth, to be precise, right 
under Cromwell, his name, like 
the others, accompanied by a seal 
of red wax. 
An ocean . away and centuries 
later, it is green and white paint, 
and metal poles that bear the 
heroes' 
na rnes 
our 
industrial 
tribute to a revolutionary past. 


**Dumpster Diving: A Sustainable Choice?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
'
I
1 •
. ·~·dncluded two 
~
... ,, 
whole red pep-
pers, 1ve bagged 
· sa.fads 
Cobb 
• • 
· and .Greek two 
·>almond pies, a 
,.; ··bag o avoca-
wheat bread, 
"".:, 
" 
;:;.,_;-.a I sack · o po-
. 't 
: .. tatoes, a hand-
. , 
10 
ul o tomatoes, 
· nine contain-
ers o unexpired 
to u, and . more 
·than· 4 dozen 
eggs. 
.. 
. 
< 
broken during shipping. 
For their part, consumers bring 
food home and forget about it in 
their refrigerators, . and restaurants 
throw 
out 
uneaten 
portions 
of meals. 
Unsurprisingly, 
the 
majority of food wasted is produce 
and dairy, which . spoil quickly. 
One 1987 University of Oregon 
study showed that most household 
food is thrown out because of 
misconceptions about perishable 
foods. Many people do not realize 
that milk .and other dairy products, 
unless obviously sour, can still be 
consumed after their expiration 
dates. 
Because of this, good food 
often goes to waste. According 
to the United States Department 
of Agriculture, in 1995, almost 
96 billion pounds of food-
27 percent of the year's edible 
food supply were lost at the 
farm, retail and consumer levels . . 
Although some was diseased or 
spoiled, a. significant percentage of 
food lost at the retail level was fit 
-
for distribution. 
Dumpster divers have no trouble 
finding food from all levels of the 
food pyra rnid, including meat, 
fresh produce, and dairy products. 
The food 
is 
often minimally 
da rnaged and needs only to be 
washed before being eaten. Shirley 
said he has never gotten sick from 
salvaged food. 
, 
If only five percent of the 96 
billion pounds of food wasted in 
1995 were recovered, the arnount 
would adequately feed 4 million 
people for one day. Food recovery 
prograrns 
across 
country 
seek to rectify this problem by 
redistributing leftover food, while 
businesses and restaurants have 
been implementing prograrns to 
reduce food waste for economic 
reasons. There are other stores, 
like Attic us in New Haven, that 
leave out their edible waste for the 
public to take . 
Many Yale 
students 
eagerly 
participate in events ~such as Spring 
Salvage or Eli Exchange, in which 
students trade clothing and other 
used items, but would never climb 
into a dumpster for the sarne 
items. Potential legal and health 
risks 
combined 
with 
personal 
standards for food intake may give 
many pause, but for those without 
those qualms, the choice is logical. 
As Frank explained: "I eat food. I 
know a place where I can get food 
that is free. It's going to be wasted 
otherwise. As long as [grocery 
stores] are being wasteful, I feel 
totally justified in taking advantage 
of their waste." 


**A Ride with Paul Hammer**
**Page number(s): 12**

e're pulling onto the main road. My driver 
carefully looks over his right shoulder to 
check for traffic. A minivan passes, and the middle-
aged, portly driver visibly snaps his neck around, 
craning to get a better look at us. The next driver 
does the sa rne. When the street is finally clear, we 
slip into the traffic headed down Orange Street, and 
we're off. 
I wish we were moving a little faster, because at 
. this pace it's hard to escape the stares of pedestrians 
. and drivers alike. Riding in a pedicab is more 
·conspicuous than I had anticipated in the everyday · 
street scene of New Haven. 
My driver has no such worries. He grins widely 
at each of our spectators, calling out, "You set the 
fare! We'll take you almost anywhere!" This is an 
exhibition for him, a chance to perform as much as 
advertise. As we maneuver through the thick Friday 
afternoon traffic, he gets almost as many waves as 
befuddled stares. 
"You seem to know a lot of faces," I comment. 
"Well 
they know me," he laughs. 
*** 
It has only been two weeks since Paul Harnmer 
launched his new pedicab company, but he's 
already made his mark. His signature helmet can be 
spotted from blocks away 
it's bright purple, with a 
multicolored mini-umbrella attached to the top. He 
explains that the helmet, like many parts· of his life, 
melds his two great loves: bicycling and dra rna. 
"With a side order of social justice and activism," 
he adds, breaking into a grin, his mustache bristles 
curving upwards. 
· 
The eccentric headgear may be one reason so 
many people recognize Ha rnmer on our ride, but 
it's certainly not the only one; he identifies some of 
the folks waving as being acquaintances from New 
Haven's art world and volunteer scene. Harnmer 
wears many hats (not all of them purple) in this 
city, but beneath them all is the sa rne jovial smile, 
the san1e clipped bristly mustache, and the san1e 
energetic ctttzen. 
Harnmer is not just a pedicab driver. He is the 
founder of a nonprofit that puts kids on bikes, a 
playwright, an active participant in community 
theater, and a volunteer at numerous community 
service groups across the city, from the Integrated 
Refugee Immigrant Services (IRIS) to the National 
Association of Mental Illness. Ha nuner seems to be 
everywhere 
a staple of the community. 
12 
Looking at Hammer's resume, it's easy to forget 
that, for him, service is as much personal therapy 
as it is a fight on behalf of local refugees or 
underprivileged kids. Years ago, he was diagnosed 
with bipolar disorder, and in 2004, he tells me, 
"I made the cover of the New Haven Register." A 
pause. "By jumping off of East Rock." 
The attention his suicide attempt garnered forced 
Hatnmer to grapple with his bipolar disorder. And 
six years later, though he is still in recovery from 
·brain injuries sustained from his fall, he can smile a 
watery grin and joke about starting a support group, 
"The Bi-Polar Bears." 
. "My commitment to working with others ... 
• That is definitely a difference in my focus since 
· God spared my life." And he remains grateful. As 
he considers the incident six years ago, his eyes are 
tinged with red, and he tears up. "I than,t<: God every 
day that I'm alive. I always wear my helmet." 
Harnmer can remember his first bike ride 
he's 
glad he was wearing a helmet, then, too. His first 
time riding, as a child in New York City, Ha rnmer 
drove straight through a sprinkler. He went flying 
over the bicycle seat and was soaked through. 
Undeterred, however, he bounced back and spent 
much of his childhood biking around Central Park, 
taking in the puppeteers and Shakespeare in the Park 
and the zoo. 
. At 14, Harnmer embarked on his first cycling 
tour around the northeast, pedaling between youth 
hostels, where he met people from all over the 
world. 
"I'd never experienced that," he explains. 
"Bicycling takes you places 
literally." 
Today, we ride past the Green, Old Carnpus just 
visible across the way. Ha rnmer has known and 
loved these streets since he moved to the city years 
ago. After graduating from Wesleyan University, 
Harnmer picked New Haven as his next residence 
because it was near both Boston and New York, 
where many of his Wesleyan classmates were headed. 
As he immersed himself in the local community 
theater scene, worked in the Yale Law School coding 
investigations, and volunteered at a senior citizen · · · 
theater company, Ha rnmer stumbled upon the Yale 
School of Management. 
"I applied on a lark and on a dare," he reminisces 



**Title: The Accidental Socialist**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
with a laugh. "I thought I'd stick around for a 
month or so 
write a spoof on business school 
but 
then I fell in love with the place." 

Enrolling in business school seems incongruous 
with Hammer's ideals 
what was a community-
organizing, anti-capitalist, biking-playwright doing 
as an MBA candidate? · 
"People asked me 
what's a socialist democrat like 
you doing in business school?" he laughed. "But it 
really is a school of management." 

Even after Ha tnmer graduated, he stuck around 
New Haven. Calling it the cultural capital of the 
state, Hatnmer says there's nowhere he'd rather live 
Peo le asked me 
what~ a social-
ness school? 
and work than here. From the Schubert and the Yale 
Repertory Theater, to the nearby (bike-accessible!) 
kayaking spots, New Haven is an ideal location 
for Harnmer. And as a community activist, it's also 
perfect for him to spread the gospel of cycling and 
. -
. 
his belief in democratic socialism. 

As we turn onto Crown Street, Hatnmer begins 
to chatter excitedly about his hopes for the new 
pedicab company. In addition to working morning 
and afternoon rush hours, and orchestrating pickups 
and drop-offs from the State Street train station, 
Hatnmer wants to ·start a service for the Crown 
Street club scene on weekends. Though he quickly 
adds that he's aware bicycles won't create world 
peace, it's impossible to ignore Hatnmer's ever-
present idealism, his hope that even a little bit of 
good, clean business on Crown might help diminish 
the drunken brawls that occur there. 

"I see bicycling like a lot of other things in 
society," he says, his eyes lighting up for a moment. 
"It should be available to everyone." 

The business Ha truner founded, called BEEEP! 
(Bicycle Education, Entrepreneurship and 
Enrichment Prograans) is the fruit of his idealism. 
The business's for-profit wing manages the pedicab 
rides. The nonprofit side hosts cycling tours for New 
Haven youth, sets up tandem rides for the blind, 
and runs an adaptive biking progra an that allows 
paraplegics to use their hands to bike. BEEEP! lets . ... . -. 
OCTOBER 2010 
Hammer dabble in his own egalitarian universe of 
equal-opportunity-bicycling. 

But theater, Hammer tells me, is the arena where 
he taps into his most extreme passions. He recalls 
one of the several· musical revues he has composed: 
• 
"The Touring Bicycle Repair Clinic Theater." The 
production toured vaudeville-style 
he and the 
. actors traveled from one town green to another, 
. bringing mechanics with them to fix the audience's 
bicycles while the actors performed. 

Hammer breaks into one of the songs 'from the 
show. The original composition, inspired by Pierre 
Lallement, who is often credited with inventing the 
bicycle in the 1860's, tells the story of a man who 
builds a flying bicycle that eventually soars over the 
English Channel. In Ha •nmer's plot line, the man 
tests the contraption by flying it around the New 
Haven Green. 

Harnmer sings: · 
"Though twas said could not be done by expert 
panels 
A bicycle jle,w oJer the English Channel. .. 
... SoJ if we take our cue from Leonardo 
Think about the future hard now 
Fight to win a place for bikes in the world of our . 
children 
Where its not a pain to take them on the train 
And bike lanes and bike paths separate us from the 
trollies 
And from the few automobiles remaining 
On the way weJll win a few 
And lose some too and when we do wlll know 
That weJre not throughJ the myopia of a few 
~ Wont keep us from our bicycle utopia 
Wont keep us from our bicycle utopiaJJ 

*** 

As we ride down Crown Street, I wonder if I can 
catch a glimpse of East Rock Park from the Green. 
I think of how Ha truner's moment of crisis is at the 
center of his idealism, how the realities of violence 
and crime and streets without bike lanes encroach 
on his utopian vision of the city he loves. 

From the top of East Rock, however, with the 
city stretching out in perfect miniature, you might 
imagine that a flying bicycle could sail over the spin~s 
of New Haven, uninhibited by gravity 
and that, if 
you fell, an urnbrella atop a bicycle helmet would be 
enough to help you glide safely to the ground . 
13 


**Title:  Duck and Cover**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

ate nee 
es. 
Always have. 
The goriest shoot-
'em-up movies and the grisliest 
burn-victim photos don't faze me, 
but I shudder at the mere thought 
of any · implement that pierces, 
pricks, rends, or tears. And the idea 
of people subjecting themselves 
to said implements willingly has 
always occupied a special place in 
the pantheon ofThings That Freak 
Me Ot.it. Back in fourth grade 
art 
class, 
documentary videos 
on Mrican scarification sent me 
staggering to the restroom; self-
injury presentations in high school 
filled 
my head with dizzying 
colored lights. The assembly · on 
genital mutilation my sophomore 
year 
forget it. 
I spent those 
forty-five minutes with my hands 
so firmly cupped on my eyes that I 
thought they might stick. 

When I . got a blood test last 
summer, I nearly fainted in the 
chair. And as I sat in the waiting 
rootn 
afterwards, 
white 
as 
a 
sh~et, munching feebly on a stale 
cupcake, some switch must have 
flipped in my brain: enough. 
I 
" 
h 
"b 
say, 
must 
ave, 
ecause a 
few weeks ago, out of a desire to 
face down my fear 
or perhaps 
14 
·' . 
. . . 
. '· .. 
just out of good old-fashioned 
masochism 
I plunged into the 
belly of the beast, a place where 
needles abound and voluntary 
pain is the order of the day, every 
day: a tattoo .parlor. Granted, I'm 
not talking about just any parlor; 
I'm talking ·abotit Excalibur Tattoo 
in Shelton, Conn., a place I knew 
was different as soon as I caught 
' 
sight of its ducks. 
· icole) stoic but los-
tries not to inch as 
_ uck leans in) care-
o 
eace ul concentra--
e 
ressive eatures) a 
era tsman setting to 
work ... 

Yes, that's right: In a foyer 
packed 
with 
bizarre 
objects 
jostling for attention: (medieval 
sword mounted on wall, slideshow 
of nipple piercings and tattooed 
. . . . . . 
private parts running on loop) 
; perhaps the most ~ye-catching 
is a bulky crate overflowing with 
squishy foarn ducks: Each duck's 
chest reads, "I GOT PRICKED @ 
EXCALIBUR." Every client who 
gets tattooed takes one home, and 
they seJ;Ve a double purpose: On 
the one hand, as keepsakes, and 
on the other, as yielding ·objects 
for those clients to squeeze with 
all their might as the store's owner, 
using a tiny machine powered by 
electromagnetic coils, drives a set 
of pins into their skin at a rate of 
120-140 penetrations per second. 

Most of these ducks, I'm told, end 
up decapitated. 

Most tattoo parlors don't have 
crates of duck toys,in their lobbies. 
But again, Excalibur is not your 
typical parlor. Mo,st tattoo parlors 
have racks of pre-designed images, 
or "flash," hanging in their main 
rooms; Excalibur offers only custom 
designs. Most tattoo parlors have 
dim heavy-metal· music leaking 
from the speakers in the corner; 
Excalibur has, depending on the 
day and mqod, a soundtrack . of 
old-timey jazz, or classic rock, 
or bagpipe -music. 

Most tattoo 
parlors have a , staff of cranky 
skater dudes trudging around with 
THE NEW.JOURNAL 

--- Page 15 ---

antisocial hair and rings ,, through 
their noses; Excalibur has only 
Charles "Duck'' Unitas. Duck 
is the owner and sole proprietor 
("Head chef, dishwasher, and all 
that," as he puts it), a gregarious 
middlc;!-aged man . with a vaguely 
avuncular grey beard, a passion 
for wildly-patterned short-sleeve 
button-downs, and an uncanny 
knack for putting his customers at 
ease. 

Duck recognizes, with a hint 
of pride, that he's not what you'd 
expect in a tattoo artist, and since 
I'm, without a · doubt, the opposite 
of the typical tat-parlor patron, 
we make a pretty nice pair. He's 
a born storyteller, and I spend 
hours listening to him spin out 
his personal history as he reclines 
in his adjustable tattooing chair, 
his cowboy-booted feet perched 
on a high stool, one arm playing 
with hJs earring, the other flapping 
about~_ .. expressively as his voice 
jumps-between registers. 

Duck, who says. he picked up 
crayons as a toddler and never put 
them down, is a lifelong artist, 
but he got into tattooing late. 
For most of his life, he thought 
only convicts and burnout~ · had 
tattoos. In high school, while the 
stoners who haunted the local auto 
shop were getting inked, Duck 
It's like a tickle and a 
sunburn at the. same 
time. 
was listening to B~ry Manilow 
and hanging out with his fellow 
"squares" 
those wayward souls 
not athletic eno.ugh to run with 
the jocks, nor intellectual enough 
to converse with the geeks, nor 
OcTOBER 2010 
. .... ~ 
chemically-inclined 
enough 
to 
actually doing it. He had no idea 
toke with the hippies. 
Du.ting 
how deep to push. Does that feel 
his four-year stint in the Navy, an 
about right, he asked? 
"Nah," 
organization famously ·· populated 
said his brother. "It doesn't hurt 
by tattooed sea dogs, Duck took · enough." 


How much does it hurt? 

In 
retrospect, that may have been 
the question that brought me to 
Excalibur. 

The question of pain 
the one 
that inevitably follows the image 
of toy ducks 
squeezed 
headless, 
the 
-
one every nervous customer 
asks himself on the threshold of 
Excalibur's doors 
is the persistent 
elephant in tattooing's proverbial 
room. Among tattoo artists and 
tattooees, there's little consensus 
on the answer. 

"It's like a tickle 
and a sunburn at the sa tne time," 
one of Duck's frequent customers 
tells me. (Then again, this is 
coming from a man who pierced 
his own lip with a sharpened nail 
while still in middle school.) "It 
just feels like a scratch," says 
another. On the other hand, one 
female tat-enthusiast writes in Self 
magazine that a couple of flowers 
on her left ankle hurt more than 
her Caesarean section. 

Duck 
tells me that he's seen an even 
wider spectrum of reactions in his 
15 



**Title: The Ritual of Pain**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 16 ---

chair. Some weep. Others drift · the actual getting. "The mind is 
off to · sleep. Still others enjoy it. 
very powerful," Duck says, "and 
The · subcutaneous vibrations of you'd be surprised what it can. and 
Duck's needle actually brought one 
can't do." 
female client to orgasm during the 
process 
with her boyfriend in the 
• 
· . every oznt o contact 
the sheets .with ain ul 
sensitivi 
I couldn't 
uncovered inch. 
. 
room .. (Apparently, said boyfriend 
was weirded out but totally into 
it). 
Several clients 
often the 
toughest-looking · 
guys 
have 
passed out in the chair. 
As I listen to Duck talk, there's 
little doubt in my mind that I'd fall 
into that last category. I tell him 
about my chronic squea rnishness, 
and rather than judge me for 
it, Duck nods knowingly. 
Our 
minds, he says, can't tell the 
difference between reality and 
fantasy on their own. It takes 
information from the five senses 
to confirm the distinction. 
So 
when the mind signals the body 
to generate tons of chemicals in 
response to, or anticipation of, 
something horrible, and then that 
horrible something really just feels 
like, say, a ticklish sunburn, those 
unused chemicals go 
haywire. 
That's when a tattooee passes out, 
or when I start to feellightheaded. 
Chemically speaking, imagining 
getting a tattoo can be worse than 
16 
It should come as no shock, 
then, that when I drive to Shelton 
one sunny Thursday morning to 
watch my first-ever tattooing, I 
grip the steering wheel a bit too 
tightly .. I breathe a little heavily as I 
. accompany Duck on his customary 
trip to t~e Dunkin' Qonuts down 
the street, where the employees 
~ 
know him so well that they often 
have his large coffee ready to go 
by the time he walks through 
the doors. Today, Duck makes a 
miniature performance of putting 
. . 
change in their tip cup, (shaking 
the cup in mock-indignation: 
"What's this?. It's empty! I'm just 
gonna have to fill it for ya!"). . 
At 11 a.m., a guy natned Ron 
with a build like a defensive tackle 
and arms sheathed in ink walks 
' 
through the front door of the shop. 
He and Duck joke like old.friends: 
Ron -worked at Excalibur a while 
back as a piercer and ~pprentice 
tattoo artist. He's here now to get 
some work on his arms finished 
before he ships off to Iraq in late 
Novembe,r, and he's brought his 
fiancee, a 19 year-old ballerina 
na tned Nicole. 
This is a special occasion: 
Ron and Nicole, the soon-
to-be-newlyweds, are getting 
matching puzzle-piece tattoos. 
· 
It's about Ron's millionth 
tattoo, but it's Nicole's first, 
and so Ron's dad Randy and 
their fa rnily friend Elaine 
show up a few minutes later to 
witness 
the 
important 
event. 
All the other folks in the room, 
excluding myself, have at least one 
of Duck's tattoos on their bodies, 
and they're here to see a loved one 
' join their ranks. 
As 
faanilial 
chatter fills 
room, Duck goes through his prep 
work. He sets a paper plate on the 
counter, smears it with a thin strip 
of Vaseline, a,nd sticks two tiny 
caps onto it. He fills these caps 
with ink, which he stores in rows 
ofbottles that look like transparent 
cafeteria ketchup containers 
one 
pure black, the other watered down 
for gray shading. Then, delivering 
a well-rehearsed speech, he shows 
Nicole her needle, removes it from 
its factory packaging, and slides it 
through a disposable plastic tube, 
which acts as a guide a1;1d a handle 
-
and attaches to the machine· itself. 
Each needle is actually a thin metal 
rod connected to a duster ·of one 
to twelve tiny pins 
more pins for 
a thicker stroke. The butt end of 
the rod attaches to a spring-loaded 
bar on the machine, which sits 
over a series of electromagnetic 
coils. A long black wire carries 
an 
electrical 
current 
from the power source to 
these coils, and 120 times per 
~econd, the electricity charges the 
magnets, the bar is pulled, and the 


--- Page 17 ---

needle enters the skin. 
Nicole has chosen to place the 
puzzle-piece on her foot 
she's 
used to going en pointe for ballet, 
and so assumes she has a high 
degree of pedal pain tolerance. 
Duck rubs her foot with a Speed 
Stick to provide a sticky coating for 
the stencil, then transfers the hand-
drawn design onto her skin. He 
can tell she's tense and he loosens 
her up by cracking a couple jokes. 
Ron's here to comfort her, so 
Nicole doesn't need too much 
loosening. I'll later see customers 
that walk into · Excalibur as if to 
· face the guillotine 
real bundles of 
nerves 
and watch Duck pull out 
a new tactic for each one. ''Are you 
nervous?" he'll ask, before putting 
on an agitated, nebbishy voice. 
"Well dbn't be nervous. You'll make 
me nervous, my hands will get all 
sweaty, the needle will slip ... " Or 
he'll spin a client around in the 
chair over and over again until she 
finally stops scrunching up her 
shoulders. Or he'll put a hand on 
a customer's back and say, ''Are you 
alright?" then raise his voice, look 
around the room, and repeat, ''Are , 
you alright?" then throw his arms · 
into dra rna tic full extension ·and 
mock-shout, as if on the deck of a 
sinking ship, "Is everybody alright?" 
His years of practice at clowning, 
maritime and otherwise, clearly 
pay off. At the craft of tattooing, 
Duck is a pro, but at the art of 
placating a nervous customer, he's 
an absolute virtuoso. 
No diversion tactic can take 
the anxious sting out of the next 
moment, though~ when he picks 
up the machine with a latex-gloved 
OCTOBER 2010 
hand and presses a pedal on the 
gathered up and concentrated in 
floor with the ball of his foot. The 
the tiny space where needle breaks 
needle lets off a sl?.arp buzz; like an 
through flesh. 
As the process 
arnplified bee. 
Nicole, stoic but 
goes on, her body stiffens and she 
losing color by the second, tries ·goes silent. Her fingers straighten 
not to flinch as . Duck leans in, . out and she places them over her 
carefully, firmly, a kind of peaceful 
mouth. Nicole is accessing what 
cqncentration 
transforming his · some would call ·a very primitive 
expressive feature.s, a craftsman 
experience: She's moving more 
setting to work... 
and more fully into a purely and 
This is where I get queasy. This 
urgently physical world. 
is where the sight of needle tearing 
up ·skin like sandpap~r tightens my 
grip on the latte Duck bought me .. 
This is where I see blood rising up . 
in little thin clouds moments after 
the needle passes, where I clench 
my leg muscles, as I learned to · do 
in those high school assemblies, 
and try to -think about the finer 
points of my recent computer-
programming lecture rather than 
the buzzing of the needle and the 
slow, gentle rending of the skin. 
Eventually the nausea passes. I 
take a deep breath and a good hard . 
look at the really very mild gore, 
and my mind finally falls into 
synch with my senses. And then I 
notice something interesting. 
As soon as the tattooing began, 
something 
changed. 
almost 
imperceptibly in the room. The 
banter now continues as before, 
· the radio still plays, the DVD 
screens still display a fish tank 
video Duck bought at Bed Bath 
& Beyond. But something about 
the quality of Nicole's presence in 
the space has shifted. 
Ron and 
Elaine talk to her as Duck works, 
and she responds, laughing at 
their jokes, quipping back at their 
digs. Yet she's distracted. A pat t 
of her isn't there. A part of her is 
rhythmic singing and drumming: 
The sensation of pain was drawn 
out and segmented, an end in itself. 
In Hawaii, tattoo artists colored 
the tips of women's tongues as part 
of a mourning ceremony for a dead 
chief just as the ink becarne a 
permanent memorial mark, so also 
the tongue-pricking accomplished 
a kind of corporeal mortification. 
When the art first 
reached 
America with the addition of the 
Tattooed Man to the freak show 
line-up, the grotesque allure of 
pain was central in its populist 
appeal: P.T. Barnum advertised 
his inunensely profitable freak 
Prince Constantine, a middle-
aged Grecian inked head to toe, 
as a white man captured by island 
savages 
and forcibly 
tattooed. 
Crowds flocked to Constantine's 
booth to hear lurid stories of 
agony and swelling as much as 


--- Page 18 ---

to admire any kind of beauty or . 
vvor~aJlship. . 
Margo 
DeMello's 
imposing 
Ency(lopedia. of Body Adornment--
perhaps the only encyclopedia 
of any kind with pictures of 
subdermal implants on its cover-
devotes a whole section, between 
"Pacific Northwest Indians" and 
"Penis Pierciog," to "Pain." Writes 
· DeMello, "Pain is seen as tool for 
-~ 
· self--rr~nsformation, . 
arid . . many 
body modification. practitioners · 
follow_ the 'no pain, no gain' motto 
in an effort to use pain in order to 
achieve gro~h." Tattooing's first 
and m.ost dedicated devotees in 
the modern Western world were 
a tough crowd 
men to whom 
overcoming 
physical 
hardship 
vvas an · attractive ·notion. 
Back 
then, even for decades after the 
binh .of ·the electric machine in 
1891, many artists poked by 
hand. A customer would descend 
into a cramped . shop somewhere 
in New York ·or Boston, a slimy 
den with sketches plastering the 
vvalls, . and sit · backwards in a 
chair while a grizzled geezer with 
cigarette in mouth made hundreds 
of tiny, inky incisions, pausing 
occasionally to mop the blood 
vvith a rag summoned up from a 
murky bucket. 
There are whole 
boo~ filled with pictures of early 
tattoo customers, many of them 
vvind-beaten sailors: not a lot of 
smiles to be found. 
Duck's studio, 
where 
every 
hand is gloved, every spray bottle 
pla5tic-baggied, and every needle 
formally goodbyed en route to the 
sharps container, is a far cry from 
the . abodes of Charlie Wagner, 
Professor Ted, or Lew-the-Jew. 
Du~k's rigorous safety speeches and 
goof}'.playacting ensure that getting 
"PRICKED @ EXCAI.IBUR" is 
18 
anything but an ordeal. But the 
pain is inescapable. And to try to 
escape it in the first place would 
be, in a way, cheating or at 
least missing out on a part of the 
experience. When you get a tattoo, 
"the memory of it gets locked into 
your emotional psyche," Duck said 
to me once. "Every time the needle 
hits, your mind is interlocked with 
the emotion." 
That's why .Duck doesn't like 
flash, and why he refuses to tattoo 
customers with designs that are 
just plain stupid· ·(although he 
made one generous exception for 
a young gentleman who wanted 
"lOOo/o U.S. PRIME.BEEF" across 
et she j distracted. 
art o · her isn't there. 
art o her is 
concentrated in the 
s the rocess goes on) 
his buttocks). When a figure is 
etched into your back or your 
ankle or your arm, when you can 
literally feel its every contour being 
imprinted on your person, it takes 
on a heightened significance. 
Randy, Ron's dad, has a stunning 
gorilla-head tattoo spanning his 
formidable bicep. Duck designed 
it. Multiple psychic readings have 
identified the gorilla as Randy's 
power animal, a 
fact further 
attested by a second Duck-made 
tattoo on his calf, showing his 
own screa rning face merging, like 
the Batman villain Two-Face, with 
that of the ape. Whether or not the 
silverback and its accompanying 
symbolism had any real import 
in Randy's life before the tattoo is 
irrelevant: Once he's felt each hair 
and muscle pricked into his arm, 
that ape acquires a primal meaning . 
One of the many images on 
Ron's labyrinthine ink-cratnmed 
arm is a Calvin and Hobbes 
design in memory of Elaine's son, 
a close friend who died young . 
Ron wouldn't have wanted that 
particular tattoo harmlessly stuck 
on his body; as with the tongue-
mutilating Hawaiian mourners, 
. -
suffering-
gives 
physical . shape 
to mental anguish: The needle 
makes . intangible pain concrete, 
engraving it on flesh, claiming and 
commemorating tt. 
I learn about these two men's 
tattoos while Duck is still at work 
on Nicole's foot. And by the time 
the completed· puzzle piece sits 
on her skin atop an angry cloud 
of swelling, and tiny red drops 
· begin to ooze around its edges 
like condensation, I don't feel the 
lightheadedness that I know I 
should be feeling. That is, I don't 
feel it until Ron, leaning in gently 
to take a look, suddenly slaps 
the finished design hard. Nicole 
jolts up and tries to hit him as he 
runs away, and the whole room 
laughs (except for one horrified 
Yale student who nearly spills the 
remainder of his latte). Ron says 
he did it to "set the ink," but Duck 
tells me that he's really carrying on 
a hallowed tradition: Whenever 
someone gets his or her first tattoo, 
someone else in the room who's 
already been through the process 
offers a little mild abuse to the 
-tender area. Well, not always mild: 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
Ron claims that ·for his own first 
tattoo in Duck's studio, a whole 
host 
of 
people 
employees, 
• 
friends, passers-by 
were invited 
one by one to attack his raw arm. 
"They were beating me with two-
by-fours," he jokes. 
Finally, 
Nicole 
is 
finished. 
''Alrighty 
m'dear," 
says 
Duck, 
lowering the pneumatic chair. 
"Let's bring you back down to 
earth." 


Just before I met Duck, I'd been 
thinking in the most distant, 
hypothetical way 
about getting 
a tattoo mysel£ 
Before then I'd 
never considered doing so any 
more than I'd considered throwing 
myself at a brick wall or going 
at my leg with a staple gun. But 
some little thrill-hungry imp over 
my shoulder got the notion that 
submitting to the needle would 
. make a perfect finale for this 
piece: Squea rnish young academic 
finally gets inked! 
I brought up 
the idea on a fa•nily reunion· in 
Virginia, and was met with a earful 
of disapproval. "Oooh," said my 
mother, making a face and trying 
to think of a constructive way to 
fra•ne her extrel!le disgust with the 
suggestion. My sister chimed in: 
"If you want to see what it feels 
like, I can just stick a pin in your 
arm." Immediately I started feeling 
woozy and decided there was no 
way I could man up enough to do 
it 
the issue became moot. 
But 
then, 
watching 
Duck 
complete 
a 
progression 
increasingly 
involved 
tattoos 
(including one, in neon green; on a 
particularly copious bleeder whose 
girlfriend kept opening his ink-
and-blood-soaked paper 
towels 
and asking him to read them like 
Rorschach blots), I built up a level 
of squeam-tolerance I'd 
never 
thought possible. 
I floated the 
idea to my mother one more time 
during a late-night phone call. She 
raised a point I'd largely forgotten 
in all my focus on the gory aspects: 
Whatever design I got would be 
there forever. 


I tried to think of something that 
I'd want engraved permanently 
onto my body . 
A Celtic cross? No, I'd been to 
church twice in as many years, 
and I consider myself Irish only 
for about a one-hour period every 
Saint Patrick's Day. 
Something writerly? 
Pen and 
ink or some such? Naw, I haven't 
really decided on a career, and how 
stupid would that crap look in law 
school? 
A pretty tree or a bird would look 
nice, but not nice enough to justify 
the sidelong glances from potential 
bosses and mothers-in-law . 
That night, I found myself 
tossing and turning in bed, my 
squeamishness back in full force. 
My bare skin felt electric and I 
registered every point of contact 
between my body and the -sheets 
with painful sensitivity. I couldn't 
stop imagining needles gliding 
over every uncovered inch. 
Before I finally drifted off, I 
had a wild tho'ught ~ . , Maybe ~y 
rejuvenated fear wasn't about sharp 
objects, wasn't connected tofragile 
skin and oozing. drops ~( blood. 
Maybe 1t was a more fund'ament;u 
worry, a writer's fear: the sense that 
given pen and ink and· the most 
precious canvas of all~ I would 
have nothing· wort~ while ·to say. 
Nothing for which fd 'be ready to 
hurt. 


**Page number(s): 21**

is outstandingly 
handsome and robust; very 
masculine. 

This is The American ·Heritage 
Dictionarys 
exa•I1ple 
sentence 
for the word "masculine." It's the 
kind of s.entence that's intended 
to elucidate, to enlighten. It's the 
kind your high school .English 
teacher makes you write on tests to 
prove, beyond a shadow of doubt, 
that you know the meaning of the 
word. Masculine equals handsome 
plus robust~ Outstandingly so. 
: Does 
America 
really 
define 
masculinity this way? Does Yale? 
_Every Wednesday afternoon, in . 
a well-lit basement classroom in 
Rosenkranz Hall, 20 Yalies and a 
professor, Graeme Reid, attempt . 
to answer these questions and 
more. The course, offered by the 
Women's, Gender, and Sexuality 
Studies 
department, 
"Men, 
Manhood, and Masculinity." The 
13 women and seven men enrolled 
:were · chosen from · some . 100 
applicants. 

They have their wo.rk cut out 
for them. A national conversation 
has emerged, one that suggests 
masculinity is in . crisis. 
The 
Atlantic ran a cover _story . called 
"The End of Men," citing the new 
female majority in the workforce 
as a defining shift. In October~ 
Newsweek featured a piece called 
" 
· UP! The Traditional Male 
is an Endangered Species. It's Time 
to Re~hink Masculinity." And now, 
Yale is offering a course on what it 
nieans to be a man. 
Max Saltarelli '13 saw the course 
description and thought, "Men, 
manhood, 
masculinity? 
That 
sOunds really cool! I'm a male! So 
maybe I would_ know a thing or 
two about men!" 
His interest in the course 
is personal. Saltarelli came out · For his part, John Yi '12 wanted 
as gay about a mo~th into · his 
to take something different. He 
freshman 'year. His parents, he says, 
had taken 24 credits in his first two 
are each from different generat_ions 
(his father is .older); and they had 
different ideas about raising a 
son. His mother· was "loving and 
sheltering," indulging his whims-
like when he just had to have that 
pair of jelly shoes-in preschool, or 
when he wanted to be the. Pink 
Power Ranger for Halloween. 
His father "envisioned it in a 
more '50s sort of way'' than his 
mothec He wanted his son to go · 
fishing, or throw a football around, 
or "get really into basketball." 
L?-ughing, Saltarelli tells ·me ·that 
he didn't .quite fit the mold. His 
years, all in the math, economics, 
and music departments. When 
he· saw "Men, Manhood, and 
Masculinity" in the Blue Book, 
he thought, "Those are the sarne 
questions that I think about every 
d 
ay. 
Yi lights up when he talks 
about his three sisters 
one's his 
twin, and the others are a couple 
of years older. They "happen to 
be the most beautiful, talented, 
amazing, 
empowenng women 
he knows. ("One of them went to 
Wellesley 
she like, wanted to go 
to Wellesley.") Growing up, John 
and his sisters were inseparable. 
They took gymnastics and dance 
classes together 
he even joined 
them at the salon for haircuts. 
They were best friends. He says 
he never realized that "there really 
is a power dyna 1nic between boys 
and girls" in much of society. His 
mother owned a small business; 
she was the breadwinner and head 
of the household. "It was always 
'Ma•na Yi and her four kids,"' he 
chuckles. When Yi ca 1ne to Yale, 
the combination of living with 
m·en for the first time and coming 
out as gay made him ask, "Holy 
s--t, what is masculinity? What 
does it mean to be a guy?" 
childhood was marked by a series 
of botched attempts at Little · 
League. Then there was "a brief 
basketball thing. 
Literally one 
practice." MaX. puts on a gruff voice 
to imitate his father.- "He should 
be outside playing football!" The 
imitation is lighthearted, . but he 
does remember feeling "kind of 
sad." Did his mother care that he 
didn't play sports? "Not at all." 
Unlike some of his classmates, 
Saltarelli wants to be there not 
because he has thought so much 
about 
the 
issues 
course 
addresses 
but rather he feels he 
hasn't thought about them enough. 
In any case, he "semi-took it on a 
whim." 
As the students of WGSS 304 
have discovered, the answer varies 
from place to place and across 
conununities. Harry VanDusen 
~ 14 is from Lynnfield, Mass., a · 
small town settled in 1638. He 
describes the idea of masculinity 
there as "traditional." Back home, 
a man was expected to be "tough, 
a tough guy" 
stoic, physically 
and emotionally. When I ask if 
there were any openly gay rnen in



**Title: Masculinity at Yale**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
his community, he rocks forward · 
and almost spits out his drink. 
"Oh God no. Oh no. That was not 
good. It was very traditional. in 
that way, like that's not acceptable. 
It's predominantly white, Catholic, 
Italian. I'm none of those things." 
He pauses. "Well, I'm white." 
VanDusen is straight, but he's 
into the arts and musical theater, 
always encouraged him to be 
whom he wanted to be, "without 
really any expectations for what 
that was." Today Ramirez, who is 
. 
gay, finds that "femininity, or the 
idea of what it is to be feminine, 
is definitely more available for 
me 
just because it's all I've been 
• 
around, for the most part." 
which 
made him unusual in 
For the most part. Ra rnirez went 
Lynnfield. "It was like, 'You should . to an all-boys Catholic school in 
be playing a sport."' But VanDusen . ~hicago. Though he's not religious 
didn't feel the need to conform 
now, he and his highschool friends 
"I am what I a rn" 
and, with the 
did go through a "spiritual" phase, 
support of his parents (he calls his 
in which "religion and being a good 
mother "strong" and his father 
person were just really important 
"chivalrous"); he did what he 
and what we were -about." Still, 
wanted and gave it his all. Now he 
he 
had 
always 
noticed 
that 
performs, swims, and wants to be 
"[Catholicism] 
revolves 
around 
a doctor. VanDusen, who didn't 
men being in power." Unlike his 
conform to his town's masculine 
Yale friends, Rarnirez's high school 
ideal, . wanted to learn how other 
friends were mostly athletes. And 
communities 
interpreted 
the 
at his parochial school, there was 
concept of masculinity. 
a general compulsion to, "act hard 
Like 
VanDusen, 
Emmanuel 
and tough." · 
Ramirez '12 · says he didn't feel 
That compulsion is everywhere 
parental pressure to become any in the virtual world of "Halo," the 
specific ·type of boy. He grew up 
online shoot-em-up gan1e that is 
as an only child; living with his 
a favorite of George .Norberg '11. 
mother and grandmother, who About 98 percent of Halo players, 
Enrrnanuel Rantirez '12 
Max Saltarelli '13 
22 
Norberg reports, are men aged 16 
to 25. There may be some "chill" 
guys with whom to become friends 
with. Two of his online friends 
just started a business together, 
but there's a lot of testosterone. "If 
you win," he writes in an e:-mail, 
"you feel like you've proven your 
masculinity. If you lose, you feel 
like you aren't good enough." 
If you kill an enemy, there's a 
sexualized "tea-bagging" custom in 
which you "crouch on [the corpse] 
repeatedly." A lot of the players, he 
adds, call each other "gay" or "fag," 
Norberg, who is straight, sees this 
belittling as an attempt to affirm 
their own masculinity. ~ 
' 
In addition to video games, 
Norberg likes public health and 
sex. He is on the board of directors 
of Sex Week at Yale. He also has a 
radio show on 
C called "Sex 
Talk," the purpose of which is self-
explanatory. But because there's no 
such thing as too much sex talk, 
Norberg signed up for this class. 
For Jake Conway '11, the class 
also provides talk 
but talk will 
only get him so far: "The class 
isn't going to answer my internal 
George Norberg '11 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


<br>

--- Page 23 ---

John Yi '12 
1 '' I ' 
h 
strugg e. 
t s not a course t at 
"teaches you how to live or be a 
man." Jake is the founder of "Q," 
a magazine slated to launch next 
month that will explore LG BTQ-
related issues, and he_ answers my 
questions as if he's said it all before. 
''As a ,gay male," he says, "you come 
up against a tension between your 
sexual identity and your gender 
on a daily basis. It's something 
that's inevitable because of the 
historic association between gay 
men and effeminacy." Jake is far 
from effeminate.· He has a more 
forceful presence on- the phone 
than most people have in person. 
He's big and tall, he works out a 
lot, and he played sports in high 
school. At gay bars, people ask him 
if he's straight. He's "one hundred 
"h 
percent gay, 
e reassures me. 
There's no single aspect of his 
romantic, home, or academic life 
that has defined Jake's experience 
of masculinity. "It's not like I can 
say, 'Oh, my dad told me that this 
was the way I had to be a man, ~d 
he told me once, and that's how I 
a rn. "' His experiences at home and 
at Yale have had an impact, but "it's 
not like one thing did the trick." 
OCTOBER 2010 
Jake Conway '11 
More broadly, Conway explains 
that there's no single trope of 
masculinity 
at 
Yale 
"there's 
no such thing as a 'Yale Man."' 
Although definitions of masculinity 
vary widely among a diverse 
student body, Conway still notices 
an ideal of hegemonic, white, 
and heterosexual masculinity that 
affects "all of our social inter-
relationships and how we perceive 
ourselves." Yale's atmosphere, he 
comments, remains "elitist and 
takes as its sort of archetype the 
white elite." Conway says he agrees 
with Judith Butler, a 20th century-
American 
philosopher 
who 
posited that gender 
archetypal or 
~ 
otherwise 
is "performative." 
VanDusen has certainly noticed a 
certain performance of masculinity 
at Yale. A freshman, he has spent 
the last six weeks meeting and 
greeting. He says many guys he 
meets "will totally let you know 
what they're good at, what they're 
great at, what they've accomplished, 
in a much more forward way than 
I'm used to." People didn't brag so 
much where he's from. Here, "it's 
very in your face 
the kind of 
backhanded, 'Yeah, it's difficult for 
Harry Vandusen '14 
me to be in this French class 'cause, 
you know, I speak so fluently and 
a lot of them can't converse with 
me.'" He sounds fed up. "These are 
conversations I've actually had." 
He thinks the bragging is an 
expression of masculinity. And he 
also seems to think it's a form of 
overcompensation: "The people 
who don't talk about what they've 
done. Once you pry a little, they're 
the most impressive ones." This 
view is aligned with what VanDusen 
identifies as a theme of the course: 
if you fall short with respect to one 
aspect of your masculinity, you 
tend to "exert it by showing off 
other accomplishments." 
At Saltarelli's high school, in 
Orange County, Calif. ("notable 
for its 
many sex 
scandals!"), 
masculinity is another "ridiculous 
performance" 
what 
Saltarelli 
calls the "performative bro thing." . 
The popular guys were "really 
athletic, kind of outrageous and 
funny, kind of douchey." Like 
VanDusen, when Saltarelli carne to 
Yale, he was able to realize about 
his hometown that "it's not like 
that everywhere." But most places 
he goes, Saltarelli sti 1 notices a 
23 



--- Page 24 ---

quality of performance in the 
actions of males. 
And at Yale, there are a lot of 
performers. When I ask him to 
define 
masculinity within 
his 
· improv comedy group, the Viola 
Question, Saltarelli describes a 
quality of affability: "the ability to 
behave respectfully and amicably 
with all kinds of people." Funnily 
enough, this kind of masculinity 
doesn't seem gender-specific at all. 
Ramirez, also active in the theater 
community, sees masculinity in his 
crowd as a way of "acting, and 
carrying yourself" 
either showy 
or nonchalant. "The more laid-
back ones," like Ramirez, hang out 
backstage. "The more out-there 
people," he says, "are the ones who 
perform. There are a lot of really 
out-there people who do really 
crazy things. Everyone loves it. A 
lot of them are my friends. They're 
just silly, all the time." Is that really 
an 
expression . of . masculinity? 
"v " h 
"D fi . 1 " 
· .tes, 
e says. 
e nlte y. 
Rarnirez has observed that 
his classmates also display their 
masculinity in different ways: 
· "There are guys that are really 
flarnboyant and others that are 
extremely chill, really laid-back, 
just like, 'I don't care."' 
"Sometimes," Ramirez says, "I 
just want to be laid back, and not 
really care about what I look like." 
Today he's wearing corduroys, 
checkered Vans, and a pullover· 
hoodie. It's chill. But, he says, 
"sometimes I care a lot, and I'll 
go crazy and dress up." He pauses. 
"Sometimes I just feel like dressing 
" 
up. 
*** 
When Reid walks into class one 
Wednesday, everyone is already 
24 
seated, unpacked, and chatting. 
By the time he gets to the front 
of the room, the class' attention is 
on him. Reid is small, with silver 
hair and a tastefully trimmed 
beard. This afternoon, he's wearing 
black, pinstriped pants, a light 
blue button down with a few 
buttons open, and dress shoes. He 
enunciates every word and waves 
his hands as he speaks. The accent 
of his English is falniliar, but I 
can't put my finger on the place of 
origin. Not the UK, not Australia ... 
South Mrica. Growing up there, 
Reid explains, he faced "fairly rigid 
ideas about masculinity," and had 
. the experience of "completely not 
fitting within those norms." After 
getting his doctorate in queer 
studies from . the University of 
Amsterda 1 n, Reid returned to South 
Mrica to conduct field research. 
There, in the rural areas where he 
researched queer identities, "people 
think of themselves as ladies or 
gents," regardless of their biological 
gender . . Gay .men are like ladies, 
"gay l-adies" 
so hyper-masculine 
straight men, who often have wives 
or girlfriends, have sex with them 
and "don't see it as contradictory to 
their heterosexual identity." These 
kinds of discoveries made Reid 
think about not only what it means 
to be gay or straight, but also what 
it means simply to be a man. 
Maleness as a scholarly subject 
is fairly novel. Reid's course is 
the only one about masculinity 
in his department, which began 
as Women's Studies, and then 
broadened, 
becoming 
first 
Women's and Gender Studies 
and finally Women's, Gender, and 
Sexuality Studies, reflecting the 
evolution of the field. Women's 
studies departments at universities 
were born from the feminist 
movement, in which masculinity 
was thought of as "the problem 
and the enemy," Reid says. But as 
he writes in the syllabus, multiple 
factors, including the "sociological 
enquiry into the changing nature of 
work and farnily," have yielded an 
intense new focus on the changing 
roles of men and masculinity in 
SOCiety. 
"If you fall short with 
respect to one 
aspect of your . 
masculinity, you tend 
•• 
· to "exert it by · -~ 
showin.g off other 
accomplishments.'' 
There's 
no doubt that old-
fashioned 
is 
still 
kicking. At the beginning of 
Wednesday's class, Yi 
gives a 
presentation 
on Tucker 
Max, 
author of "I Hope They Serve Beer 
in Hell." 
"Tucker Max," he reads from 
his opening slide "Hegemonic 
Male or General Douchebag? Or 
both?" (Yi likes to think Max is 
a combination of the two.) At 
first, the class is a rnused as Yi lists 
notable events in the life of the 
self-described "raging dickhead," 
who "gets excessively drunk at 
inappropriate times" and "sleeps 
with more women than is safe or 
reasonable." By the time Yi reveals 
that, in 2009, American popular·· 
vote placed Tucker Max 24th of 
Tjme Magazine's candidates for 
. the world's 100 Most Important



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•


**Author: Susannah Shattuck**



**Gangs, drugs, violence, and the youth of New Haven.**
**Author: Ali Weiner**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Gangs, drugs, violence, and 
the youth of New Haven. 
by Ali Weiner 
• 
Vanessa 
West1, 
a 
heavyset 
IS-year-old from New Haven's 
Newhallville neighborhood, has 
.. strings woven into her black 
cornrows. The strings are red, the 
color of the Bloods, a national drug 
gang with roots in California and 
members all over the country . 
including many in New Haven. 
West wears a red and black plastic 
belt, a red necklace, and two plastic 
buttons on her shirt, each with a 
picture of a young black man, and 
the words "Rest in Peace" in neon 
letters. West has lost six friends to 
gang-related shootings in the past 
1. Last names of minors in this 
article have been changed to protect 
their identities. 
28 
two. years. Despite 
or perhaps 
because of this, West is a Blood. 
The 
New 
Haven 
Police 
Department sits on Union Avenue 
in the Hill, the neighborhood that 
forms the city's southern border. 
It is surrounded on three sides, by 
the Church Street South public 
housing projects, a train station, 
and highways that lead out of the 
city. The projects used to be like 
fortresses for gangs, says Det. Ricky 
Pelletier. "Once you were inside, 
you could hide in there pretty 
easy. With the close proximity to 
routes of travel out of the city ... 
"Well, certain places in the city are 
inherently good for dealing drugs," 
h 
"'VT ' 
f h 
" 
e says. 
were 1n one o t em. 
Inside 
the 
Hill, 
area 
-
• ' . 
. 
immediately around the police 
station is known as the Jungle. It 
was once run by the Latin Kings, a 
national gang of mostly Latinos and 
Italians that began in the 1940s. 


<br>

But by the late 1980s, a gang called 
the Jungle Boys, who lived in the 
Church Street South projects, had 
taken hold. "We'd come out for 
lineup in the morning and hear 
gunshots," Pelletier remembers. 
Pelletier 
has 
always 
been 
fascinated 
with 
Haven's 
gangs. He is a tough guy and looks 
it. He is hefty, well over 6 feet 
tall, with a blonde buzz cut and a 
small, thick blonde mustache that 
would make him look menacing 
if he didn't chuckle so often. He 
joined the NHPD in 1988. After



working briefly in patrol ("Not 
' 
enough action") and . the firearms 
and narcotics units ("I was dealing 
with the gangs on a regular basis"), 
he became the NHPD's de facto 
expert on the city's gangs and 
neighborhood rivalries. · 
Last year, the department finally 
created an official Gang Intelligence 
Unit, a collaboration among city, 
state, and federal police, as well as 
national government agencies such 
as the Drug Enforcement Agency 
(DEA), the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation (FBI), and the Bureau 
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and 
Explosives (ATF). The new unit is 
part of NHPD's attempt to keep 
abreast . of the changing nature of 
gang violence in the city; Pelletier 
and his partner, Det. Mike Novella, 
were put in charge. 



They are aided in large part by 
their leadership 
the city's new 
chief o£ police Frank Limon is a 30-
year veteran of the Chicago police 
force, in which he supervised 600 
people in the Organized Crime 
Unit's efforts to combat guns, 
drugs, and gangs in that city. 
Within days of taking office 
this past April, Limon _rolled but 
Operation Corridor, an effort to 
flood the city's most gang-ridden 
streets with enough police officers 
to stop the gunfire. But twenty 
years of gang 'history, and a city 
divided by rivalries that may run 
deeper than the gangs themselves, 
means that he has his work cut out 
for him. 



Looking Ba~k 
Outside the five or so square 
blocks that make l!P Yale's central 
ca rnpus, New Haven is divided 
into rival neighborhoods that date 
OCTOBER 2010 
back half a century. 
the most part, it's the same story all 
North 
of 
university, 
over town. Kids just have different 
says Pelletier, the Newhallville 
colored bandanas ("flags") hanging 
neighborhood 
known 
as 
"the . out their back pockets to show 
Ville," 
is 
effectively 
run 
by . where they're from and who they're 
Bloods and Crips, two of the 
fighting for. 
most infa rnous national gangs. 



In the past year or so, it has also 
become home to R2, also known 
as R2 BWE (Beef with Everybody) 
Black Flag, a gang that was linked 
to a spate of recent homicides 
and assaults. On the eastern edge 
of the city, a housing complex 
known as "the Island" overlooks 
the Quinnipiac River. It's the turf 
of the Island Brothers, a gang 
whose glory days, says Pelletier, 
have come and gone but who are 
still very much a presence on the 
streets near the river. Northwest of 
Yale's ca rnpus, the Tribe is nestled 
between the Ville to the north and 
the Tre to the west. The Tre is home 
to Kensington Street International 
(KSI), one of the tougher gangs 
from New Haven's worst days. 
Recently the Tre has also become 
home to Bloods and Crips from 
New York and New Jersey who 
have moved in to recruit new 
members. 
Almost everyone 
fighting 
for something. In the late 1980s, 
when Pelletier joined _the NHPD, 
ranked 
arnong 
Ca rnden, N.J. and South Central 
Los Angeles as the most dangerous 
cities in America. "Traditionally, 
most of the crime was in the 
housing 
projects," 
explains. "When I carne on in '88, 
it was the Island Brothers, KSI, 
the Latin Kings, and the Jungle 
Boys that were running the show. 
The daily ghts and .. 
shootings in the city 
were over drug tur ~· i 
you werent a ungle 
Boy and you tried to 
sell drugs around the 
ungle~ you were asking 
to get shot. 



Each neighborhood has its own 
flavor and its own rivalries, but for 
They were mostly based out of the 
projects." During the late 1980s 
and early 1990s, drugs and the 
gangs that formed to deal them 
exploded on the city streets. · 
Up · until about 
1995, 
housing projects were insulated 
crime dens, a labyrinthine network 
of apattments within apartments, 
which could be taken over by a 
particular gang and used as a home 
base to stash guns and sell drugs. 
Gang members from other cities:-
the Latin Kings of New York, the 
Crips from Chicago-could drive 
into the city and disappear into 
their respective fortresses to drop 
off drugs or hide from police. The 
daily fights and shootings in the 
city were over drug turf; if you 
weren't a Jungle Boy and you tried 
to sell drugs around the Jungle, 
you were asking to get shot. 
When 
projects 
were 
redeveloped in the mid-1990s, 
they were remodeled into regular 
apartment-style buildings, getting 
rid of the rooms-within-rooms-
within-rooms · layout that had 
29 



previously made them such good · generation of kids who had grown 
safe havens. This, along with a 
up watching every adult they knew 
series of major investigations by fight to represent 
"rep" 
their 
police and federal ageq.ts; forced 
gang on the streets. The city's kids 
drug gangs to other parts of New took the lesson to heart: you fight 
Haven. 
for what you stand for. And, in 
Corridor, 
from 
which 
the temporary absence of strong 
Operation 
Corridor 
takes 
its 
gangs to stand for, they stood for 
name, became New Haven's next the only thing they had left: their 
hot spot. Known on city maps as 
neighborhoods. 
Orchard Street, it cuts diagonally 
A gang, says Pelletier, doesn't need 
across the western part of the city, . to be national or even particularly 
through the Tre and the Tribe. It's . powerful. 
Legally, 
gangs 
are 
the center of crime in New Haven, 
defined as three or .more people 
the scene of most drug sales and 
involved in ·ongoing criminal 
shootings since the mid 1990s. 
activity with a common sign or 
Along 
Corridor, . different 
symbol. Hood alliances often show 
gangs claim houses, but in recent 
similar attributes: shootings in the 
years, there's been less fighting over 
which gang sells drugs on which 
corner. "The kids got smart that we 
were using undercover cops to bust 
them on street corners," Pelleteir 
explains. "So instead of standing 
on a corner and continuing to be 
a target, they would give a client 
a phone number and say, 'Call me 
up, I'll get you . what you need.' 
They'd set a meeting spot, drive to 
a dark place to make the exchange." 
Because of this, it is now easier, and 
arguably safer, than ever before to 
deal drugs in New Haven without 
getting arrested or jumped by a 
competing dealer. There's no need 
to fight for tur£ 
So why are kids still shooting 
each other? 
Just kid stniP. 
The need for allegiance dies 
hard. When the national gangs of 
the 1980s and 1990s were shut 
down by the New Haven Gang 
Task Force, many of the major 
adult players in New Haven's crime 
scene were taken off the streets and 
incarcerated. They left behind a 
30 
Shaun~ the Blood who 
shot his Crip brother; 
must have· been ollowing 
Rule #20: 'Wo playing 
with the enem~ meaning 
• z you see an enemy, tear 
his -ace o . '' 



na rne of the hood, hand signals or 
colors to signify membership. For 
exa rnple, members of the Crips 
and residents of the Ville both 
identify themselves with the color 
blue. 
Kathleen 
Edwards, 
supervisory 
prosecutor of the 
Juvenile Court in New Haven, 
says that just a few years ago, 
kids repped neighborhoods more 
often than they repped gangs. The 
juvenile offenders she prosecuted 
told her they identified themselves 
by where they lived in the city-
the Tre, the Tribe, the Ville. "The 
kids give themselves na rnes, maybe 
have a handshake or a symbol 
they identify with, but they're 
mostly 
identifying 
neighborhood," she explains. 
Now, the city's gangs are gaining 
national affiliation yet again. Over 
the last 18 months or so, says 
Pelletier, small sets with national 
reach have exploded across the 
city. "We do still have smaller 
street gangs, but everyone 
even 
those 
have taken on national 
affiliations." Most common are 
the sets of the Bloods, Crips, Latin 
Kings, and the Black Gangster 
Disciples, a national group with a 
heavy presence in Chicago. 
In addition to the shift from 
street-corner 
drug 
deals 
to 
Orchard 
Street 
rendezvous, 
Pelletier ~redits technelogy with 
the change. "Before, kids might 
have wanted to call themselves the 
Bloods or the Crips but not really . 
understood 
what 
that 
meant. 
Now, they're picking up on the 
philosophy," says Pelletier. "We 
see it in interviews with kids. They 
can use the Internet, can Google 
the gang's philosophy, can connect 
with.an actual Grape Street Crip or 
a Blood from California. It's easier 
to pick up." 
In concert with these means of 
technological enlistment, 
adult 
Bloods from New York and New 
Jersey have moved to the Ville and 
the Tre, and are actively recruiting 
young new members. 
New Recruits 
West is one of the gang's new 
charges. She calls herself a "five-
fifty," just half a Blood. "We called 
five-fifties 'cause five is the five-
pointed star [a national Blood 
symbol], and fifty 'cause we only 
half down," she explains. Half 
down? "It means you rock wit' all 
Bloods and not Crips, but if your 
Bloods gonna jump somebody, or 



**Title: The Rules**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
~ New Haven map marked with gang territory. 
they gettin' ready to bang [fight], 
Blood. "If you a girl, you can be 
14 brothers and 14 sisters," she 
you can decide either 'yeah, I'm 
a Blood if you wanna be a Blood," 
says. (Volunteers at Your Place, an 
down,' or 'nah, I'll pass."' 
she says. "The only reason why I'm 
afterschool youth center founded 
Jasmine Williarns, a 12-year-old 
a Blood is 'cause every boy I know by Jane Jeuland DIY. '09, confirm 
from the Hill, explains that the 
is a Blood." 
Vanessa's claim.) "Half my brothers 
difference between Bloods and 
West corrects her. "You ain't a 
is Bloods, and the other half is 
Crips is especially important for 
Blood, you a five-fifty too." Jasmine 
Crips. All they do is fight all the 
girls. To become a Crip, she says, a 
acknowledges her overstatement 
titne 
we gotta rotate in and out 
girl has to "be sexualed" with every 
it's true, she's only half a Blood. 
of foster care and my mommy's 
man in the local group, or "set." 
"Well, I wasn't gonna even be a 
house, so my siblings ain't all in the 
It's not rape, the girls insist; it's just 
five-fifty, but I started askin' all the 
house together at the sarne time. 
what you do to get in. Only boys 
boys on my street: Are you a Blood 
Yesterday, Shaun 
he's a Blood-
must go through initiation rites 
or a Crip?" she says. "Every single shot Day Day, 'cause Day Day's a 
to be a Blood, Williarns explains. . boy I roll with is a Blood or a five-
Crip and looked at him the wrong 
They're 
"banged" 
beaten 
by 
fifty. So I wanted to be a five-fifty, 
way. Shaun missed, but we all had 
other Bloods for a minute and 
because it means I can rock with to get out the house." 
thirty-one seconds. (The ntnnbers 
them whenever I want, and they 
zero, three, and one are significant 
protect me." 
to the Bloods, where the telephone 
Protection is important in the 
area code is 31 0.) -Girls, explains 
Hill, 
a 
neighborhood 
where, 
Willia rns, do not have to go 
Willia rns says, there aren't many 
through initiation rites to be a 
Crips besides her brothers. "I got 


OCTOBER 2010 
31 


Shaun, 
26, 
was 
likely just 
following the .rules. In a recent 
raid carried out by Pelletier and 
Novella, NHPD seized two Blood 
handbooks, used to indoctrinate 
new members of the gang. The 
documents 
include 
an 
oath 
("Blooding is about respecting 
your farnily and doing what you 
could"), a prayer ("Will I ride, Yes 
. I'll ride, cause I bang with pride, 
.·.when I die bury me 5 feet up with 
red on me"), a pledge ("I pledge 
allegiance to he Blood flag and all 
my mill as in this nation"), and the 
rules of Stoney Face Milia, a subset 
of Bloods from the Ville. The rules 
form a code of conduct. Pelletier 
and the five-fifties say new Bloods 
have to memorize everything in the 
handbook so that they understand 
the philosophy of the fa rnily they 
are joining. The ·consequences 
of breaking the rules is stated 
dearly; "Rule No. 21: All 20 rules 
must Be enforced and followed, if 
caught Breaking any of these rules, 
you will Be terminated on site." 
· · Terminated, explains Williarns, 
means shot. 
Some of the rules seem practical: 
"Rule No. 4: No nastiness, 
meaning shower at least once a 
d " 
ay. 
"Rule 
No. 
2: 
No 
meaning no backbiting 
divi~e and conquer.'' 
treason, 
and no 
"Rule No. 9: Exercise, meaning 
work out your body, mind, and 
soul spiritually." 
Some are more threatening. 
Shaun, the Blood who shot his Crip 
brother, must have been following 
Rule No. 20: "No playing with 
the enemy, meaning if you see an 
enemy, tear his face off." 
Even Williarns and West, the 
two girls who call themselves 
half-Bloods, 
seem 
intimately 
fa rniliar with the rules, prayers, 
and symbols of the gang. While 
West talks about the friends she 
32 
has lost to gang violence, she 
absent-mindedly 
doodles 
their 
na rnes in red and black, the colors 
of the Bloods: "RIP · my fallen 
angels," she writes around pictures 
of five-pointed stars. "Nonnie, 
Brillhead, Moe-Milly, Lil Larry, 
Tank, Cornell." The letter "C" in 
"Cornell" is drawn with a slash 
through it, a visual disrespect to 
the Crips. The '.'B" in Brillhead is 
. ·drawn bigger than any other letter 
on the page, meant to symbolize 
To become a Crip, she 
says, a girl has to "be 
sexitalid" with every 
man in the local group_, 
'' 
" 
T ' 
h 
1 
ts not rape, t. e 
girls insist; it's just what 
.you do to get in. 
or set. 
Blood 
dominance. 
These 
handwriting.trends are standard in 
Blood personal writings and graffiti 
across America; the same habits 
are visible in the handwritten 
Blood codes seized by NHPD. 
When Williams and West speak, 
they use Blood code words that 
are translated in the handbooks. 
Despite their half-status, these girls 
have absorbed too much of the 
national philosophy and dogma to 
be brushed aside as wannabes. 
"Will it Ever Go Away?" 
Whether 
Bloods 
are 
fighting Crips, or kids from the Tre 
are fighting kids from the Hill, the 
fact remains that kids believe it is 
more dangerous not to have a crew 
than to join a gang or rep a hood. 
Without backup, it can be hard 
to walk through other parts of the 
city. "If you walkin' in a place where 
you don't know people, the people 
from that hood gonna check you," 
says C.J. Pike, a scrawny' .13-year-
old-boy from the Ville. "They 
gonna surround you, ask you 
where you from, what you doin' in 
their hood, how long you gonna 
be there for." The kids who claim 
that hoods are likely to defend it 
against an outsider without a pack 
of friends alongside him. "If you 
don't say you gonna leave real soon, 
they make you leave." Two of Pike's 
friends got shot in broad daylight 
this year for walking in a hood 
that wasn't their own. Last year, 
-
Maurice '!ank'' Wilson, a college-
bound 17-year-old, was shot in the 
middle of winter, usually a calmer 
time. Wilson was lucky 
the shot 
wasn't fatal. 
· Even with luck, however, it's hard 
to avoid the system of violence. Kids 
are especially susceptible to gang 
affiliations if their blood relatives 
remain active. "I got a friend 
whose parents are both Crips, and 
her three older brothers are Crips," 
says Willia1ns. "She's an honors 
student." But she isn't a Crip, so 
"she had to move out the house, 
because her parents don't want 
nothin' to do with her." West and 
Willia 1ns both seem to understand 
that if parents show their children 
love and affection at an early age, 
the kids are more likely to stay 
off the streets. "The kids that got 
beaten when they was young, they 
the ones who's in the streets now," 
says Willia 1ns solemnly. "Give 
them respect instead of beating 
them. Take them out somewhere 
so they don't get bored and hang 
out with bad kids on the streets. 
' 
Show them love. Then they'll stay 
out the hood." 
For streets to be safe for Willia1ns 
THE NEw JouRNAL 

and her friends, the city needs 
to prevent the next generation 
of youth from stepping up and 
re-populating the major gangs. 
Community 
centers 
such 
as 
Jeuland's Your Place · and after-
school 
education 
programs 
such as Youth Rights Media, a 
nonprofit that teaches kids to 
make documentary films, may 
be getting closer to effective gang 
prevention. 
Your 
Place 
meets 
weekday afternoons from 4:30 to 
7:30 p.m., the idle hours between 
school and curfew during which 
kids are most likely to commit 
crimes. The progra rn schedules 
activities to occupy kids during the 
prime hours of criminal activity, 
and gives kids creative outlets for 
emotions that might otherwise turn 
ugly. In addition to the counselors, 
school tutors, career specialists, 
and religious mentors. that Your 
Place provides, Jeuland schedules 
"superVised free time" -activities 
like karaoke and painting-for kids 
to express themselves in a way that 
adults can positively reinforce. 
"That might seem like it has 
nothing to do with gang violence, 
but every single one of 9ur kids has 
either seen a shooting, run away 
from a shooting, or lived their lives 
in fear of getting shot," says Jeuland. 
"Kids who have been traumatized 
like this, they're expecting people 
to give up on them, to tell them 
they're bad kids. To get up and sing 
in front of friends, and have adults 
cheer them on - it makes a world 
of difference. We've seen it." 
The schools are stepping up, too. 
This year, two middle schools .Ln 
New Haven creat~d branches Gang 
Resistance Education and Training 
(G.R.E.A.T.), a national education 
progra an in which police officers 
OcTOBER 2010 
teach kids about the dangers of 
joining gangs. Will G.R.E.A.T. be 
successful? Sgt. Ricardo Rodriguez 
.. 
ofNHPD, the officer who teaches · 
the progra rn, is enthusiastic. "We. 
won't know for sure for years, 
until we see whether or not these · 
kids have stayed out of gangs, but 
they've responded really well so 
f " 
ar. 
Can the city actually keep its 
kids from shooting each other? 
Pike, for one, thinks the violence 
will extinguish itself if he just waits 
it out. "Probably by the time I'm 
24, there will be no more Bloods or 
Crips," he says. Why 24? "They'll 
all be in jail or dead by then." 
West disagrees. "Lockin' people 
up ain't gonna stop it," she says. 
"It will just get worse inside the 
"Probably by the time Im 
2~ there will be no more 
Bloods or Crips~ n says 
Pike~ 13. ccThey~ll all be 
in jail or dead by then. n 
jails. You can't lock all the people 
up that's involved in this gang 
violence; its too many." 
And Pelletier plays the realist 
when discussing violence in New 
Haven. "Will it ever go away? I 
been working here for 20 years. I 
don't think you can ever stop it," 
he says. Of the violence, and the 
guns and drugs that come with it, 
he says, "It's like trash 
it never 
stops coming~ it's just a matter of 
taking it out. But if you don't. take 
out the trash, it's gonna pile up and 
be bad for everybody." 
33 



**Title: A Father and His Daughter**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
' . 
' 
thing to do in my home-
, 
town, if it was a weekend 
and you weren't old enough to 
drive, was a movie at the local mall. 
You might grab a slice of pizza first; 
but in any case, you needed a ride. 
Usually, the responsibility for my 
friends and me fell to Julia's dad, 
a quiet guy with a moustache and 
thick glasses. Over the course of 
many 10-minute drives, he be-
came privy to all the conspiracy 
theories and crushes that plague 
14-year-old girls. It never occurred 
to us that he could hear from the 
front seat. 


Three years later, if any-
one's dad had suggested driving us 
to prom, we would have been mor-
tified. There were times and places 
for our dads and their cars 
and 
far fewer of them, as soon as we 
learned how to drive ourselves. 
Then, we could come and go as 
we pleased. I kept the garage-door 
opener for my dad's house in the 
console of my car, its shape distinc-
tive enough to find by fishing in 
the pile of loose receipts and CDs. 
Now, travel, by car or otherwise, 
with either parent leaves me nos-
talgic. This summer, when I flew to 
Arizona for a week of hiking with 
my dad, he held my boarding pass 
as he had when I was 10. When 
it was time to return from Grand 
Canyon National Park to the air-
port in Phoenix, he drove us across 
the state in a rental car whose cu-
pholders we filled with trail mix. 
I put my feet up on the dash and 
napped. Later in the summer, as 
we took out our boots for a hike, 
my dad would turn to me and say, · 
that's Grand Canyon dust. 


Because its terrain varies so much 
in elevation, Arizona is home to 
at least six biomes. My dad and I 
drove through desert scrub, where 
Saguaro cactuses stand like traffic 
cops. We drove through charpar-
ral, long plains studded with low 
bushes and houses visible miles be-
fore we reached them. Higher up, 
we drove through forests of fir and 
pine. It was like driving across the 
world. 


I inherit two things from my 
dad: driving, and insomnia. On 
my 16th birthday, he surprised 
me by pulling around the car after 
breakfast and telling me to get in. 
I was terrified. He made me drive 
to a nearby parking lot and back. 
That year, before I was ready to try 
my mother's manual-transmission 
car, teaching me to drive was my 
dad's job. We made time for lessons 
when I was at his place. Our long 
Sunday drives traced tree-shaded 
roads in rural western Connecti-
cut, qut past the spot on the river 
where people go tubing. 


"Lots of stupid and untalented 
people make perfectly good driv-
ers," my dad reassured me, when I 
despaired of ever learning how to 
drive. "Anyone can drive." When 
I attempted parallel parking, he'd 
recite Woody Allen: "It's OK, I can 
walk to the curb from here." 


Now, both of us can drive, but 
neither of us has ever been able to 
sleep. I stay up too late, and my 
dad wakes up too early. When I 
was 12 and my parents separated, 
my dad wouldn't give me the base-
ment room at his house, because it 
was two flights of stairs away from 
his, and he didn't want me to be 
lonely or to have trouble falling 
asleep. 


When I was very young, my dad 
would wrap me in coats and put 
me in the car and drive me all over 
town until the rhythm of wheels 
on road put me to sleep. The year I 
was six and afraid of fireworks, he 
did this on the fourth of July, being 
careful to avoid the routes closest 
to the shows' noise. 


In Arizona, my dad and I drove all 
day and night into Flagstaff, 
"World's First International Dark 
Sky City''; out of Flagstaff, down a 
stretch of highway adopted by the 
Flagstaff Optimists' Club, and 
another by the Baha'i Faith. We 
drove in the direction of the San 
Francisco Peaks. Massive, white-
capped, the range would be cele-
brated in any other state, but in 
Grand Canyon country, it's given 
short shrift. We drove into Sedona 
at sunset, when its red rocks glow 
like heat lamps. "Crystal Castles 
Metaphysical Department Store," 
said a sign there. Late, we saw signs 
for a river called Big Bug Creek and 
a town named Bumble Bee. 


In the middle of nowhere, be-
fore we got to Phoenix, my dad 
pulled off the road. "I'm going to 
close my eyes for just a minute," 
he said. "And when I awake, you 
can remind me to tell you the story 
of the Death Valley real estate op-
portunity." On the road there was 
time for stories. My dad, being my 
dad, knows everything about me, 
but I hadn't known why he didn't 
serve in Vietnam (his December 
birthday was late in the lottery) or 
the five American cities he would 
choose to show a tourist (Seattle 
made his list). My dad believes 
that Oreos and oranges are the 
best snacks for hiking, and that 
Gatorade is important. My dad's 
ex-girlfriend was not a good travel 
companion, too fussy, but my dad 
told me I am good to travel with, 
because I'm always game. 


My dad and I were still an hour 
out of Phoenix when we saw six 
javelinas, hairy Southwestern pigs, 
in the light of our headlights. By 
this time of night, long stretches 
of highway were empty except for 
the pigs. We waited for them to 
nose their way across the road and 
then pulled off for gas. Besides 
Coke and cigarettes, the conve-
nience store sold antiques, mari-
juana paraphernalia, and a broad 
array of magazines. Outside, a 
sign on the door reads, "100s OF 
KNIVES." 


Let's stop and poke around, I 
suggested. Why not, said my dad, 
resigned, laughing. It was so late 
already. Together, we peered at the 
weirdest merchandise. Behind the 
counter stood a greasy-haired teen-
age boy and, next to him, some-
thing labeled "Fully Functional 
Umbrella/Sword $36.99." 


We paid for our drinks and got 
back in the car. We were flying out 
of Phoenix the next day, very early. 
We were going to use our hotel 
room there for four, maybe five, 
hours of sleep. "If I was your age," 
my dad told me, "I would just 
sleep in the car. Cancel the hotel 
room." 


"Let's do it!" I said, but he shook 
his head and drove on. There was 
a difference between being 20 and 
your daughter being 20. He wasn't 
about to let me sleep on the side of 
the road. 


When we got to the hotel in 
Phoenix, the desert night was still 
warm. It took us a few minutes to 
find parking—desperate minutes: 
we couldn't believe that after such 
a long drive, there was going to be 
no parking at the end. Toting duffel 
bags, we spilled into the fluores-
cent lobby, where there were two 
men dressed business-casual with 
two women whose short skirts, 
high heels, and makeup were all 
wrong. I had never seen prosti-
tutes before. We went upstairs to 
our room, and I spent some time 
on the balcony, green light drift-
ing up from the hotel pool, as my 
dad inside tried to sleep. The next 
morning, we turned in the rental 
and flew home. 


Back home, late in the summer, 
my dad and I were in the car again, 
and he remembers the story of the 
thousand frogs. He had never told 
me this story before. One night 
when I was two, he was driving 
me down an empty road in New 
Hampshire, after a rainstorm. He 
was trying to help me fall asleep. 
The road was wet and slick, and 
the frogs were out because of the 
weather. There were thousands of 
them, my dad told me, hopping 
all over the road. He must have 
crushed dozens of frogs as I slept 
in the passenger seat, the road rib-
boned beneath us, and he drove 
me, smoothly, on and on into the 
night.


**Title: 14 MILES PER HOUR**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
14 
MILES PER HOUR 
The authors father stands in the middle of the road at a stop along Route 66 
O cTOBER 2010 
37 


**Title: How to Succeed at Craigslist - 0$ OBO (New Haven, Yale)**
**Author: Bay Gross**
**Page number(s): 38**

• 
. 
How to Succeed at Craigslist - 0$ OBO (New Haven, Yale) 
by Bay Gross 
' . . . . 
" . 
. -
' .. 
' ' . '-
Date: 2010-10-15, 2:25PM EDT 
Reply to: sale-jzx6m-20 1 0927296@craigslist.org [Errorswhenreplyingtoads?] 
~- - ·· ' ··' ················· • · • ·········· =
- :: , e;: ........ ; .... :::; .-:.:: .::c.:.::::: .. ::::.s:: ... ; ..... : .:::::::::::::;::c;:tu:.:::::::::z:::::s:e::s;;.:;:::un;se::e:::::e:.::::::e:::::.:::u,:.::::::m .:::e;:: .. ;n:c::::e ... : .... :;.:.o.: .. :.:u::::.::::,,, e: .. :.;::::e::., ... _;,,,; .ss:.:::.:::u .;u ... :;::.;; .:e::.::.::!;Jie.::: .. ;;;: n::::::::::: .::a.:e:;:::: .::.c .. ::.:::::;::.::: .: .... u;;;.::c::: 
·A 'been-there' guide for the cash-strapped interior decorator: 
-
There are some great things about shopping in traditional stores: the consistency of selection and pricing; the choice to pay by cash, 
credit, check, or coupon; that warm sense of security you get approaching the register, confident in a safe transaction. 
You know the 
feeling, you've walked those aisles. But especially for broke college kids, getting a good deal trumps all safety standards and concerns about 
comfort. Enter Craigslist. 
••• 
Yes, the Craigslist. That seedy bounty of the Internet. That cornucopia of all things cheap and/ or stolen. It is the perfect r~source for 
today's frugal consumer 
the ideal alternative when Salvo's selection turns up too chic. 
For the uninitiated, Craigslist is an online classifieds database, started by Craig Newberg in 1995, that now ranks among the top 
ten most visited sites in America. The model is genius: a unique intersection between commerce and gambling where the rush of eBay 
meets the creep of ChatRoullete. Where every purchase is weighed against the probability of being swindled, and "cash only" payments 
. sometimes mean organs too. Where men and women, minors and geriatrics come together to buy, sell, defraud, and bamboozle . 
My own foray into the mysterious world of Craigslist took me on tour of the Connecticut underground, and exposed me to a teeming 
economy, sheltered behind the anonymity oflnternet pseudonym. First, there was Frank the 'bike dealer' in East Haven, whose one-room 
apartment offered an unusually diverse assortment of Cannondale bicycles for suspiciously low rates. Fearing criminal consequences, I 
instead turned to Dave, who seemed slightly more legal when we met at 6 a.m. on Crown Street. Soon to follow was Liza, a lovely little 
chain-smoker from Branford &om whom I bought a $30 sofa. In introducing the couch to my common room, I suspect I may have also 
introduced invasive parasites into the larger Davenport community. When all was said and done, however, I emerged with a great bike, 
• . 
a comfortable couch, and both of my kidneys. Not a bad deal. 
Takeaway Points: 
-A lot of ads will say "no e-mails"... Nobody likes a paper trail. 
-Leather is almost never leather . 
-Delivery is pretty much impossible. 
-Bedbugs can make a grown man tremble. 
Location: New Haven; Yale 
It's NOT OK to contact this poster with services or other commercial interests . 
38 
THE NEw JoURNAL 



**Title: [Untitled]**
**Author: [Unknown]**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 

