Publication date: March 4, 1988
Volume: 20
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Carter Brooks
- Editor-in-Chief: James Bennet
- Business Manager: Norman Dong
- Managing Editors: Susan Orenstein, Jennifer Sachs
- Designer: John Stella
- Production Manager: Mary Chen
- Photography Editor: Pearl Hu
- Associate Business Managers: Jodi Lox, Grace White, Pamela Weber
- Associate Editors: Martha Brant, Daniel Waterman, Skye Wilson, Peter Zusi
- Associate Designers: Pamela Geismar, Jon Wertheimer
- Associate Photography Editor: Ann Light
- National Sales Manager: Laura Smith
- Circulation Manager: Malaika Amon
- Staff: Joanna Bober, Erin Kelly, Cameron Brooks, David King, Cynthia Cameros, Heidi Schulman, Andrew Cohen, Kirk Semple, Jenny Colleton, Barry Shimelfarb, Jennifer Fleissner, Stu Weinzimer, John Gill, Jamie Workman, Mitchell Hammond, Doug Wright, Jonathan Hoyt
- Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, James W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffry Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Ripoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

Between the Vines
Street Talk - Skye Wilson
The Primary Ambition of Irwin Zucker - Matt Fleischer
A Fare Market - Andrew Cohen
Serving Tradition - Cynthia Cameros
Overdue Notice - Julie Hantman
Love Triangles - Jennifer Sachs


**Title: Street Talk**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 6**

A man's words, a hard stare control the space that women have learned is not their own.


**Title: The Primary Ambition of Irwin Zucker**
**Author: Matt Fleischer**
**Page number(s): 10**

Hart's back in. DuPont and Babbitt are out. You know who's 14t . . . or do you? A Presidential non-contender has more to offer than you might think.


**Title: A Fare Market**
**Author: Andrew Cohen**
**Page number(s): 16**

Passengers are not the only ones who must wait for a cab in New Haven: Independent operators battle for taxi permits.


**Title: Serving Tradition**
**Author: Cynthia Cameros**
**Page number(s): 22**

High salaries at private law firms have made the Yale Law School take new measures to protect its philosophy of public service.


**Title: Overdue Notice**
**Author: Julie Hantman**
**Page number(s): 26**

Some student library workers feel disadvantaged and look to the union for a solution.


**Title: Love Triangles**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**
**Page number(s): 28**

The Psychology of Love tells how to draw your way to a better relationship. But its theories end up going in circles.



**Title: NewsJournal**
**Author: Kirk Semple**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NewsJournal 
Foreign Policy 
The International Center of New 
Haven has 
run out 
of money. 
Burdened with a $10,000 deficit from 
last year, the traditional resource of 
New Haven's international student 
communities cannot raise sufficient 
funds on its own. It has turned to Yale 
for help. 

The Center, founded in 1949 as a 
gathering place and residence for 
Yale's international students, separated 
from the University 33 years ago to 
serve the greater community. It now 
provides social and academic support 
for international students in New 
Haven. 

Yale, 
which 
gives 
some 
assistance to the Center, is hesitant to 
increase its commitment, citing other 
budgetary priorities and questioning 
whether the Center is of use to Yale 
students. 

But Gretchen 
Kingsley, 
executive director of the Center, warns 
that if the current fiscal problem is not 
solved, "the community that will be 
affected the most will be the Yale 
international community." She 
estimates that of the Center's 2000 
members, over 80 percent are affiliated 
with Yale and most are in the graduate 
schools. 

From an office in two Yale-donated 
rooms on Temple Street and a house 
on Prospect Street, the Center supplies 
information on everything from travel 
to taxes, 
offers host 
family and 
language 
programs, 
and provides 
translators, interpreters, and foreig_!l-
language tutors. The house serves as a 
residence for 15 people, mostly Yale 
graduate students, and as a site for 
receptions, picnics, and discussion 
groups. Gad Barzilai, 
an Israeli 
Fulbright scholar in political science at 
Yale, has lived in the house since 
September. He values the Center as a 
forum for "debate with people from 
different countries about political and 
social issues." 

Funded by donations and a nearly 
exhausted endowment, the Center has 
accrued a deficit over the last seven 
years. According to Shah Karim (SY 
'81, GRAD '88), an economics student 
from Bangladesh and a member of the 
Center's board of directors, this year 
the Center is far from satisfying its 
$150,000 budget. He explains that 'if 
the board cannot find sufficient funds, 
it will have to mortgage the house and 
drastically 
cut 
back 
the 
Center's 
programs. 

Rad Daly (SM '49), director of 
administrative services and associate 
secretary of the University, believes 
that Yale could profit from a strong 
International Center. Last summer the 
University doubled its contribution to 
the Center from one to two dollars per 
registered person. The Graduate 
School matched 70 percent of these 
funds. Yale has reviewed other ways to 
increase its involvement in the Center, 
such as augmenting its donations or 
buying the house. 

But, 
as 
Daly 
explains, 
University 
has 
not 
arrived at a decision for two reasons: 
its engagement in labor and Teaching 
Assistant negotiations and its 
reservations about the Center's use. 

While Daly concedes that it is difficult 
to figure out a formula for the human 
services that the Center provides, he 
doubts that the students themselves use 
it. "As I see it, it takes care of spouses 
and children," he says. 

George Andreopoulos, a political 
science post-doctoral research fellow 
from Greece and a resident at the 
International Center, believes that 
Daly is poorly informed. He faults 
both the administration's insufficient 
interest in the Center and the Center's 
lack of publicity for Daly's mis-
conception. 

In an effort to make the community, 
and Yale in particular, more aware 
and supportive of its programs, the 
Center has organized a spring fund-
raising campaign. It held a 
benefi~ 
concert with the Berkeley Chamber 
Orchestra last week and has scheduled 
a bazaar and several international 
meals for the coming months. 
• 
-Kirk Semple 


**Title: Flight of Fancy**
**Author: Mitchell Hammond**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

A 
few weeks fl'om now over the 
Aegean Sea, science and myth will 
converge in a tiny humanpowered 
aircraft called Daedalus. The aircraft is 
named for the figure in Greek. myth-
ology 
who 
with his son Icarus 
attempted to escape from the dungeon 
of King Minos. That Daedalus used 
wings of wax and feathers. The 
modern one relies on featherweight 
plastics, has a 102-foot wing span, and 
weighs only 70 pounds. Begun three 
years ago as the brainchild of a group 
of scholars at Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, the Daedalus project 
now involves the efforts of two Yale 
professors. If successful, the aircraft 
will set a new record for manpowered 
flight. 

Tracing the path of its mythical 
namesake, Daedalus will fly at about 
15 miles an hour from Heraklion, the 
capital of Crete, to the island of San 
Torini, 70 miles away. Although the 
distance is nearly twice as far as any 
other manpowered aircraft has gone, 
early tests have been encouraging. A 
year ago last January, a less stream-
lined version of Daedalus flew 37 
miles, breaking the distance record set 
by the Gossamer Albatross, which 
crossed the English Channel in 1979. 

Since the .stress of pedaling for four 
to six hours 20 feet above the ocean is 
comparable to running two mara-
thons, the Daedalus team turned to 
Ethan Nadel, 
Yale professor of 
physiology and epidemiology, to deal 
with the complexities of what Nadel 
terms "the human machine." At the 
John B. Pierce Foundation Labora-
tory, affiliated with the Yale Medical 
School, Nadel ran tests on over two 
dozen athletes who applied to pilot the 
craft. He selected five candidates, 
including 
a 
triathlete from 
University of Connecticut Medical 
School, three American cyclists, and 
the top-ranked cyclist on the Greek 
national team. 

With the assistance of second-year 
medical student Alan 
Hillibrand, 
Nadel has attended. to the needs of his 
pilots during the flight. He conducted 
tests to determine the temperature in 
the cockpit for optimum performance 
and consulted with Daedalus engineers 
in order to provide adequate venti-
lation. He also developed a fluid rich in 
carbohydrates for the pilots to drink 
during the flight. 

The team is aiming for an a~urate 
enactment of the fabled flight. ' Sarah 
Morris, associate professor of Classics 
at Yale, studied close to a dozen 
different versions of the myth before 
finally 
establishing an acceptable 
route. Morris sees the project as 
another stage in the myth's evolution; 
an account of the flight will appear in a 
book she is writing on the myth. 

Currently, the team of scholars and 
pilots are at Edwards Air Force Base in 
California for final training and flight 
preparation. The primary Daedalus 
craft suffered some damage to one 
wing and its cockpit in a minor crash 
earlier this month, but the team plans 
to travel to Crete with the replacement 
craft at the end of March. Although to 
some the project may seem like model 
building on a grand scale, Nadel firmly 
believes that it has significance beyond 
the record books. "It has research and a 
lot of students involved, the generation 
of new knowledge, and it educates the 
general public," he said. "This is what 
an academic project ought to be." 
-Mitclull Hammond


**Title: End of the Road**
**Author: John Kim**
**Page number(s): 5**

Seventeen Yale volunteers returned 
from winter break to find that Dwight 
Hall had decided to discontinue Group 
Work, a program that arranged weekly 
day trips for over 40 children living in 
the Quinnipiac View (Q-View) 
housing project in Fair Haven. Group 
Work depended on a Dwight Hall van 
to transport the children. But the Yale 
Motor Pool, which manages all Yale 
vehicles, charged that volunteers took 
the program's van on unauthorized 
personal trips. "We found that vans 
signed out to go to Q-View were 
coming back with 600 miles put on 
them over the weekend," Dwight Hall 
Director Jack Hasegawa said. The 
Motor Pool 
refused to continue 
insuring the van; Dwight Hall could 
not afford to insure it; and Group 
Work was paralyzed. 

Dwight Hall considered keeping the 
van in use but feared being sued in the 
case of an accident. This almost 
happened three years ago when a 
Group Work child fell out of a moving 
van. "The injury wasn't serious, and 
the parents were glad to have their 
child back safe," Hasegawa said. "But 
in the second-most litigious state in the 
country, any one of those kids could 
still wipe us off the face of the non-
profit world." 

Dwight Hall sold the van and left 
Group Work leaders looking for 
options. Brian Lee (BR '88), the 
student coordinator of the program, 
had hoped that the van would be given 
to another volunteer program, which 
would lend it to Group Work. But the 
job training program that acquired 
the van uses it on weekday afternoons 
and weekends, the only times Group 
Work members could meet with the 
children. Lee said he had considered 
having volunteers take buses to the 
Q-View 
project. 
"But the neigh-
borhood isn't very safe," he said, "and 
the purpose of the program was to take 
the kids places they couldn't usually 
go." 

When Group Work started 10 years 
ago, volunteers had no choice but to 
use buses for transportation. At that 
time, Q-View had a community center 
which served as the program's activity 
site. In 1983, the New Haven Boys and 
Girls Club sponsored the program and let 
the volunteers use a van and the Club's 
building. Later, the YMCA provided 
a van and driver, but, according to 
Hasegawa, 
their 
service proved 
unreliable. To make the program 
independent, Becky Bunnell (BR '84), 
a former director of Group Work, 
raised $11,000 from alumni to buy the 
van for Dwight Hall. Now, however, 
without Motor Pool support, Group 
Work cannot function as it has in the 
past. 

Some volunteers still take buses or 
borrow cars to see the children. But 
most of the students have made good-
bye trips to Q-View. Lee, who will 
graduate this term, said he can no 
longer make a commitment to the 
program. In order for Group Work to 
rebuild, 
he said, 
students must 
"conceive of a new way" to run the 
program. Hasegawa agreed. "Dwight 
Hall 
is 
student-run and student-
oriented ," he said. "If people want to 
revive Group Work, they'll have to 
take the initiative." 
-John Kim


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 6**

Street Talk 
Since I left childhood, 
the remarks, leers, 
and gestures have 
become part of my 
definition of walking 
outside. 

After midnight on a Wednesday night, 
I am returning a borrowed computer 
disk to a friend. I cannot hear the 
groups of students a few blocks away, 
but I know they are there, passing 
through Cross Campus or talking 
outside Naples pizzeria. A man ap-
proaching me is my only companion 
on Temple Street. His presence makes 
the evening's calm vanish. By instinct I 
cross the street to put as much distance 
between us as possible. The stranger 
looks like a student at first glance and 
doesn't seem 
threatening. 
But he 
makes me wary. I drop my shoulders 
and lift my chin in order to appear as 
tall as possible, and try to walk with a 
purposeful gait. The show of confi-
dence is more for my benefit than his. 

T he man is probably in his early 
30's. I size him up as he calls from 
across the road, "Can I ask you a 
question?" I keep my pace and muffie 
some response, neither yes nor no. 
"Where's Orange Street?" he con-
tinues. 

Corduroys, 
medium-build, 
shirt over a t-shirt. I gesture in the 
direction I suspect is correct but 
question my accuracy. New Haven 
streets are made up of buildings to me, 
not names. Curly, light-brown hair, 
maybe blond. I feel guilty about my 
brusque response, 
wanting to be 
friendly or at least polite. "Can I ask 
you another question?" he persists. He 
starts across the street towards me. On 
drugs? I don't know. Definitely not a 
student. His face doesn't alarm me. 
But his words do. "Would you watch 
me jack off?" His hand reaches for his 
zipper. 

I quickly turn the corner, glancing 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I• 
up Wall Street to see people by Naples. 
I know that I will be safe; he won't 
follow me. I look over my shoulder and 
capitalize on my fear and anger. "Fuck 
off," I say derisively. Somehow I pull it 
off. 


For the next few days I bring the 
subject up occasionally, 
either to 
explain why I ask for an escort home or 
to get feedback from others. I also need 
to dissociate myself from his offense by 
making it public. Many times, both 
women and men responding to the 
story express confusion, shock, sur-
prise. "Why do men do that?" they ask. 
"As a man, I don't have to worry about 
being alone. I can't imagine not being 
comfortable enough to walk around." 
"That's really horrible," they say. 


Part of me wants to brush off their 
reactions. After all, such incidents 
happen every day. Although that night 
was the first time a harasser asked me 
to watch him masturbate, the harass-
ment in general joins a long list of 
offenses. The women I know have all 
been victims at some time, to ~orne 
extent. My mind provides any number 
of scenarios: day or night, 
busy 
sidewalk or isolated street, group of 
women or alone. Since I left childhood, 
~· the remarks, leers, and gestures have 
become part of my definition of walk-
ing outside. Over time, these routine 
assaults have undermined my sense of 
self-sufficiency. Each incident threat-
ens my identity as an independent 
woman, as well as my safety. 


When I leave the corner of Wall and 
Temple, I feel both numb and strange-
ly alert. Several yards ahead of me, 
someone unlocks a bike. I estimate the 
length of time before he crosses my 
path. I try to determine whether he will 
turn at the intersection and whether 
the street ahead is well-lighted. Only 
then do I notice that I am almost 
home. Once outside the residential 
college gate, I consider abandoning my 
·~ errand to seek the safety of my room. 
But in familiar territory, my fear 
seems exaggerated. 


On the street leading to my friend's 
room, a policeman observes the pas-
sers-by. I want to tell him about the 
man just a few blocks away, but I feel 
silly. Nothing has really happened to 
me, I tell myself as I walk on, but I 
thank the policeman silently for being 
there. A man stands in the passage 
between the Co-op and my friend's 
college. By this time I am tn(\ timid to 
pass, and so I wait for him to finish urin-
ating against the wall. My hesitancy 
makes me feel both prudish and vul-
nerable. The policeman starts in my 
direction, and I smile weakly. I feel as 
if I will never make it to a place with 
familiar faces. 


Given time to think about that night, I 
realized that I had underestimated its 
impact. Something significant had oc-
curred. I studied "street harassment" a 
year ago in Introduction to 
Women~ 
Studies, taught by Assistant Professor 
Micaela di Leonardo, and I remember 
feeling relieved when I read her article, 
"The Political Economy of Street 
Harassment." Right there in academic 
language someone had verified that 
harassment exists, and that it 
IS 
unwarranted. 


But my response stemmed from ha-
bit, not from anything I had learned in 
an article a year ago. Taught since 
childhood to ignore the comments, I 
had come to overlook my reactions. 
Street harassment had taken on such 
an elusive quality that I could not 
identify its effects. And consequently, 
every incident in which a man ha-
rassed 
me became a 
non-event, 
especially under less 
menacing 
circumstances. It didn't really hap-
pen, so I could not really be dis-
turbed by it. At the time, even my 
would-be exhibitionist failed to stir me 
out of that mentality, 
so that 
I 
only smiled at an on-duty police 
officer and felt embarrassed about 
bothering him. Later I recognized how 
much I had compromised my feelings. 


But di Leonardo leaves no room for 
uncertainty. Street harassment, like 
rape, 
constitutes 
violence 
against 
women. And our society trivializes it, 
as it does rape. Di Leonardo testifies to 
the event, first by defining it: 
Street harassment occurs when one 
or more strange men accost one or 
more women whom they perceive as 
heterosexual in a public place which 
is not the woman's/women's work-
site. 
Through looks, 
words, or 
gestures the man asserts his right to 
intrude on the woman's attention, 
defining her as a sexual object, and 
forcing her to interact with him. 


The key words are "intrude" and 
"force." Masquerading as 
sexual 
compliment, street harassment serves 
to rob women of their freedom. 


According to di Leonardo, our cul-
ture expects women to be friendly, 
even when men are not. Therefore, 
they have two "acceptable" reactions to 
a harasser: either to smile or to show 
fear. Both signal deference to someone 
of higher status. Since the second wave 
of the women's movement, street ha-
rassment has increased significantly as 
women require more time outside to 
conduct thc.-ir business and to take care 
of their needs. The day-to-day abuses 
they suffer provide a quick way for 
men to repossess outside territory. 


Society redefines these abuses as 
flattery. "They are flirting with you; 
can't you take a compliment?" Which 
leads into: "It must be something about 
you. What were you wearing; how did 
you walk?" Many women accept street 
harassment in its more mild forms as 
complimentary, as reflective of their 
sexual appeal. But in accepting ha-
rassment as a compliment, women also 
accept an invasion of their privacy and 
a restriction of their mobility. 


I don't want to do that. In struggling 
to find an appropriate response to 
harassment, I used to stay silent. But 
too much of women's language is si-
lence. Sometime last year, I began to 
train myself to reclaim my voice. 


When I felt safe- if there were a 
number of people around or I had an 
easy out- I started to swear back, and 
once I told the stranger to "chill." I 
usually said the first thing that entered 
my mind. However, that method has 
its drawbacks. Saying "fuck you" to a 
harasser who has couched his assault in 
sexual innuendo seems to be the wrong 
reply. That night on Temple Street 
was the first time I had managed to say 
"fuck off' instead. I considered it a 
major accomplishment. 


Swearing back appeals to me be-
cause it counters the notion of what 
"ladies" 
should say. 
Since 
street 
harassers view women as inferior, I 
want to break away from their image 
of "female" as much as possible. But it 
isn't always right to do so. Foremost, a 
woman has to consider her safety. A 
man aggressively calling names from 
his car could have a hidden weapon. 
Even a foot gunning the accelerator 
becomes life-threatening. 


In order to talk back to harassers, I 
have to believe that I am not at fault. 
Society leads women to think that they 
bear the responsibility for the cat call 
out of a car window and the "hey, 
baby" from the corner. Yet rape aware-
ness 
literature uses 
the 
phrase 
"blaming the victim" for logic like that. 
From their own, ,experience, women 
can testify that street harassment has 
little to do with their clothes. At most it 
would seem that their contribution is 
having breasts. 


Knowing where the blame lies does 
not remove my feelings of suscept-
ibility. In facing a walk outside, part of 
me welcomes the advent of the cold 
l weather and the necessary layers of 
· clothes. Once shapeless, I feel more 
l protected- reduced to a figure without 
~ contour. I realize, however, that my 
~ disguise has few real results. After all, 
g my midnight harasser found me in 
i head-to-toe bulky clothing. Although 
he can take advantage of his mask as a 
stranger, I can do little to prevent his 
attack except to remove myself from all 
public situations. But that non-solu-
tion leaves me feeling robbed. Why 
should I have to eliminate myself to be 
free from scrutiny? 


The harasser has a lesson to teach: 
Women have to watch themselves 
while in the public domain. They 
never really walk alone since someone 
else always observes them. Acknow-
ledging this invasion, I have to seek 
protection, usually from men who 
enjoy immunity to this kind of sexual 
harassment (although many perceived 
homosexuals suffer another type of 
abuse). For a woman who strives to be 
understood as self-sufficient, turning 
to a man makes me feel as- if I'm turn-
ing to Daddy to help me walk across 
the street. This solution serves to keep 
men in control and to give value to 
their biceps and not their personatities. 


Although I certainly appreciate the 
protection of my male friends, I resent 
that only they give me unhindered 
access to public space. 


I later learned that the man who had 
harassed me also harassed a friend of 
mine-on that same Wednesday night. 
Hidden in a dumpster's shadow, he 
surprised her. The words were the 
same, and she too was not touched. Yet 
the incidents left both of us shaken. We 
each had to find a way to respond, to 
assess the danger, and to understand 
the implications. It was a demand on 
our time and energy that neither of us 
wanted. The next day I decided to re-
port the harassment to the Yale police. 
I sought to counter an event that 
deserved attention: because something 
could have been worse does not mean 
it wasn't bad. The police were respon-
sive, but they encouraged me to report 
~ such a case sooner in the future. As it 
was, he got away with it. 


Skye Wilson, a junior zn Calhoun, 
lS 
associate editor of TNJ. 


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Matt Fleischer**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Between the Vines/Matt Fleischer 
The Primary Ambition of 
Irwin Zucker 
Irwin Zucker got 22 votes for President 
in the New Hampshire Democratic 
primary. On the surface, that makes 
him different from you and me. It also 
makes him different from Michael 
Dukakis, who garnered over 43,350 
votes. Both men are still in the race. 
Perhaps 22 votes mean more than we 
think. 

I never wanted to be President, 
though politics has always interested 
me. My dream was to be Ace Political 
Reporter, dodging through crowds on 
the campaign trail to confront Senator 
Chauncey Shmcndritk about his stand 
on arms sall''l to Southwest Northern 
Eastland. Dreams can fade, though, or 
be .recognized as dreams, and Ace 
Political Reporter soon ended up in my 
closet next to Major Leaguer and 
Woody Allen. Middle school and high 
10 The New Journal/March 4, 1988 
school passed, but I felt no closer to 
politics than I had in sixth grade when 
I patched together a recap of Election 
Night 1980 from the New York Times. 
Indeed, as I became a voter, ostensibly 
entering the political process, I none-
theless felt as distant from it as I had 
working for my elementary school 
M cDivitt Mustang. 
In college, 
my frustration with 
politics has arisen from something 
more basic than a sense of anonymity 
among millions of voters or of the 
invisibility of "politicians" hundreds of 
miles away. Politics- and especially 
Presidential politics- is compelling, 
daunting, seductive, but its essence 
escap~s me. The dictionary definition 
of "politics, noun" does not hint at its 
force. Does politics equal govern'ment? 
Is it the means of entering into a
Politics- and 
especially Presidential 
politics- is compel-
ling, daunting, 
seductive, but its 
essence escapes me. 


Government? Or is it some large 
process upon 
which government 
depends, but which remains free of 
government? Politics seemed to lie 
behind a glass, visible but not tangible. 
To understand, I needed to pass into 
that world beyond. 

Covering a campaign would admit 
me, I had thought, to the World of 
Politics. In my sixth-grade vision I 
would crawl under the other reporters' 
legs, jump up in front, and ask my 
questions. Now I know I would be 
stuck in the back. Bored, I would 
wander over to the complimentary 
doughnuts, then turn around to dis-
cover the press bus traveling at the 
speed of light for the next city. 

Welcome, 
Matt, to the 
Political 
Wilderness that lies outside the World 
of Politics. Here, politicians are not 
programmed, and politics is not an 
assumption, 
but another form of 
human action to be questioned. 

"[Thirty-nine] Aspirants File for 
New Hampshire Primary," the Times 
announced in late December. Some 
were familiar figures from the World 
of Politics, but who were the outsiders 
that had plunked down SIOOO apiece to 
access the ballot? According to the 
Times, one was a chemistry professor, 
another a grocery store clerk, and a 
third was the former leader of the Ku 
Klux Klan. Who, though, was "Irwin 
Zucker, 55, of Eatontown, N.J .," 
living only half an hour from my 
home? What did politics mean to him? 

"The time is at hand when the wear-
ing of prayer shawl and skullcap will 
not bar a man from the White House," 
Wallace Markfield wrote in You Could 
Live If Th9 Let You, "unless, of course, 
the man is Jewish." This sort of senti-
ment, I figured, had sparked an Irwin 
Zucker to enter the race for the Presi-
dency. He lived in Eatontown, which, 
while not affiuent 
itself, 
adjoins 
wealthy Jewish communities in Deal 
and other shore towns. I tried to con-
tact him, but he had an unlisted 
number. Both Eatontown and Mon-
mouth County 
officials 
professed 
ignorance of him, and neither the 
Chamber of Commerce nor the local 
Jewish Community Center were help-
ful. His elusiveness only enriched my 
conception of an aloof individual 
driven by private motives. I thought it 
possible that by the age of 55 one could 
have collected both intense bitterness 
toward politics and enough money to 
express it. A man with an unlisted 
number-to my mind one of the silliest 
of conceits-would willingly spend 
$1000 for no other reason than to 
soothe his ego or to register a protest 
against the political process. 

But this was not Irwin Zucker. The 
address I acquired through a call to the 
New Hampshire secretary of state led 
to a shabby real estate office in a 
parking lot facing a McDonald's-a 
modern-day log cabin amidst suburb-
ia. My knock brought no response. 
Unsure, I noticed a red, white, and 
blue sticker on the mailbox that read 
"Irwin Zucker/Restore Respect." 1 left 
a note. 

We met a couple of days later in the 
McDonald's. Zucker reached across a 
table strewn with papers to shake my 
hand. Broad-shouldcn•d 
-. .. ith thin 
ning dark hair. ht• 
rt•minckd nw 
slightly of Walter Mondale. Upon 
seeing my tape recorder, he suggested 
that we move to his home, which was 
quieter. As we crossed the parking lot, 
Zucker explained that he had spent the 
last several days in Brooklyn con-
sulting with his public relations man, 
auending to campaign literature. Now 
he was thinking through his strategy 
for New Hampshire. Zucker eschewed 
the common shake-hands-and-smile 
approach, asserting that the people of 
New Hampshire were jaded by the 
fawning of the major candidates. He 
wanted to speak at the "nine or ten 
academic colleges in New Hampshire." 
H e thought this reOected his rational 
approach to politics and seemed more 
likely to gain him media attention. 

From the start, I saw that Zucker's 
view of the media was battling his de-
votion to the housing crisis, his focus 
issue. Early in his more than two weeks 
of campaigning in New Hampshire, 
Zucker wrote a press release indicting 
the press itself, claiming it was "more 
interested in what is going on in bed-
rooms than in building them." Though 
disgusted with the "Peeping Tom" me-
dia, Zucker sleeps with the book How 
lo Get Free Press beside his bed. A 
serious candidate- as Zucker, in his 
blazer and tie, 
surely considered 
himself- had to be ready for the media 
when it came. He began our conversa-
tion by complimenting my neat hand-
writing, as he had already done in his 
phone call to arrange our meeting, and 
he seemed impressed by my tape re· 
corder and briefcase. Perhaps if I were 
truly "the media," that meant, in his 
mind, a concomitant elevation of 
himself to media figure. Though the 
press seemed shallow when viewed 
from the Political Wilderness, Zucker 
nevertheless found it difficult not to 
adopt the postures of the World of 
Politics. 

Zucker handed me his campaign li-
terature: 
several 
position 
papers, 
clippings about the ballot in New 
Hampshire, relics from his campaigns 
of the past, and a biography. I began 
by asking him about his background. 
After stressing that he preferred to 
conce"ntrate on the housing problem, 
Zucker spoke candidly about his life-
style and past. Then again, it would 
have been hard to conceal anything 
from me. We were talking in his bed-
room. 

I have never been in another can-
The New JournaUMarch 4, 1988 II 

didate's bedroom or house, but I 
suspect that they in no way resemble 
Zucker's. Senator AI Gore probably 
does not have a pile of clothes lying on 
the floor in his front room, amid scat-
tered papers, 
magazines, 
and 
Domino's Pizza boxes. The front room 
had no heat, and we held our con-
versation in his bedroom in the back. 
He sat on his bed, his wardrobe 
dangling from a rod overhead, and I 
sat on a chair across from him. Zucker 
had moved to New Jersey only a year 
and a half earlier. Previously he lived 
in Brooklyn, where he ran a newspaper 
home delivery service for two decades. 
Financial problems precipitated the 
move. 

, , 
"I have been interested in politics 
since I was ten years old," Zucker 
proudly told me. Beginning in 1970, 
he vied for a number of offices, inclu-
ding positions on a local school board, 
on the New York C ity Council, and on 
the New York State Assembly and 
Senate. He has yet to win one. This 
record he attributes to a lack of money. 
Nevertheless, Zucker refuses to accept 
contributions larger than $100, fearing 
they would lead him to become "a 
governmental prostitute." Zucker 
supports his candidacy almost entirely 
by jobs he takes when not concen-
trating solely on his campaign. He was 
employed most recently by Domino's 
Pizza. 

Zucker speaks proudly of his "hum-
ble background"-as he noted, like 
Dukakis he is of immigrant par-
entage- but believes that his strength 
as a candidate eclipses it. He sees 
himself as the "earthiest candidate 
since Harry S Truman." In one of his 
position papers, Zucker describes his 
common-sense approach and appeal to 
the mind as transcending Senator Paul 
Simon's "cater[ing] to the sensibilities 
(the emotions)." Zucker is not about to 
foster an image for the World of Poli· 
tics that downplays his thinking. 

Zucker considers himself a prag-
matic intellectual. He believes that his 
solutions to the problems "of our coun· 
try validate his candidacy, despite his 
lack of experience in public ·office. 
Looking from the Political Wilderness


**Title: Irwin Zucker's Presidential Campaign**
**Author: Matt Fleischer**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
., 
at the other candidates, Zucker sees 
that "they want to be President to 
satisfy their own ego requirements. If 
you don't even address the housing 
problem- I see them addressing every-
thing else, 
but not 
the housing 
problem- I don't see why you should 
present yourself to the American 
people as a candidate for P resident." 
Zucker is an ardent supporter of free 
enterprise. However, he implores us 
not to ignore the ills of our system, and 
explains that "our slums are worse than 
ever, poverty still affiicts us, [and) 
unemployment haunts us." Zucker 
feels that our housing policy can 
address these problems. Every Ameri-
can, he contends, is allected by the 
housing industry. He has encapsulated 
the situation in what he calls the 
"R iddle of the Sphynx (sic] of Our 
Time": 
Why is it that in the face of the 
enormous and increasingly acceler-
ating technological advances that we 
are heir to, that America's newly-
weds, with both wife and husband 
working, 
find it 
increasingly 
perplexing to realize home 
ownership? 

Zucker responds to this problem in 
part in his "Three Dimensional In-
Depth Statement On D isarmament." 
H e proposes to remove housing from 
public funding, leaving it to the free-
enterprise system. By switching the 
base of property tax from building to 
land, Zucker expects to stimulate a 
building 
boom 
that 
will 
produce 
housing affordable 
to 
the 
poor. 
T hrough this shift in our lives, Zucker 
feels, we can work towards a domestic 
peace that we can then expand to peace 
among nations. In this way we will 
"Restore Respect and dignity to all, 
and to every facet of human endeavor 
and enterprise in our world." 

Zucker has a solid faith in politics, 
but in a different sort than I know. He 
compares current politics to the ideals 
of Estes Kefauver and the cult of inte-
gr~ty. "There has been a diminution of 
respect in our society," Zucker as-
serts. "Basically, I hold the politicians 
responsible for that . . .. They are the 
examples of our society. In fact, Justice 
Brandeis once made that point in a 
dissenting opinion, that, for good or 
evil, our politicians set the example for 
our society. I pick up the paper one 
day and a 
Republican is stealing 
money, the next day a Democrat is 
stealing money. This has permeated 
our society," he said. Zucker points his 
finger at all who betray the public 
trust. Not only docs he call Senator 
Joseph Biden a "delinquent rogue," but 
he decries Robert Dole and all other 
Sl·nators, 
who 
h<· 
ft·ds 
faikd 
discipline Biden properly. 

Politicians, Zucker says, must "per-
form their duty and act in accord with 
the interests of the nation." Thus, he 
sharply criticizes Gore, Simon, and 
others who attend to their electoral 
needs, instead of to the needs of the 
country. Zucker puts his desire to be 
President in perspective: "Maybe this 
is something I want, I want to be 
President, but there are 240 million 
other Americans, what do they care 
about me being President, except that 
I have something that will be helpful to 
them." 

In a phone conversation after the 
primary, Zucker labeled his results a 
"poor showing." He was not dis-
heartened, at least not enough to 
prevent him from leaving for South 
Dakota to campaign for five days be-
fore its caucus. Yes, he told me, his 
financial situation was tight; like Jesus, 
he must take a loaf of bread and feed it 
to the multitude. He had already gam-
bled $850 on two half-page adver-
tisements in the Manchester, N. H ., 
Union-uad". In South Dakota, with 
fewer "fringe" candidates, he had a 
greater chance of catching the media's 
attention. Besides, he told me, he had 
made mistakes in New H ampshire, 
and even if he could not rectify them in 
South Dakota, he certainly could in 
time for the New J ersey primary- the 
nation's last. In New J ersey, he would 
try to speak at the universities as early 
as possible. 
H e hoped to interest 
students enough to aid his campaign. 

I recalled what he had told me in our 
original conversation: "If you could tell 
me right now, if you rould tell me 'Mr. 
Zucker, you can have your ch01ce, 
would you want the housing crisis 
solved or would you want the Presi-
dency - you can'l have both, Mr. 
Zucker-what would you want?"' His 
voice dropped. "I would want the 
housing crisis solved." H e hoped his 
candidacy might raise interest in the 
book he was writing about housing and 
the free enterprise system, tentatively 
titled Swindle. After New H ampshire, 
he suggested, "people listen to you 
more carefully if you have been a 
Presidential candidate." 

Although he is making plans beyond 
the election, Irwin Zucker thinks he still 
has an outside chan(T to gain the 
nomination, if only because it is up for 
grabs. "None of the seven dwarves will 
survive Atlanta," he said, referring to 
the Democratic convention later this 
summer. "Their mentality- the verbal 
spitballs they shoot at each other-
really makes them dwarves." 

I had seen Zucker in the World of 
Politics-he was a small blur over the 
edge, a cursory note at the end of an 
article on page 35. Not until I became 
aware of the Political Wilderness could 
I hear his voice. In the transition, I 
discovered the meaning of politics for 
Zucker. "The Senate has an ATTI-
TUDE!" he had written in a position 
paper; as a citizen, he feels betrayed by 
the World of Politics. The main 
problem with politics, he told me, is 
that it is "difficult to get people 
interested in what is after all their 
business-government." He wants to 
revise the political structure. 

Irwin Zucker believes he has only to 
bring politicians back to the ideals of 
H arry Truman and Adlai Stevenson, 
who respected the people. The people, 
he feels, arc waiting. "He marches to a 
d ifferent drummer," Martin Zucker, 
owner of Marty's Famous Chicken in 
Red Bank, N. J., told me while his 
brother was in transit to South Dakota. 
"I think of him as Don Quixote-very 
sincere." Indeed, Zucker's absolute 
faith in the political mechanism makes 
him resemble Truman less than Qui-
xote. I, too, want to see politics 
working for me. But though I feel 
neglected by the exclusive World of 
Politics, 
I 
cannot share 
Zucker's 
devotion to political solutions. The 
people do not seem poised for a major 
makeover of the body politic. 

Zucker's reliance on the World of 
Politics 
aacomplish 
his 
goals 
perplexes me. Regardless of whether 
his views of a "politics of respect" make 
him reactionary, nostalgic, or forward-
looking-labeling Zucker is, as the 
cliche goes, as easy as nailingjello to a 
tree- the people arc not respondmg. 
New 
H ampshire seemed proof 
enough. Yet merely dismissing Zucker 
as a nut is too facile. His sideshow is 
more interesting than the rest of the 
political circus, even if I cannot agree 
with all of his views. As his brother told 
me, "I don't approve or disapprove of 
what he does, but I have to look at the 
reality of the situation: People are 
laughing at him . . . . But he's not 
hurting anyone, and who knows, he 
may even be helping." Is his approach 
getting him any closer to his goals? 

Zucker told me before New Hamp-
shire, "I'm 55 years old- my life is 
kinda over ... and I feel, in a very 
conscientious way, that I want to 
spend (the rest of) my life improving 
conditions in this country, in par-
ticular, solving the housing crisis." 

Lyndon LaRouche, who picked up 
2307 votes in the 1980 primary, 
garnered oniy 188 votes this time 
around, almost nine times Zucker's 
figure. 
The 
people dismissed 
LaRouche from the World of Politics 
after they had admitted him; Zucker 
has not had the chance to enter. "I told 
a newsman what I told you about 
housing," Zucker related after the 
primary, "and he just shrugged:" 

Zucker will probably never reach the 
World of Politics. But by his de-
finition, he does not belong there, 
precisely because it 
violates his 
conception of politics: It excludes 
grassroots perspectives. Ultimately, we 
share the cost of Zucker's Catch-22. As 
we glance through the glass towards 
the World of Politics, we overlook 
another, vital world, the Political 
Wilderness. Zucker has something to 
say, but we require him to enter the 
World of Politics before we will bother 
to listen to him. Until we recast our 
thinking, Zucker will remain ignored, 
preaching alone in the W ilderness . 


**Title: To get a taxi permit, new ideas, good equipment, and adequate insurance are not enough.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To get a taxi permit, 
new ideas, good 
equipment, and 
adequate insurance 
are not enough. 
~~------....~~~ 
Richard Spear leans forward and 
thumps the table. "If I don't get my 
three permits this time," he says, 
jabbing the air with his finger, "I'm 
going to hire a fancy New York lawyer, 
an antitrust lawyer, even if I have to 
spend my last penny. I'll sue the 
1).0 
· 
infederalcourt." 
~'iK1~~ -Havcn 
weekly lease but own and maintain 
their own cars. Although Metro Taxi 
provides dispatching, its drivers must 
compete against one another for the 
most lucrative calls while ignoring 
other customers. According to Spear, 
smaller operations could improve 
public service 
without 
directly 
comP.eting with Metro Taxi. "I'll stop 
cabi, that's all I wan " he saY.s,


reluctance, will approve any of ,he new 
applications. 
To get a taxi permit, new ideas, 
good equipment, and adequate in-
surance are not enough. Applicants 
must establish at a D.O.T. hearing 
"the public need and convenience" 
served by their intended enterprise, 
their own business competence, and 
the 
financial 
plausibility of their 
proposal. Why make the application 
process so involved? "Entry to the 
market should be limited," John Riley 
of the D.O.T. explains, "so that those 
who hold authority, if they're per-
forming satisfactorily, should have a 
viable 
operation." 
Public Transit 
R egulatory Supervisor Robert 
Cumpstone agrees. "If tlw authori-
zation of new 
opt> rat ions 
would 
displace adequate-" he pauses, "or 
fairly adequate-service, we would 
seriously reconsider the consequences 
o f issuing that authority." Both men 
believe that the D.O.T. has an obli-
gation to protect the market for 
authorized carriers. "It's in the interest 
of public service and of public safety," 
Riley says, pointing out that a taxicab 
company is bound by license to pro-
vide a public service 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week. Metro Taxi serves 
nearly 700,000 people each year. 
Before the D.O.T. makes a 
new 
authorization, it must consider how 
that action 
might jeopardize 
market. R iley warns that any com-
promises may result 
in unstable 
finances, marginal service, and the 
concomitant hazards of speeding 
drivers, ~ n safe cars, and rate abuses . 
• !; 
A hearing determines what con-
stitutes damage 
to 
market. 
Cumpstone estimates a healthy margin 
of earnings to be 15 cents on every 
dollar. A drop to ten cents on every 
dollar due to competition, he admits, 
would not be tragic. Cumpstone main-
tains that the D.O.T. would be more 
likely to issue permits "if existing 
service is Jess than the public would 
expect." 
"I'd like to take Bob Cumpstone to 
the train station on a Friday night," 
Gerry Walthall says, tapping a pile of 
papers. 
Walthall owns Heritage 
Livery, a Branford-based limousine 
service. Last March he applied for ten 
New Haven permits, but unlike Spear, 
he is not an authorized carrier in the 
city so he faces tougher pr;ospects. 
Walthall thinks that New Haven's taxi 
problems are endemic to Metro's 
"archaic" organization. He leans over 
to search his briefcase 
for more 
evidence, 
setzmg brochures about 
cellular telephones, stock ownership 
programs, and English limousines. 
Walthall feels persecuted. The D.O.T. 
has indicted him for servicing New 
Haven without a permit. Given the 
chance, he feels he can solve the taxi 
problem. All that stops him, he claims, 
stacking his brochures, is the D.O.T. 
Doug Vine, owner of Branford Cab, 
says that on rainy days he gets nearly 
15 calls an hour from New Haven. "I 
have to turn them away," he says. Vine 
has applied for five New H aven vehicle 
permits. Meanwhile he refers his New 
H aven calls to Spear. "The D .O.T . 
has been neglectful of the public need 
X I 
and convenit·nn·." Spear ""Y"· "Ev<'ry 
night, I'm the only cab at the tram 
station lot· the II :08, and the I :OR. and 
the 2:23, and the 3:37. It's so had 
that gypsy cabs are coming in." Gypsy 
cabs are uninsured, unauthorized cars. 
"Someone in the D.O.T. is harboring 
the monopoly. Why else would they 
deny the public of New Haven the 
service it needs?" Riley counters that 
the D.O. T. does not deny the public 
anything. The D.O. T. does not have 
the resou rces to ensure adequate 
service from permit holders across the 
state, 
but 
it 
does 
investigate 
complaints. 
The independents 
believe 
D.O.T. takes "public interest" to mean 
"monopoly." Historically, the D.O.T. 
has had a no-win situation in New 
Haven. In 1979 Yellow Cab, with only 
eight cars on the road, went bankrupt. 
T he D.O.T. refused permits to appli-
cants it judged to be insufficiently 
experienced and financed; instead, it 
allowed Yellow Cab to come out of 
bankruptcy under new ownership. The 
D.O.T. sought to safeguard public 
service. It feared that any attempts it 
made to introduce a long-range solu-
tion through other carriers would 
result in crisis if they failed. Riley 
accepts that Yellow Cab's service was 
not adequate, but no competitor had 
the means to step in and take over their 
volume of business. Cumpstone argues 
that the decision to rescue Yellow Cab, 
although 
"a spotty proposition," 
allowed New Haven five years of rela-
tive stability and "fairly adequate, 
while not tremendous, service." 
Thl' New .Journal/:\bn;h 4. tQ88 17


**Title: As long as Metro Taxi owns almost all the taxi permits in New Haven, others must wait to take the driver's seat.**
**Page number(s): 18**

As long as Metro Taxi owns almost all the taxi permits in New Haven, 
others must wait to take the driver's seat. 
After Yellow Cab reorganized, the 
company remained in bad shape. Joe 
McFarland, owner of Yellow Cab, 
successfully opposed any new author· 
izations. 
Spear 
recalls 
a 
D.O.T. 
hearing for Branford Cab in August of 
1986 in which McFarland testified that 
Yellow Cab earned only $50,000 after 
taxes and that the introductiqn of even 
one more permit in New Haven would 
bankrupt him. The D.O.T. allowed no 
independent carrier to start in New 
Haven on the grounds that before it 
developed 
resources 
and 
market to compete, Yellow Cab would 
collapse, leaving the 
city with 
insufficient service. 
The D.O.T. continues to assume 
that by guaranteeing the market for 
the city's largest permit holder, it 
protects the public interest. Metro 
Taxi enjoys almost exclusive rights to 
Hamden, Woodbridge, New Haven, 
and North, East, and West Haven. 
But Yellow Cab failed under sim;Jar 
circumstances. With many of Yellow 
Cab's problems in organization and 
work force, Metro Taxi could also fail 
to supply adequate service and decent 
work conditions, especially if the 
D.O.T. shuts out competition. But the 
D.O.T. protects markets for author-
ized carriers less as a 
matter of 
principle than of expediency. In New 
Haven, change is risky. The D.O.T. 
does not concern itself with the small 
operators who feel slighted. "What 
about my business, my benefit?" Spear 
asks. "I'm a proven operator. I'm 
authorized. And I need these new cabs 
to protect my own business." 
The independents believe that the 
D.O.T. needs a firsthand look at New 
Haven. In the past, the D.O.T. has 
missed overt signs of a failing system 
because of its distance. For example, 
Yellow Cab had only 18 cars running 
on its last day of service. None of the 
drivers or dispatchers knew Metro 
Taxi would take over the next day. 
However, according to D. 0. T. re· 
cords, Yellow Cab had 70 registered 
vehicles, 
which 
Cumpstone says, 
"could have 
been 
physically 
mobilized." The D.O.T. can revoke 
permits for unregistered, unopera· 
tiona) vehicles, 
but only after a 
complaint has been filed and three 
years have passed. Riley comments 
that even during the last days of Yellow 
Cab, "surprisingly" few complaints 
reached the D.O.T. in Wethersfield. 
Spear accuses Riley of suppressing 
hundreds of letters. "None of those 
guys live in New Haven," Spear 
argues. "I know New Haven. They've 
hardly even seen it." 
Riley explains that the D.O.T. 
recognizes the problems caused by its 
isolation from New Haven and has 
taken steps toward a remedy. It plans 
to hold a joint public hearing in New 
Haven by late March. Spear, Walt· 
hall, and Vine have filed for 18 new 
taxi 
permits among them. 
The 
attorney general's office confirmed the 
legality of a joint hearing two weeks 
ago. Riley claims it will take less than a 
month to organize. 
The D.O.T. decided to hold the 
hearing in New Haven to get public 
input and to end complaints about the 
Wethersfield location. "We'll see how 


**Title: New Haven's Taxi Service**
**Author: Andrew Cohen**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
" . 
In New Haven, 
change is risky. T he 
D .O.T. does not 
concern itself with the 
small operators . 
many cars Metro's got on the road that 
day," Cumpstonc says. Ir the D.O.T. 
is to change New Haven's cab service, 
he stresses that the public testimony 
solicited at the hearing has to be 
convincing. "We've got to get these 
guys to see what's going on here," 
Spear says. 

T he 
hearing might bring the 
D.O.T. closer to the needs of the New 
Haven public, but only temporarily. It 
cannot sustain that contact. While the 
D.O.T. approves the equipment of all 
carriers, the Motor Vehicle Bureau 
must inspect it every six months. The 
lack of supervision makes for some 
disturbing stories. Last July, a foreign 
summer student paid S70 to get from 
Connecticut Limo to Silliman College. 
Some of the independents tell of the 
difficulty of driving the inspected 
vehicles when they were employees of 
Yellow Cab. "Yellow's cars were in 
deplorable condition," Woods says. He 
recalls never being able to find a cab 
with seat belts. Walthall remembers 
one day when every one of the five cars 
he drove broke down. On one occa-
sion, Vine pulled into the depot and 
floored the brakes. A tire fell ofT the 
cab. "I walked out of there that day," 
he says, "and never went back. Never 
in my four years there did I see an 
inspector come look at the cars." Riley 
shrugs ofT the problem. "The Motor 
Vehicle Bureau is supposed to inspect 
every six months. But they never do. 
They simply don't have the personnel, 
12 or 14 inspectors, I think, for all th<.· 
taxis, buses, and livery cars in the stall'. 
In comparison to Yellow Cab, 
Woods observes, "Metro seems to 
glitter." Metro Taxi's failings, as well 
as its successes, have an important 
bearing on the March hearing. Metro 
has increased its fleet to 70 cars. The 
expansion of one authorized carrier 
and the arrival of two new ones would 
therefore not endanger its position. 
Still, says Riley, if the authorized 
carriers in a region can show that new 
operations "demonstrably affect their 
own interests and can testify as to their 
vehicle earnings, we have to listen." If 
the service in New Haven proves in-
adequate 
for 
the 
public's 
needs, 
however, the hearing could be a 
watershed. Many of the independents, 
Walthall 
and Wood s 
particularly, 
believe that Metro Taxi's service is 
poor 
and that its organization 
guarantees a repeat of the Yellow Cab 
nightmare. 

Metro drivers pay a weekly lease for 
administrative services-a meter, a 
permit, and dispatching. Since the 
drivers are independent subcontractors 
and own their own cars, Metro does 
not worry about insurance, worker's 
11 
compensation, accident liability, or 
maintenance. "Metro has put more 
good cabs on the road this way, and I 
respect that," Vine says. "But that's 
about all, and it won't last. Already I'm 
seeing broken 
1 windows covered with 
tape and dented fenders. Almost all the 
people are the same, too-drivers, 
dispatchers, all from Yellow Cab." The 
advantage of the weekly lease, Walt-
hall explains, is that "it cleans out those 
guys who can't hold on to money long 
enough to pay at the end of a week." It 
can, 
however , 
put an 
excessive 
financial strain on the driverS- When 
Metro Taxi's radio broke down over a 
weekend, drivers had no effective 
dispatching. Meeting the lease at 
week's end became a serious problem 
for many. Fourteen-hour shifts are 
" 
common; drivers no longer get the 
limited benefits they had when they 
were unionized under Yellow Cab. 
Vine is not surprised that Metro Taxi 
drivers are "dropping leases like 
crazy." On top of the cost of gas, 
maintenance, and lease, they make a 
$75 payment toward car ownership. 
"They're paying 18 percent interest on 
their cars," Walthall says. "Most of 
them don't have the credit to get a 
better deal." 

Woods and Walthall single out the 
dispatch 
system 
as Metro Taxi's 
biggest problem. Drivers hear each 
other's dispatches. With no incentive to 
take a call or to complete the one they 
have taken, they race one another to r 
the attractive jobs and ignore the 
others. 
Walthall details 
how dis· 
patchers fabricate "dead" calls to divert 
new drivers and position their .friends 
near lucrative 
p ick-ups. 
Woods' 
solution d raws from proven systems. 
"The police use a professional dispatch 
system," Woods says. "You shouldn't 
have some d river who's lost his license 
in that dispatch seat. You should get 
someone who doesn't know the cab-
bies." Both men think that private, 
dependable d ispatches could be made 
over a system of cellular telephones. 
Cen tralized radio dispatch, waiting 
lists, and other innovations adapted 
fro m the livery business could smooth 
operations. 

W oods' own success story demon-
strates how within certain limits the 
D .O.T.'s system can work. Three 
years ago, Woods applied for and 
received three New ·H aven permits for 
C a rolyn's Checker Cab. The company 
provides a different kind of service: 
dependable, quick, and by appoint-
ment only. Woods showed that his 
alternative did not directly compete 
with Yellow Cab, and he overcame the 
difficulty of proving that he would 
serve the public need and convenience. 
In his hearing, the D.O.T. accepted 
the testimon y of a New H aven woman 
who relied on taxis to transport her to 
and from the hospital for therapy. H er 
portable oxygen supply could sustain 
, 
4 
her for two hours. She argued that she 
could not continue to stake her life on 
Yellow Cab's reliability. 

The u pcoming hearing will deter-
mine whether th ree small carriers can 
gain significant access to the New 
Haven market, but a real break-
through seems unlikely. Cumpstone 
says that if New Haven can support 
two major carriers, as do H artford and 
New London, in theory the D .O.T. 
has no reason to protect Metro Taxi. 
Opportunities in New Haven, how-
ever, are limited. "I can't see anything 
more than four or five permits getting 
by without quite a bit of justification," 
Riley says. Spear sees that limit 
working against the public interest. 
"With a little bit of competition, Metro 
m ight clean up its act." 


**Title: Serving Tradition**
**Author: Cynthia Cameros**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Serving Tradition 
Cynthia Cameros 
Fall, not spring, is courting season at 
Yale Law School. Hundreds of re-
cruiters from private law firms visit the 
school and ply third-year students with 
lunch at the Park Plaza. Some provide 
airfare to the firm and a night's stay at 
one of the city's best hotels. For 
students interested in working in the 
public sector, getting even an inter-
view can prove difficult. Public interest 
organizations rarely can afford to send 
a recruiter. If one does come, the 
representative and students typically 
gather in a spare room for a brown bag 
lunch. 

Since the 1920's, Yale Law School 
has had a reputation for promoting 
public service. As proponents of legal 
realism, faculty members considered 
law in terms of its social consequences. 
This concern prompted several pro-
fessors to stop teaching law and instead 
to wield it in the New Deal admini-
stration. Although some law students 
call the reputation a thing of the past, 
Associate Dean of the Law School 
Stephen Yandle argues, "Yale Law 
School is recognized as a spawning 
ground 
for 
lawyers 
who commit 
themselves full- or part-time to public 
interest law." Now, 
Law School 
administrators worry that the charms 
of private firms will outshine those of 
the public sector. The Law School has 
instituted several programs to en-
courage students with an interest in 
public service. So far, the programs 
have had little effect. 

Law students' interest in govern-
ment and public interest law has 
diminished since the 1970's. In 1971, 
almost a quarter of the graduates 
entered the public sector. Fifteen years 
later, the percentage had dropped to 
six; Yale trailed the national average 
by ten percent. Private firms, mean-
while, 
have 
attracted 
Yale 
law 
graduates. Forty percent opted for a 
private law career in 1971. Students' 
interest peaked in 1983, when 57 
percent of law students took jobs at 
private firms. And last year, 42 
percent chose this path. The private 
sector 
percentages exclude 
those 
pursuing judicial clerkships, which 
have steadily grown more popular and 
often provide stepping stones to a ,. 
corporate career. 

Rising salaries in private law firms 
have attracted students while public 
interest organizations have failed to 
match their pace. According tb Yan-
dle, before the 1970's, public and
private sector salaries could compete. 
Today, a starting salary in public 
interest runs $21,792, 
while new 
associate lawyers at Cravath, Swaine 
and Moore earn $71,000-the highest 
starting salary at a private firm. 

Even reform-minded lawyers have 
entered the private sector. 
David 
Huebner (LAW '86) had found his 
ideal job at the Center for Law as 
Public Interest, representing clients in 
environmental and anti-fraud cases. 
The salary was low, but enough to live 
on. After 18 months the Center ran out 
of funding for him. Because of his 
pressing loan payments, 
Huebner 
joined a medium-sized private firm 
rather than search for another public 
interest job. There, he feels less 
motivated. "I prefer to work for the 
victim," he says. 

Academic loans force many Yale 
students to choose private firms. 
Fifteen years ago a student's budget 
averaged $5750. This year, tuition, 
books, and living expenses add up to 
$20,030. As a result, most students tap 
a variety of federal loans to underwrite 
their educational expenses. The 
average debt, $28,000, exceeds most 
starting salaries in the public sector. 
Ten percent of Yale Law School 
graduates owe over $37,000 in loans. 

Recognizing the financial dilemma 
graduates face in the public sector, the 
Law School established several 
programs to aid students leaning in 
that direction. It offers fellowships to 
subsidize public sector jobs over the 
summer. In addition, law students 
fund their own · summer programs. 
Together the two programs sponsor 
over 50 students every summer. But 
before the institution of PICA in 1985, 
students lacked the longterm aid to 
help launch them into a public service 
career. The Public Interest Careers 
Assistance program will forgive a law 
student's loan debt after eight to ten 
years of public sector work. Yale 
lagged behind most major law schools, 
including Harvard and Northwestern, 
in developing such a program. 

When Dean of the Law School 
Harry Wellington raised the idea of 
loan forgiveness in 1982, he received a 
hostile reception at the provost's office. 
President Bartlett Giamatti, Provost 
William Brainard, and Yale Cor-
poration members rejected the 
proposal despite the Law School's 
strong support and the 
financial 
backing of alumni. 
The admini-
stration, faculty, and students fought 
for loan forgiveness. The new Law 
School Dean, Guido Calabresi , 
threatened to quit if the program were 
not instituted. When the Corporation 
rejected PICA, Calabresi recalls, "I 
told the provost that I could not accept 
that. I would not have stayed on as 
dean." On a 
separate front, law 
students wrote letters urging Cor-
poration members to approve the loan 
forgiveness program. 

In 1985 they finally did. But the 
plan was unreasonable, requiring 
students to stay in the public sector up 
to 20 consecutive years. When Benno 
Schmidt, Jr. , the former dean of 
Columbia Law School, became Yale's 
president, he liberalized the plan. 
Bypassing the Corporation, he drafted 
a ten-year schedule for loan forgive-
ness. Financial backing comes from 
the annual incomes of the Jus tin T. 
Golenbock Memorial Fund and the 
Rita C. Davidson Memorial Fund, 
alumni 
funds 
earmarked 
the 
program. Not surprised by the strong 
alumni support, Yandle says, "The 
alumni are in tune with the spirit of 
Yale Law School. In their minds a 
degree from Yale Law School carries 
with it a public obligation." 

To enter the PICA program, grad-
uates must earn below $40,000 in 
either a public interest position or in a 
local, state, or federal government job. 
Students who graduated before the 
program's adoption still can apply. 
Yandle is considering whether students 
with judicial clerkships, now excluded 
from the program, should qualify. So 
far, 
aid office 
has 
accepted 19 students. 

Currently an applicant for loan 
forgiveness, Lisa Stansky (LAW '89) 
works as a staff attorney for the New 
Orleans Legal Assistance Corporation, 
far from the traditional enclaves of her 
classmates in New York City and 
Washington, D.C. The gap is not only 
geographical. Of her brush with the 
corporate world, she says, "I in-
terviewed with some firms but felt that 
I wouldn't fit in, because I wouldn't be 
able to do the work I wanted to do. 
The interviewers saw that I would have 
qualms representing their clients and 
asked me what I was doing there." Her 
current job enables her to concentrate 
on a major concern of hers-legal 
problems of the poor. In exchange for 
work she enjoys, Stansky does her own 
secretarial 
work. 
She will 
make 
$18,500 this year. 

Stansky presently owes $38,950 in 
loans from her law and undergraduate 
education. For the first two years of the 
program, PICA will lend her enough 
money to cover her educational pay-
ments. In return, she must contribute 
a percentage of her annual income. 
This year she will owe $1275. After 
three years, the Law School will begin 
to pay off her debt, expecting only her 
personal income contribution. Unless 
Stansky leaves public interest before 
the ten years of the program are up, 
PICA will pay off the rest of her loans. 

Even with the PICA program, how-
ever, the percentage of Yale students 
choosing the public sector has not 
increased 
significantly. 
The 
percentage doubled after the first year 
of the program, from four to eight 
percent, but numbers have fallen in 
the past two years. According to Tracy 
Sivitz (LAW '88), one of the students 
who campaigned for PICA, the pro-
gram offers only a weak incentive to 
enter public service law. "Loan 
deferral is just enabling you to pay 
rent, pay for gas, and clothe yourself," 
she says. Yandle admits that the 
percentages will stay the same until 
public sector salaries become more 
competitive with the private sector. 

To reconcile financial and altruistic 
goals, graduates explore other paths to 
public service. Some graduates per-
form pro bono work as part of the jobs in 
private firms. Others plan to serve the 
public in a government or justice


**Title:  Why Yale Law Students Shun Public Service**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
, "' 
Today, a starting 
salary in public 
interest runs $21,792, 
while new associate 
lawyers at Cravath, 
Swaine and Moore 
earn $71,000. 
position after paying off their debts 
through a lucrative job in corporate 
law. Steve Fazman (LAW '87), an 
associate 
lawyer at 
Paul, 
Weiss, 
Rifkind, 
Wharton and Garrison, 
thinks that the good reputation of his 
firm might carry more weight than a 
public interest group in gaining him a 
government job. 
Some point 
to 
Arthur Liman (LAW '57), a corporate 
lawyer who headed the congressional 
Iran-Contra hearings, to show that a 
private law career and public service 
need not be mutually exclusive .. 
The failure of Yale students to turn 
to the public sector reflects a growing 
national problem. The most recent 
convention of the American Asso-
ciation of Law Schools focused on the 
tension between high salaries and 
social obligation. The Law School feels 
added pressure to nudge its students 
toward public service: Its pride is at 
stake. Yandle says, "Yale's public 
interest reputation is an integral part of 
the self-image of the school." But the 
deck is stacked against efforts to 
·maintain that reputation. Every year 
at the October Job Fair, about 20 
public sector groups vie with 420 
private firms for Yale law students' 
attention . 
• 
Cynthia Cameros, a sophomore in Ezra 
Stiles, is on the staff of TN]. 


**Title: Overdue Notice**
**Author: Julie Hantman**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

L ynn Festa (SM ' 90) wonders why she earns Level One pay for Level 
Two work. 
Overdue Notice 
Julie Hantman 
A student dining hall worker leans 
against a wet counter to pull in another 
tray. This one is loaded with a plate of 
grayish beef bourgignon, wadded nap-
kms. oranQ;e peels, and three Rlasses 
used as ashtrays. Meanwhile, behind 
the serving line, another student worker 
scoops peas on10 a plate and fields 
complaints about the food. 
Not even eight dollars an hour can 
convince some students to work in the 
dining halls. Those on financial aid, 
paying rent, or in need of spending 
money look to a number of other cam-
pus jobs. Over 350 undergraduates 
and graduates have chosen Yale's 
library system, the University's largest 
student employer. Flexible working 
hours, the chance to get schoolwork 
done at a desk position, and even the 
opportunity to learn about library 
science attract 
students. 
Although 
some tasks are tedious, there are no 
chicken bones. 
In exchange for these conveniences, 
student library workers forego the 
protection of a union. Student dining 
hall workers have been part of Local 
35- the maintenance and dining hall 
workers' union-since 
1977. The 
union ensured that students' hours 
would not be cut from one semester to 
the next and that a year's leave of 
absence would not affect their pay. In 
the most recent contract with Yale, 
26 The New Journal/March 4. 1988 
students won paid time to change into 
uniform and first crack at summer 
custodial jobs. Their minimum wage 
jumped from $6.71 to $7.88. Student 
dining hall workers also enjoy the 
protection of job descriptions and 
grievance procedures. 
Student library workers, however, 
are barred from Local 34, the clerical 
and technical worker's union, formed 
in 1984. Organizing full-time workers 
alone 
took 
five 
years of intense 
struggle. Michael Boyle, Local 34 
union organizer, explains that students 
were not included in the organizing 
drive in order to expedite the process. 
"There was a desire to get the union 
election quickly. A common manage-
ment strategy is to stall, especially over 
who's in and who's not. We didn't 
stalL" Since then, the union has had 
little time or inclination to organize 
student library workers. Constituting 
half of the library staff, students could 
augment union strength. But every 
four years, a generation of students 
comes and goes. The difficulty in 
unionizing transient workers and the 
fear that students' concerns would skew 
the permanent workers' goals also ex-
plain their exclusion. 
T hese students now face the ad-
m m lstration 
alone. 
In 
1985, 
a 
committee headed by the director of 
studen t 
employment standardized 
student jobs. Up to this point, there 
were myriad student job titles, cor-
responding to various wages. The 
committee found enough similarities 
among student jobs to channel them 
into three levels, setting wages between 
$4.85 and $6.00, and allowing for a 
yearly raise of 15 cents. But the com-
mittee neither provided a written 
description of these three levels, nor 
indicated how much they pay. 
With no guidelines, the library's 
personnel office interpreted the 
standardization 
for 
itself. 
Before 
standardization, there were about 20 
diffe~ ~nt student library jobs. Ac-
cording to Maureen Sullivan, director 
of Library Personnel, "We had some 
students who were being paid more 
than other studen ts doing the same 
level of work." The majority of the jobs 
paid between $4.65 and $5.23. These 
were channeled into Level One, at the 
new minimum of $4.85. "This was our 
effort to bring things all together with 
fewer titles and to assure that we were 
paying the students fairly," Sullivan 
says. But although the wages of some 
positions rose, most fell. To prevent 
individual workers from suffering a 
decrease, the library established a 
grandfather clause, maintaining wages 
for students· who had been earning 
more than $4.85. 
Though the administration at-
tempted to be fair by instituting the 
grandfather clause, some students feel 
that it has actually contributed to the 
injustice. One night in September, 
Mark Harmon (GRD '91) was work-
ing behind the desk at Kline Science 
Library. While chatting, he discovered 
that his co-worker earned 38 cents 
more per hour for doing the same 
work. Outraged, he filed a grievance 
through the Provost Procedure for 
Student Complaints. 
But Provost 
William Nordhaus rejected it, ex-
plaining that student wage levels are 
administrative decisions and 
not 
subject to review through student 
complaint procedures. 
In addition to unstable wages and no 
grievance procedures, student library 
workers have no sound job d.escrip-
tions. 
Cross Campus Library 



**Title:  Student Library Workers: Exploitation or Fair Pay?**
**Page number(s): 27**

(CCL), Level One students are meant 
to perform circulation duties under 
direct supervision. There is no written 
job description for Level Two. Accord-
ing to Sue Crockford-Peters, acting 
department head of CCL, Level Two 
workers should divide 
their time 
between lead duty- supervising other 
students-and computer work. Crock-
ford-Peters says, "We know which 
responsibilities fall into which 
categories." 
But Lynn Festa's (SM '90) exper-
ience shows that the categories are not 
•SO clear. Last semester. she worked as 
a "lead" two nights a week, at Level One 
pay. Only one worker on a shift re-
ceives Level Two pay. A lead super-
vises all students on a shift, however, 
including those at Level Two, and 
often even 
clerical 
and 
technical 
workers (C&T's). The library admini-
stration seems 
recognize 
the 
increased 
responsibility 
by 
calling 
students "leads," but does not · raise 
them to Level Two pay of $5.50 per 
hour. 
Students' increased 
role as 
supervisors reflects the library system's 
difficulty in attracting full-time 
employees. Library jobs for these 
workers are among the lowest paying 
jobs on campus. According to the 
1 f union steward at Sterling, 
Lynn 
Catalano, the root problem is that 
"the library 
is 
basically 
cheap." 
Jeff Campbell (PC '88) would agree. 
Last semester, he worked full time at 
CCL: He spent most of his time filling 
the vacant nighttime supervisor posi-
tion, which normally pays $10.00 per 
hour, but for which he earned $6.00. 
During the rest of his time he pro-
cessed course lists. Campbell estimates 
he accrued 70 to 80 hours in overtime. 
To date he has not received the $200 
owed him. In fact, no student who has 
worked over 40 hours has received the 
overtime legally due them. "The ra-
tionale is that they can always hire 
more students," Campbell says. "But 
there is only a handful of students who 
are trained to do these things. Then 
they say the budget is too tight and 
pretend as if the students are not worth 
the overtime." Although working with 
six C&T's, Campbell processed over 
40 percent of last semester's 500 
reserve course lists. 
Students at CCL are responsible for 
a great deal of the work. Some claim 
that they easily exceed the required 
rate of shelving- one truckload of 
books per hour- while many of their 
C&T co-workers shelve below this 
rate. Part of the problem seems un-
solvable; students working short shifts 
at a boring job will compensate by 
working faster. Sullivan recognizes this 
dilemma. "Most of the students who 
work in the library are hard workers. I 
think it's 
probably part of their 
nature." But their attention is not so 
focused on the stacks that they do not 
notice if a higher-paid C&T beside 
them is shelving half a truck per hour. 
Rob Coleman (DC '89) says, "You feel 
stupid for working harder than people 
who make more than you do." Many 
students start out shelving quickly but 
then slow down. "You don't get an 
extra star for shelving a truck a 
minute," one freshman says. 
In the Sterling reference depart-
ment, four students have been working 
on the Update Project to computerize 
Yale's card cataloguing system. They 
learned to use two computer data-
bases, two bibliography sources, and 
to verify bibliographic information. 
Among them, they needed to be fluent 
in three foreign languages. The stu-
dents take the project seriously, 
finding it a rewarding experience to 
work with the highly skilled reference 
librarians . 
Probably the 
most_ 
demanding and complex job in the 
library system, it pays Level One 
wages. 
Sarah 
Petit (DC '88), 
member of the Update team, says, "I 
ask myself, is it worth all the hours I 
spend there? Five dollars is just not 
adequate. 
I'm 
performing an 
invaluable service." 
For some, library wages create fi-
nancial difficulties, but most simply 
feel exploited. Lucinda Finley, asso-
ciate professor of labor law at Yale Law 
School, says, "There are few legal 
protections in the United States for 
non-unionized labor . . . Practically 
speaking, as long as the University has 
other students wanting jobs, they can 
keep job tasks the same and pay a 
lower wage." But since the fall of 1986, 
applications for student library jobs 
have dwindled. Recognizing this prob-
lem, Associate Provost Lloyd Suttle 
recently formed a committee to study 
problems at Student Employment. H e 
hopes to create a manual to explain 
what the three levels mean. As yet, 
no specific plans exist either to furnish 
job descriptions or to change the level 
system. The committee plans to review 
only the minimum wage. 
Student workers are skeptical. 
Rather than wait for the results of the 
committee, some are df'manding an 
annual 
increase in the minimum wage 
now. They have sent petitions to the 
administration and organized a work 
slowdown at CCL, shelving only as 
rapidly as they think their pay war-
rants. Feeling ignored by the admini-
stration, some see unionization as their 
only solution. But a union is no cure-
all. Many student dining hall workers 
feel like second-class citizens, ignored 
by union leaders. Though pleased with 
their high wages, they think that $17 
monthly dues are not justified. In light 
of such problems, some student library 
workers do not want 
to unionize. 
But for others, unionization may be 
the only alternative to the dishroom. 
Julie Hantman is a sophomore in Silliman. 
i: 
==-L 
M a u reen Sullivan b elieves 
th a t 
the job standa rdization attempted 
to be fair. 
The New journaVMarch 4, 1988 27 



**Title: Books/Jennifer Sachs**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Books/Jennifer Sachs 
Love Triangles 
The Psychology of Love 
edited by Robert}. Sternber.t? 
and 
Michael L. Barnes 
Yale University Press, 1988 
395 pages, $29. 95 
Spencer has just broken up with his 
girlfriend of three weeks, the best three 
weeks of his life. Night after night he 
lies awake in his room, tossing and 
turning. During the day he slouches 
morosely from class to class. He has 
stopped shaving and no longer brushes 
his teeth regularly. Finally, he breaks 
down and confesses to a friend: "Gosh, 
I handled that relationship poorly. 
Julie and I had such different expec-
tations. If only I could do it over 
again- I'd sit down with her and we'd 
a) draw little triangles to represent the 
dimensions of love, or b) draw little 
interlocking circles with pluses and 
minuses and boundaries of different 
thicknesses to represent our feelings 
toward each other. Or maybe we'd 
c) make really complex drawings, for 
which we'd need a score sheet to keep 
track of what all the horizontal and 
vertical lines and axes meant. I'm sure 
that would improve our understanding 
of one another, I just know it would." 
The millions of men and women in 
these tragic circumstances can relax. 
Although it may be too late forJulie 
and Spencer, The Psychology of Love,


28 The New Journal/ March 4, 1988 

edited by Robert Sternberg, Yale's 
IBM Professor of Psychology and 
Education, and Michael Barnes, a 
graduate student, offers 395 pages (less 
endnotes) of insight into that most 
painful human condition, love. Sixteen 
chapters by psychology professors, 
sociologists, and one psychotherapist 
attempt to define love in all of its 
incarnations, to explain how rela-
tionships work, and to represent them 
as a series of triangles, circles, and 
geometric configurations of inde-
terminate shape. In the end, no 
consensus on love's meaning emerges. 
Instead, Sternberg and Barnes present 
an overview of recent research into 
what they claim is a rapidly advancing 
field. 

The Psychology of Love contains three 
sections: "Global Theories of Love," 
"Theories of Romantic Love," and 
"Theories of Love and Relationship 
Maintenance." Individual chapters 
treat love as a biological imperative, a 
cultural construct, and, perhaps with 
Spencer in mind, a neurotic aber-
ration. The Psychology of Love works best 
as a scientific colloquy on the nature 
and meaning of love. Sternberg and 
Barnes have assembled a group of 
contentious scientists and an 
assortment of thought-provoking 
ideas. 

Some of the theories raised in The 
Psychology of Love might distract 
Spencer, or at least entertain him. One 
of the more intriguing experiments 
posits that love can be heightened, or 
even created,' using fear as a vehicle. 
Two researchers found that men ex-
pressed feelings of greater desire and 


--- Page 29 ---


passion after successfully navigating a 
treacherous bridge than did men who 
crossed a safer bridge. If Spencer 
cannot lure Julie onto the ledge of a 
b uilding or into the lair of a wild boar 
to regain her affection, he might try 
reading about the research of John 
Alan Lee. In a chapter on "Love-
Styles," Lee suggests that eight types of 
love exist, including "eros" (physically 
d emonstrated love), "storge" (un-
e m otional, 
quiet, 
dispassionate 
affection), 
and "mania" Uealous, 
insatiable, insecure emotion). Spencer 
could try to turn himself into a "ludic" 
lover, one to whom "sex is for fun, not 
for expressing commitment, and love 
is not the most important activity in 
life." Julie would become just a distant 
memory. 

Not all modern psychologists hold 
Lee's nonjudgmental view of love-
styles. Stanton Peele argues in "Fools 
for Love" that certain kinds of love 
deserve skepticism and even censure: 
"Among its other failures, psycho-
logical theory has come perilously close 
to 
labeling 
social 
individual 
pathology as love." Peele recommends 
treating romantic love as one would a 
dru g 
add iction- by substituting a 
more positive activity, such as reading 
a daily newspaper. 

Other researchers, however, impart 
a broad significance to feelings of deep


Peele recommends 
treating romantic love 
as one would a drug 
addiction." 

and dependent love. Phillip Shaver, 
C indy H azan, and Donna Bradshaw 
hypothesize in "Love as Attachment" 
that "love has always and everywhere 
existed as a biological potential." They 
compare romantic love to the emotions 
a nd needs experienced by human and 
primate in fants for their caregiving 
parents. "Love as Attachment" and 
"Fools for Love" create a fascinating 
dialectic. 

The divergent conclusions of these 
two sets of researchers stem only in 
part from their different techniques 
and emphases. Their argument ori-
ginates in a more fundamental dis-
crepancy: their understanding of love. 

The problem of loosely defined terms 
persists th roughou t The Psychology of 
Love. Peele discusses passionate love as 
an incapacitating experience. In "A 
Vision of Romantic Love," Nathaniel 
Branden 
calls 
it "a triumph of 
psychological maturity." Robert 
Sternberg, in "Triangulating Love," 
defines certain 
kinds of love 
as 
"fatuous" or "infatuated" but 
distinguishes "consummate love" as 
clearly superior. 

Each of these 
researchers reaches a similar con-
clusion about the nature of ideal 
love- but poor Spencer, who doesn't 
really want to buy the book or to read 
it carefully, will leaf frantically through 
the pages in search of a quick solution 
to his romantic woes and come up 
confused. In a book that purports to 
compare and contrast theories of love, 
clarity is essential. 

The Psychology qf Love also falters 
when 
its 
contributors attempt 
universalize their theories. 
Most 
contributors concede 
that 
their 
experiments and 
conclusions a re 
historicaJJy and 
cuhuraJJy limited. 
They also share a less acknowledged 
bias, that of heterosexual orientation. 
Only two researchers specifically 
include homosexual love in their work. 


--- Page 30 ---

Branden, describing the network of 
a 
complementary needs involved in "ro-
mantic love," omits the possibility of 
homosexuality. His list includes the 
following: "(T]he need to encounter, unite 
with, and live out vicariously our opposite-
gender possibilities: the need, in males, to 
find an embodiment in the world of the 
internal feminine; the need, in fe-
males, to find an embodiment in the 
world of the internal masculine." The 
section "Theories of Relationship and 
Love Maintenance" includes so many 
references to married couples that it is 
hard to miss the writers' drift: Love 
equals, or at least manifests itself 
correctly in, heterosexual marriage. 

David Buss' chapter "Love Acts: 
The Evolutionary Biology of Love" 
combines some of these omissions into 
a shoddy- this time sexist- theory. 
This chapter presents an example, 
albeit an exaggerated one, of the traps 
researchers can fall into when too eager 
to prove novel ideas. Buss hypothesizes 
that love, instead of being an attitude 
or a state of mind, manifests itself in a 
series of natural and common acts with 
the ultimate goal of reproduction. 
Males, Buss says, will search for 
"repFoductively valuable" females to 
increase 
their chances of having 
offspring. However, no overt signs of 
female fertility exist. Buss suggests that 
as a result, males typically look for 
"female age and health cues that signal 
reproductive capability- Youth, 
health, beauty, clear skin, smooth 
skin, lustrous hair, full lips, white 
teeth, lively gait." 

To prove his hypothesis, Buss con-
ducted experiments in which he asked 
respondents to select acts they thought 
were representative of "love." He 
found that men emphasized female 
physical appearance more than women 
did. Ignoring the vast array of cultural 
and social conditions that may have led 
men to consider physical appearance 
an important factor in selecting a 
mate, Buss offers this result up as proof 
of his hypothesis. 

If any of the other researchers ('rr, it 
is on the side of caution, preferring 

30 The New Journal/ March 4, !988 

oversimplified explanations of com-
mon sense attitudes toward love to 
more challenging theories. This is 
most evident when writers suggest 
diagnostic tools for improving love 
relationships. The value of drawing a 
diagram to represent an emotional 
state is that it allows the people 
involved to distance themselves from 
their emotions. Quite possibly some-
one might prefer drawing a triangle 
whose vertices represent deci-
sion/commitment, passion, and 
intimacy- as Sternberg suggests- to 
exploring 
these 
feelings 
outright. 
However, 
The 
Psychology of Love 

The Psychology of love 
demonstrates the ease with which 
definitions of all of these words can 
confuse even an experienced scientist. 
Asking a person in love to reduce love's 
complexities to a geometric shape can 
be dangerous, especially if that person 
already has trouble communicating 
effectively. 

Some of the other 
researchers 
acknowledge 
this difficulty and 
attempt to solve it with more intricate 
pictorial 
representations of love. 
Wendy Williams and Michael Barnes, 
in their chapter "Love Within Life," 
provide a model of a love relationship 
that includes an internal and an ex-
ternal world for each participant in the 
relationship, as weli as boundaries 
where these worlds intersect. The area 
of each space is important as well. The 
authors load each aspect of the model 
with an inordinate amount of infor-
mation- for example, in the "external 
world" they lump together family 
members, children, hobbies, and other 
interests. Still, Williams and Barnes 
concede in the end that "boundaries 
are more complex" than the ones they 
present. If even this complex and 
abstruse model forces major over-
simplification, it may not be worth the 
effort. 

attempt 
translate 
psychological theory into real life 
l produces a 
strained conflation of 
scientific jargon and 
informality. 
Plagued by the need to appeal to a 
wider readership, the authors often 
resort to trite cultural symbols that 
undercut their professionalism. 
"Indeed, the expression 'Don't leave 
home without it!' might be more 
important with reference to love than 
to one's American Express card .. . . ," 
Bernard Murstein concludes in his "A 
Taxonomy of Love." Another contri-
butor begins by stating, "A song by the 
Doobie Brothers asks where we would 
be now, without love. This question 
captures two key themes of this 
chapter." By depending on 
cliches, the authors undermine our 
estimation of their scientific analysis. 
On occasion, they also reveal them-
selves to be as silly as the cliches they 
use. In his 30-page article on "Love-
Styles," John Alan Lee devotes ten 
pages to complaining that the other 
researchers on the playground have 
not noticed 
him. "(T]here is 
no 
reference to my 1970-76 publications 
in Munro and Adams . . . . Dion and 
Dion [make] no reference to my work, 
even though I was teaching in another 
department of the same university." 
Disagreement among psychologists 
and sociologists is endemic to the 
discipline, 
but 
it 
should spawn 
productive inquiry rather than· feelings 
of injury. 



**Spencer's Lost Love**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
So in the end, we leave Spencer 
where we 
found 
him, 
desolately 
contemplating his lost love. Let us 
hope he has not paid $29.95 for The 
Psychology of Love just so he can win 
J ulie's heart again. Sternberg and 
Barnes' compilation provides insight 
into some aspects of love. T he book's 
preface, however, recalls the skep-
ticism of Senator William P roxmire 
about love psychologists. "I believe 
that 200 million Americans want to 
leave some things in life a mystery . . . 
and right at the top of the list of the 
things we don't want to know is why a 
man falls in love with a woman and 
vice versa," the Senator a rgued in 
1977. Proxmire can relax- he won't 
find the answer, if one exists, in The 
Psychology of Love . 


**New Journal Staff Announcements**
**Author: Not specified**

• 
j ennifer Sachs, a senior in Ezra Stiles, zs 
managing editor of TN]. 
Congratulations 
i The New journal is pleased to announce 
the 
elections of Mary 
C hen 
as 
Publisher and Martha Brant as Ed itor-
in-C hief. Mary joined the magazine in 
1987 and has served as P roduction 
Manager for the past year. Martha 
joined the magazine in 1986 and has 
served as Associate Editor this year. 
Mary and Martha will continue the 
leadership of graduating Publisher 
Carter Brooks and Editor-in-Chief 
J ames Bennet. 
Four additional 
members of TNJ's new Executive 
Board will also assume their offices: 
Managing Editors, Skye Wi lso~ and 
Peter Zusi, Designer,Jon Wertheimer, 
Photography Editor, Heidi Schulman 
and P roduction Manager, David K ing. 
• The incoming and outgoing Executive 
Boards planned and produced this issue 
of TN] together, 
and the new 
Executive 
Board will assume fu ll 
responsibility for the April issue. We 
congratulate them and wish them the 
best of luck. 



C:townH:t!JfiOiU 
283 CROWN ST. NEW HAVEN, CT. 624-4869 6:30AM-3PM.M·F 
ourse 
Materia 
r esumes, posters, 
table t ents, 
& whatno t 
- a t the same low price


149 York 8 to 5 Monday -Fri day 432- 2894 
Yale uick Co 
Center 
20 °/o off with 
student I.D. 
NEW HAYEN'S LARGEST 
SELECTIONS OF SCHOOL SUPPLIES 
Quick access to over 50,000 products 
including: 
computer supplies • office supplies 
computer f urniture • custom rubber stamps • stationery 
art/drafting materials• gifts 
cards • copying services 
only 3 blocks from the green 
534 State Street New Haven CT 
Mon-Fri. 8-5 
789·1414


J ACKSON-MARV I N HARDWARE 
established 1922 
Everything for your dorm or apartment 
~/ 
• Paints 
• Housewares 
• Building Supplies 
• Tools 
843 W halley Ave., New Haven (in W estville Village) 387-252 1

