Publication date: February 3, 1989
Volume: 2
Issue number:  (Not explicitly stated, but implied to be issue 1 based on context)


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Mary Chen
- Editor-in-Chief: Martha Brant
- Business Manager: Laura Smith
- Managing Editors: Skye Wilson, Peter Zusi, Kirk Semple
- Designer: Pamela Geismar
- Production Manager: David King
- Photography Editor: Heidi Schulman
- Account Manager: Jodi Lox
- Associate Editors: Cynthia Cameros, John Gill
- Associate Designer: Stephen Hooper
- Associate Photography Editor: John Kim
- Circulation Manager: Lynn Festa
- Subscription Manager: Malaika Amon
- Staff: Janet Chung, Ethan Cohen, Ruth Conniff, Jennifer Fleissner, Lisa Gluskin, Jeanne Frantz, David Greenberg, Julie Hantman, Hank Hsu, Motoko Rich, Margo Schlanger, Lisa Silverman, Jaeyong So, Stefanie Syman, Florence Williams, Jamie Workman
- Board Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennell III, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennell, Jr., Edward B. Bennell III, Blaire Bennell, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, James W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffry Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirkwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
About This Issue
NewsJournal
Between the Vines
Features


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 4**




<br/>

**Title: NewsJournal**
**Page number(s): 5**





**Title: Between the Vines**
**Page number(s): 8**





**Title: Features**
**Page number(s): 14**





**Title: Test of Faith**
**Author: Megan Chambers**
**Page number(s): (Not specified, but appears to begin around page 3)**


Horses fight crime . . . Books mark time . . . Campers enjoy sunshine 
Test of Faith 
Ben Born Again:r booldet ·can help you receive Christ through an easy-tojollow four-step 
plan. If you go to Potter's House Christian Center in Bridgeport, however, you will 
find that believing is far more complicated than you had irruJgined. By Megan Chambers



**Title: Old School Ties**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 20**


Old School Ties 
These days, the Turkish Bath and rarefied atmosphere of the Yale Club of New York 
draw more recent graduates than ever. Fresh out of college, some new members find the 
older, more traditional environment of the club app«Ziing- but others find it troublesome. 
By Peter Zusi



**Title: In The Rough**
**Author: Florence Williams**
**Page number(s): 26**


In The Rough 
Many of New Haven:r youths at risk have never been rock climbing, hiking, cr 
canoeing. The Wilderness School offers juvenile delinquents 20 days in the backwoqd.s of 
Connecticut to try these activities and to find a straighter path. By Florence Williams



**Title: A Dramatic Lead**
**Author: Margo Schlanger**
**Page number(s): (Not specified, but appears to be near the end of the provided text)**


A D ram atic Lead 
Since 1978, Dean Lloyd Richards has increased minority enrollment at the Yale Drama 
School and opened the stage of the Yale Rep to black thea/n. By Margo Schlanger


**Title: JOBS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
JOBS 
FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 
THE CONNECTICUT 
PUBLIC INTEREST & 
RESEARCH GROUP 
ConnPIRG is now expanding our 
staff. Work for CLEAN AIR, 
CLEAN WATER, and 
CONSUMER JUSTICE. Earn 
$175-275/wk. Full and part-time jobs 
available, career opportunities. 
Call Jill 785-0890


**Title: A Tight Reign**
**Author: Heidi McKee**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

News Journal 
A Tight Reign 
When violence erupted during a rap 
concert at the New Haven Coliseum a 
year-and-a-half ago, two of the city's 
mounted police officers, Sergeant Ed 
Clough and Officer Marvin Marable, 
.-ealized they would need help. They 
radioed two colleagues to assist them as 
4,000 fans .spilled into the streets. The 
50 foot-patrol officers on duty were 
unable to break up the throng, but 
riding side-by-side, the four horse 
patrolmen split and dispersed the 
crowd within five minutes. 
T his incident proved the effec-
tiveness of the New Haven Mounted 
Unit (NH MU), which was founded in 
1983 
to 
complement 
police 
The New Haven 
mounted police 
have to put up with 
city noises and 
dirty stalls. 
department's 
foot 
and car patrol 
divisions; the horse patrol was the first 
of its kind in Connecticut. At present, the 
unit consists of seven horses and six men 
and is based in a converted eight-car 
garage in Edgerton Park off of Whit-
ney Avenue. 
The horse unit provides a visibility 
and mobility that car and foot patrols 
lack. "A purse snatcher, seeing an 
officer on horseback, will think twice 
about committing a crime," explained 
Marable, the first policeman to join the 
NHMU. "Most of the kids run like 
deers out there, and without a horse I 
couldn't run them down." Horses also 
enable police to patrol parks and woods 
on thc;ir own. But in the city, if a 
criminal ducks into a building or takes 
off in a car, the mounted police will call 
for auto and foot assistance. 
Beyond their regular beats, the 
mounted police are indispensible for 
crowd control. Whenever the police 
department expects a large crowd, it 
sends the horses into action. Among 
other events, the NHMU patrols foot-
ball games at the Yale Bowl and 
concerts on the New Haven Green. 
Two mounted patrols were assigned to 
the Yale campus during the labor 
union strikes in 1984, and a horse 
patrol unit accompanied Governor 
Michael D ukakis at his Wooster Street 
rally last fall. 
This schedule tests the stamina and 
skills of horse and rider. Both must 
undergo a rigorous training program 
to join the unit. Officers in the police 
force may apply to the NHMU only 
after two years of regular duty. If 
accepted, they must learn skills such as 
maneuvering through rush hour traf-
fic and shooting at targets from the back 
of 
a 
cantering 
horse. 
Al-
though 
first 
members of 
the NHMU trained in New York, re-
cruits today complete most of their 
The New Journal/ February 3, 1989 5 

---

training in New Haven. 
The officers usually pass this course 
in two months, but their horses' 
training never ends. Conditioning for 
the horses begins on an obstacle course 
in Edgerton Park and continues in the 
city's quieter 
neighborhoods. 
The 
horses eventually 
patrol a 
beat 
downtown where they must confront 
the noises and distractions of the city. 
The NHMU, recognizing the strain 
put on the horses, continually monitors 
the fitness and health of its animals. 
But despite this care, some horses have 
become ill or uncontrollable. "Quite a 
few horses just aren't suited for life in 
the city," said Clough, the head of the 
division. "I don't take Appaloosas and 
Thoroughbreds anymore. They're all a 
little too crazy. I find we're having our 
best luck with Quarter Horses and 
Saddlebreds." 
Last October the NHMU had an 
opportunity to test its mettle in the fifth 
annual Police Equestrian Competition 
in Washington, D.C. The New Haven 
Police Department sent four officers 
and their horses to compete against 74 
other mounted police, including repre-
sentatives from the FBI, the U.S. 
Army, and the Secret Service, who 
rode the President's horses. In one 
series of tests, the riders had to keep 
their mounts within a 4 ft. by 8 ft. 
chalked rectangle while judges 
operated jackhammers and chainsaws, 
lit flares, and jumped out of sleeping 
bags. Competitors acquired penalty 
points if their horses shied beyond the 
rectangle's boundaries. New Haven's 
unit won second place behind the team 
from the National Park Service, which 
owns over 3,000 horses. 
On more typical days, NHMU offi-
. cers must clean the riding equipment, 
horses, and stables. "You really have to 
like horses. There's a lot of work 
involved and you spend a lot of time 
with them," explained Officer Robert 
Peryer. "There's no regrets in this 
barn." Peryer latched his horse's stall 
door and dragged away a full manure 
bucket. 
-Heidi McKee 
6 The New Journal/February 3, 1989 


**Title: On Reserve**
**Page number(s): 6**

On Reserve 
A student reading the Yale Daily News 
in the early part of the century may not 
have noticed the small announcements 
stating that "The Smartest Dressers are 
Wearing Monocles Now" and that 
Fatima Cigarettes are "The Secret of 
Good Batting." Yet he was sure to have 
seen the full-page advertisements for 
Whitlock's bookstore. One, addressed 
to the entering class of 1913, read, 
"Start Right. We Have All The Books 
You 
Need. 
Ask 
Any 
Upperclassman- He'll Direct You To Us. 
Although many Yalies who walk into 
Whitlock's for the first time are usually 
looking for Kinko's Copy Center loca-
ted next door, the bookstore once 
supplied textbooks for approximately 
90·percent of Yale's students. In 1900, 
Clifford Whitlock founded the store in 
a small brick building on the site of the 
Skull and Bones tomb. Its limited col-
lection left enough room for him to run 
a bicycle repair business. But by the 
First World War, the store's stock had 
grown to over 100,000 volumes, for-
cing Clifford to close the bicycle shop 
and concentrate on the book trade. 
"Perhaps [the community] found in my 
father some of those things that had 
been recommended in the infant 
colonies, such as the work ethic 'early 
to bed and early to rise."' suggests 
Clifford's son, Reverdy (YC '35). who 
For 50 years 
Reverdy Whitlock 
(YC '35) has sold 
rare and used 
books. 
has managed the store for over 50 
years. Clifford became popular with 
Yale students and faculty, and he often 
hosted games of chess and checkers 
lasting well into the night. 
When Reverdy took over the store 
in the Thirties, Whitlock's relationship 
with the University had begun to sour. 
Many students buying on credit were 
neglecting to pay their bills. As the 
problem worsened, Reverdy decided 
to stop stocking textbooks. 
He 
eventually broke off his business 
relations with Yale and moved the 
bookstore to its present site in two 
second-floor rooms on Broadway. 
Today, Whitlock's is smaller and .. 
quieter than it once was, specializing 
in antiquarian and used books. "We 
got more casual visitors when we were 
on the first floor," Reverdy says. 
"People aren't likely to come upstairs 
unless they have a genuine interest in 
books." Because many of Whitlock's 
customers are looking for 
rare 
volumes, Reverdy must hunt contin-
ually for additions to his collection. His 
quests often take him to Britain. 
During a 
recent search in Bath, 
Reverdy stumbled upon a 1666 edition 
of the London Almanac. It had belonged 
to the English diaristjohn Evelyn, who 
provided the best contemporary 
account of the Great Fire of London., 
Evelyn had made notes in the margins 
of the Almanac as he walked through 
the burning city. Reverdy bought the 
book for three pounds and later sold it 
to Harvard University, earning him-



**Title:  Reverdy's Rare Books**
**Author: Paul Taylor**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
self enough money for another trip to 
England. 

Reverdy values a book's aesthetics in 
addition to its historical novelty and 
literary merit. For him, a good book 
comes out of the marriage of a master-
ful printer and a 
skillful binder. 

Talking to a prospective customer 
about an early edition of a Dickens 
novel, Reverdy describes the volume 
as if it were alive. "It's pages are firm, 
and the binding is tight," he says. 
"'there was a slight crack in the cover 
skin, but it's been healed." Reverdy 
believes that the cover of a book 
protects and preserves the spirit of its 
writer. "Some writers put their soul in 
their books," Reverdy says, "and some 
expose the souls of others." 
• 


**Title: Home Repair**
**Author: Andrea Assarat**

The morning after Christmas, 56 
children from Waterbury, Connecticut 
quietly climbed out of several vans 
onto the campus of a local col-
lege. They were between the ages of 
seven and twelve; most were white, the 
rdt either black or Latino. Many of the 
campers. who would spend the next five 
days tog(!ther, did not yet know one 
another. 
but all 
had already 
shared one experience: They had been 
abused by their parents. 

Joan(Kaufman (GRD '90), a fifth-
year psychology graduate student, 
designed Camp Winterfest to measure 
the effect of parental abuse and neglect 
on children's development. With the 
results of her study, she will recom-
mend specific changes in the state 
services for maltreated children. The 
idea for the study became a reality 
when K aufman won a $90,000 grant 
from the Smith-Richardson Found-
anbn. T his award was the largest that 
any psychology graduate student at 
Yale had ever received. Kaufman got 
Started right away. Two months before 
the camp, she advertised at Yale for 12 
assistant counselors. 
The state's 
Department of Children and Youth 
Services (DCYS) referred families to 
the camp. 

Early in the first day, the campers 
divided into groups by age and pro-
ceeded to their scheduled classes in 
cooking, art, gym, and music. For one to 
two hours during the day Kaufman 
adminstered tests to determine each 
child's. emotional, psychological, and 
intellectual development. She asked 
questions like, "Do you have a lot of 
friends?" and "Do you ever think of 
hurting yourself?" Kaufman also tried 
to observe their natural behavior in 
play situations. 
But according to 
assistant· counselor Pramil Singh (BR 
'91), "Ultimately her goal was that the 
kids have fun. If any of the experi-
mental aspects were disruptive, then 
she wanted us to forget it." 

That wasn't necessary. Singh found 
that the children _actually enjoyed 
taking the tests. But the work was still 
serious. To ensure that her assistants 
didn't influence the ~· resu l ts with any 
preconceptions, she led the counselors 
to believe that only half the children 
had been maltreated and the others 
were part of a control group. To add 
depth 
to 
her study, 
Kaufman 
interviewed the children's parents and 
teachers; she also consulted their 
medical records. 

K aufman will have finished analyzing 
the information by April. Until then, 
she hesitates to make any definite 
conclusions. She does, however, affirm 
that the children in the program are at 
least one to two years behind aca-
demically. Although all the tests were 
designed for an eight-year-old's level of 
comprehension, Charles Henrickson 
(SY '91), an assistant counselor in 
charge of the 11-and 12-year-old boys, 
found that many of his counselees had 
trouble reading and understanding the 
questions. Once Kaufman completes 
her report, she will be able to help state 
officials improve programs for these 
children. But for now, they have 
returned home. 


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Megan Chambers**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Test of Faith 
It seems so easy to become a Born 
Again Christian, so very easy. Just leaf 
through the booklet, Ben Born Again's 
New Believer's Growth Book. Complete 
with cartoon illustrations, it outlines 
everything you need to know. 

YOU 
NEED TO DO FOUR · 
THINGS TO RECEIVE CHRIST: 
( 1) ADMIT your spiritual need. That's 
simple enough. You might not even 
know you've done it. Just saunter 
· down the block to the New Haven 
Green one Saturday afternoon. There, 
following the last strains of an Evan-
gelical rock band, a voice lures you to 
the grandstand with its scintillating 
cry, 
"This is 
the generation of 
fornication." And just by sitting down 
to listen , 
you've 
admitted some 
need- at least according to Troy, who 
comes right up to you, no last name, 
just a regular guy there to help you on 
your way. This young, black ex-
serviceman crouches down to your 
eye level and tells you about the 
greatest change in 
his 
life, 
acceptance of Christ. He starts by 
telling you about his life before: seven 
years in the army, a college degree in 
chemistry, ego, pride, neglect of his 
wife and kids, hatred of white people, 
black people, Puerto Ricans. Then his 
life after: love, a relationship with 
Jesus, letting Jesus into his heart. He 
points to his six-year-old leaping on the 
grass to explain how Jesus helped him 
accept the world he had hated. When 
Troy tells his son "no more cake," the 
boy asks, "Why?" But he has to accept 
his father's authority on the subject, 
just as Troy must 
accept God's 
authority and trust that He knows 
what's best. 

While you just take it easy, listening 
and nodding, Troy starts to read to 
you from the Kingjames Bible, glancing 
up periodically with his solemn eyes to 
catch your expression. He reads from 
the Gospel according to John and then 
says, "When that Word shot out of His 
mouth, it had to be at the speed of 
light, right? Scientists have found that 
it's still expanding." And maybe Troy's 
talking a little over your head, but if 
that statement doesn't pique your 
curiosity, what would? So when it's 
time to go, you accept the card Troy 
thrusts into your hand and rf:ad the 
words "Potter House Christian Center, 
!;ervices Sunday at 5:30." And Troy 
tells you, "Call me if you ever need a 
ride or anything." 

So why not .go, just to see? Why not 
go right to the source? Which in this 
case means driving on a Sunday 
evening to Bridgeport, half an hour 
away. Young mothers greet you on the 
low, cement porch, keeping an eye on 
the children as they toddle about the 
parking lot in front of the one-room 
building- someone says it used to be a 
pizza parlor. And there you are, ·telling< 
them you came because you met Troy 
yesterday in the park, implying that 
you are there to: 
.\. 
(2) REPENT and be willing to turn 
from your sins, 
which seems easy 
enough, with the women on the porch 
welcoming you so warmly, telling you 
their names, informing you that Troy's


probably inside praym g. They ask you 
about the Green-did you hear the 
bands and have you ever heard music 
like that before in your life? But that 
question isn't so easy to a nswer because 
you don't know what to say. The music 
had sounded pretty mediocre to you; 
still, you don't want to be rude. So you 
just keep quiet and find that soon 
they're letting you inside. 

Inside the house people make you 
feel right at home. A large, balding, 
white man dressed in a watery-gray 
~it sees you at once a nd comes over, 
just trying to be helpful. While he 
starts in on the story o f his conversion 
you can't help taking a quick look 
around, taking in the white walls and 
brightly lacquered wooden rafters, the 
60-or-so folding chairs arranged facing 
!he pulpit. A young Latino couple sits 
Jn the front row. The mother, maybe 
~0 years old, holds a grimacing baby 
Jn one arm, its bottle resting by her 
foot. The balding, white man points to 
a map dotted with little red spots that 
mark Born Agatn 
congregations 
around the world. H e mentions that 
their regular pastor has gone to the 
Philippines for a few weeks to spread 
~e Good News. On a large screen 
hanging from the rafters behind him, 
You see the lyrics to the first song of the 
~rvice appearing first reversed, then 
nght-side-up. ' In the opposite corner 
You spot Troy picking up one of two 
electric guitars leaning beside a large 
drum set. 

T hen on some familiar cue the 
balding man ushers you to a chair, and 
the whole place explodes into move-
ment and sound. About 50 voices 
challenge organ, drum, and guitar, 
and a hundred elbows jerk rhyth-
mically in and out, clapping with the 
beat. Swept up in their energy, you 
clap along. From all sides, people smile 
at you, and you smile back. A tiny girl 
with straight, dark hair and wide-open 
eyes sits extremely upright a nd claps 
with sheer excitement. She looks at 
you gaily and you smile broadly, 
hoping she won't notice that you're just 
pretending. And soon you don't have 
time to think - about sin or repentance 
or looking like you belong- because 
things start happening. The instru-
ments drop out and the congregation 
rises. The clapping builds and builds 
until it bursts into hands reaching 
toward the heavens a nd 
voices 
exhorting and exulting and then melts 
into a second volley of claps, propelling 
the gesticulating mass through another 
cycle of prayer . While doing your part 
with an occasional clap, clap you 
attempt to decipher the cries: "Praise 
Jesus," "Praise God," "Hail Jesus.• A 
man behind you calls out in syllables 
you've never heard, and you realize he 
must be speaking in tongues. Through 
the waving arms, you glimpse Tro}' 
All illustrations by Rex Morache, 
Bm Born Again's N~w B~li~ver's Growth 
Book, 
Harvest Ministries, 
1985. 
Design by Stephen Hooper.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
rocking back and forth in a chair by the 
pulpit, his face completely covered;.n 
his hands. Is he crying, you wonder' 
You can't really tell. 


One man after another rises to the 
pulpit. A singing man yields to a 
speaking man who reads from Re\·· 
elations, telling you about the lift 
hereafter, about how "we're not goinf 
to have to live in this city, in all th~ 
trash, forever." You remember the 
piles of beat-up furniture an:! scattered 
garbage you passed on your search fot 
the house. The speaking man yields t• 
a young man with a flabby fnce, fred 
les. and freckle-colored hair. YIJIJ 
recognize him from before the service 
as the visiting pastor who just got the 
calling three years ago at the age of l~ 
The balding man tOld you that th~ 
pastor has come to perform a healin~ 
But for now you have to sit through h~ 
sermon on Faith. which becomes Rtd 
H ot Faith, which becomes Red Ho!


. Burning Faith, 
until 
finally the 
t congregation shouts "Amen!" and 
voices start caJling out. To catch your 
breath, you bury your face and wait. 
Everyone lines up at the front of the 
room. Some stand squared, their arms 
outstretched in a d ivine embrace. 
O thers kneel on the rug in a kowtow of 
prayer. You stay in your chair. 


One of the young women you met 
on the porch earlier, Debbie, notices 
that you're hanging back and ap-
proaches you. She sits beside you and 
starts to tell you how she was raised by 
her grandmother as a church-going 
Catholic. You wonder why she's telling 
you this, and then you remember Ben 
Born Again's four-part plan. Debbie 
must be here to help you: 
(3) BELIEVE that Jesus Christ died for 
you on the cross. "Do you," Debbie asks, 
"accept J esus. Christ as your personal 
savior?" She's looking at you so earn-
estly. You avert your eyes and decide 
to play dumb. You stammer. You act" 
bewildered. Still, she persists, her 
voice full of concern. "Do you believe 
that jesus Christ died for you?" Feeling 
panicked, you say nothing. Maybe, 
you think, you could just skip number 
three and go on to 
(4) RECEIVE, through prayer, Jesus 
Christ into your heart and life. 
You 
examine the mass of swaying backs at 
the front of the room and try to 
imagine yourself up there. Debbie is 
waiting for your answer. Eventually 
she suggests, "You could go up and 
pray, I guess." You hear the doubt in 
her voice and steal a quick look at her 
face, just a glance. Barely, just barely, 
your eyes brush hers. It is enough. "I 
guess ... " she says slowly, shocked by 
the realization, "I guess you can't pray 
if you don't believe." 


He"· face looks crushed, crumpled 
with disappoin_tme11t, the way you 
thought only a child could look. You 
want to apologize, to tell her that really 
you are a believer. You want to explain 
that when "you first met Troy, you 
thought, "Yeah, I can relate." Because 
you, 
too, have rc.ad 
the Gospel 
according to John, and you know that 
the term "Word" derives from the 
Greek logos, meaning both word and 
reason. You even underlined it in a 
book. You want to tell her that you 
grew up sharing her Judeo·Christian 
values and that some of the teach i ng~ 
of the New Testament hold personal 
meaning for you. You want to tell her 
that it's only a matter of time. 
But it's no use. Debbie looks at you, 
and you look back, and neither of you 
can say anything to make the other feel 
any better. And this, you think, is 
really more than you can take. This is 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Megan Chambers**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It's not easy to 
transcend all the 
'cynicism and defenses 
of adulthood, and 
believe. 

so much more than you expected. You 
were just curious, and now you've 
gone and ruined things. You feel that 
you are to blame, and you don't want 
to feel that way at all. 

And now you get angry. Because 
whose fault is this situation anyway? 
After all, you..didn't ask this misguided 
woman to sit sorrowfully beside you, 
mourning for your soul. You look once 
again at Debbie's crushed Ping-Pong-
ball face, and your anger peaks. You 
aren't going to take responsibility for 
~someone so fragile. And what about all 
the others, with their upturned faces, 
innocent as the day they were born? 

Then you remember a passage you 
once learned. "Suffer the little children 
to come unto me," you recite to your-
self. "Of such is the kingdom of God." 
And suddenly, you think you under-
stand the whole problem. This whole 
thing, this whole Born Again thing, is 
about childhood: cake you give up 
without asking why, undiscriminating 
friendliness to total strangers, the 
clapping and singing and carrying on 
right down to that cartoon booklet. 

But then you ta~ a moment to calm 
down. They're a funny 
sort of 
children- children who have lived 
adult lives. They read newspapers; 
they fill out tax returns. Some of them 
might be alcoholics. Some of the 
women might have been raped. And 
still they can raise up their hands to 
heaven, and still they can smile, and 
still they can pray. As simple as it 
seems, this Born Again stuff isn't easy 
at all. It's not easy to transcend all the 
cynicism and defenses of adulthood, 
and believe. 

And now, more than ever, you know 
you would never be able to do it. You 
would never be able to summon up 
that second innocence. Amid your 
questions and your doubts you could 
never fit in such absolute belief. And 
isn't it funny that what you learned at 
the Potter's House Christian Center is 
not how much you do believe but how 
much you don't? 

You feel exhausted, wiped out, as if 
you had spent these two-and-a-half 
hours in tears. As you head for the 
door, hands reach out to you, offering 
pamphlets. One woman gives you her 
phone number- in case you have any 
questions or just want to talk. But she's 
a believer, and you are not. And 
though you appreciate the effort, you 
know you will never call. 

• 

Megan Chambers zs a senior in Saybrook 
College. 
The New journal/ February 3, 1989 13 


**Title: Old School Ties**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 15**

The lounge of the Yale Club of New 
York City has many handsome wood 
tables. H eavy curtains on the windows 
have trapped a pleasant smell of pipe 
tobacco. The room is quiet; most of the 
members read newspapers taken from 
the selection on the tables, and a few 
people converse in low voices. The 
walls, ornamented with Ionic pilasters, 
reflect a certain warmth even when the 
fireplaces are empty. This is where 
~ alumni hang out. 

The setting differs vastly from the 
archetypical college haunt, where 
wood tables are meant for carving and 
the smoke in the air comes from 
cigarettes. Many undergraduates who 
visit the Yale Club feel ill at ease: To 
them it is "alumni-land," an intimi-
dating place where the Yale society of 
long-ago gather to drink Scotch and 
read the Wall Street Journal. Yet every 
year roughly 250 graduates, fresh from 
college, become members. 

H aving recently come from the 
young, predominantly liberal envi- ~ 
ronment of Yale, they are greeted by 
the older, predominantly conservative 
environment of the Yale Club. Their 
college years are still too fresh to 
inspire sighs of nostalgia; friends know 
each other's immediate plans and have 
not lost contact. When young mem-
bers go to the club, it is generally more 
in anticipation than in reminiscence. 

These new alumni realize that the Yale 
Club is more than a place to eat, drink, 
and play squash. It is a symbol of a 
specific lifestyle: very comfortable, 
very proper, very Yale. This image has 
a touch of the anachronistic. School 
mottos carved above the fireplaces, 
strict requirements for dress, and the 
upkeep of old school ties create an 
atmosphere some members feel reflects 
Yale's worthy traditions, and others, its 
elitism. 

The Yale Club of New York was 
+ created in 1897 "to promote the 
frequent meeting together of Yale 
men," according to 
the original 
Certificate of Incorporation. The club 
occupied two other buildings before 
moving in 1915 to Vanderbilt Avenue 
right next to Grand Central Station. 
The new building cost $1 million to 
build. It was the world's largest private 
club at the time, and it is still the 
largest college club. By the early 
Forties women were admitted as 
guests; by 1974 they could become 
members. The present club has 9,400 
members, and it serves not only 
Yale alumni, but those of Dartmouth 
College and Delta Kappa Epsilon 
fraternity as well. 

In order to join, all applicants must 
present two recommendations from 
current members. In the spring of their 
senior year, however, undergraduates 
receive an invitation to join the club 
without the usual recommendations. If 
they apply by the following September, 
they can forego the five-and-a-half 
week waiting period and just pay the 
dues. Dues stan at S50 per quarter-
year for those living in New York City, 
but increase to as much as S173. 75 per 
quarter over the next eight years, to 
match an anticipated rise in income. 

Members have access to a wide 
range of facilities: There is a library, 
various dining rooms, several bars, a gym, 
squash courts, and a Turkish bath, as 
well as the lounge. But the majority of 
the club's 22 floors contain hotel rooms 
for out-of-town members. Lectures 
-often by Yale professors- mixers, 
and special events, 
sometimes 
featuring Yale singing groups, keep 
the atmosphere from becoming too 
quiet. And there are always the weekly 
films of old Yale football games. 

Although sometimes opting out of 
these activities, recently graduated 
students make good use of the club's 
facilities. "For someone our age, the 
main reason to go would be the athle-
tics," Andy Cawker (SY '87) said. The 
gym is well-equipped and cheaper than 
most health clubs. The atmosphere has 
its own kind of appeal. "The gym is 
mellow," said Colin Weil (SM '88). 
"It's not the singles-bar scene that most 
health clubs are." While riding the 
exercycles, 
for example, 
members 
divert their attention by watching the 
TV rather than each other. 

Use of these facilities costs extra, but 
The Ne" JoumaUFebruary 3, 1989 15 



**Title: The Yale Club**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
are often •u•"DIIIiMil 
they can ring ujl_wiifljiiiill_..lt 
club. The 
lYilllelllt doea 
the 
build-up of costs. Squash courts: 
for a half an hour. Gym: S4 per use. 
Furthermore, the dining rooms are 
expensive, at least bf,.,Ua,: standards of 
most people freah a..a,CoUege. Reuel 
Schiller (SM '88) ..... his parents to 
dinner one night iilad wu surprised to 
learn several ~-.er that he had 
spent $113. '"The food wasn't even that 
good. For that money you could get 
three Chineae meals. Or 113 slices of 
pizza.• 
But the club is decidedly not a pizza 
parlor, and there is a dress code to 
ensure no one makes that mistake. 
Men must wear jacket and tie at all 
16 The New Journal/February 3. 1989 
When young 
members go to the 
club,it is generally 
more in anticipation 
than in reminiscence.


**Title: Exclusive Membership**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Exclusive membership, a standard 
advantage of any private club, is part 
of the Yale Club package. But the 
club's officers seem to be aware that 
this benefit can create bad impressions. 
The club forbids its administrators 
from granting any interviews, and no 
pictures can be taken inside the 
building. These measures protect the 
club members' privacy, but they also 
conveniently limit 
criticism 
from 
outside. 


By nine o'cloclt on a Wednesday 
evening the lounge is especially quiet. 
Only a few people are still sitting and 
reading; it seems that most of the 
members have already left for home. 
Jack Sobol (BR '53), however, is still 
fmishifig up the day's paper after going 
for his swim. Sobol said that when he 
was an undergraduate, he had only 
vaguely heard of the club and did not 
join until ten years after his gradu-
ation. The current phenomenon of 
students joining the Yale Club directly 
after graduation is fairly modern. 
Although young members may try 
to shape the Yale Club to their own 
lifestyle, they must still meet the club 
half way. Overall, the club is attuned 
to an older way of life. "I could see 
going there and hanging out while 
waiting for a train at Grand Central," 
Schiller said, "but the chances of my 
being at Grand Central in jacket and 
tie are about one in a million." The 
new generation of the Yale Club may 
find the old guard resistant to some of 
their ideas. Only a year-and-a-half 
ago, women were admitted to the 
Turkish bath. But Sobol still takes his 
daily swim. 
"It's an evolutionary 
process, you know. You're always in a 
period of transition." 
• 
Peter Zusi, a gradUQ.tt of Silliman College, is 
Managing Editor ojTNJ. 


**Title: In the Rough**
**Author: Florence Williams**
**Page number(s): 21**

Victor cried silently in his sleeping bag 
whenever it got really tough. His 
whole body hurt and he smelled bad. 
Hiking ~p and down steep hills was 
hard enough, but he also had to carry a 
heavy pack, dig latrines, and ward off 
bullying threats from Tyrone. At 
times, Victor hated everyone in his 
group so much he would not speak for 
an entire day. The food was terrible, 
he missed his family, and he was often 
cold and wet. On these miserable 
nights, he would bitterly recall the lies 
of his buddy Cesar, who had told him 
that the Wilderness School was like a 
vacation- fishing and basketball every 
day. 


Victor Acevedo is what social work-
ers in Connecticut call a "youth at 
risk." At 17, he has twice been on 
probation, and his principal at New 
Haven's Wilbur Cross High School has 
repeatedly suspended him for fighting. 
Every summer, about 130 Connecticut 
youths 
like Victor enroll 
in the 
Wilderness School. Many of them 
have behavior problems or under-
achieve in school, according to the 
program's current annual report. 
About half of the students have drug or 
alcohol dependencies, and a quarter 
receive psychiatric treatment. For 20 
days the teenagers live together m 
small groups in the backwoods of 
Connecticut, trying very hard to 
believe in the school's credo that 
physical hardship builds character. 


The challenge can seem severe, 
especially to those teenagers who have 
always lived in a city. Victor had never 
been in the woods. He had never slept 
on the ground or even cooked a meal. 
And he had certainly never lived so 
closely with 11 other people. Leading the 
group were two instructors trained in 
outdoor skills and juvenile delinquent 
rehabilitation- one was a former Wil-
derness School student. Together the 
team plodded through the rain, slept 
under tarps, and fought like hell with 
each other. There were no bloody 
noses, though; the instructors allowed 
only yelling and screaming. "Me and 
Tyrone, we hated each other," Victor 
recalled. "I wanted to punch his face 
in. There's a lot of stress-you get 
·angry." About a week into the course, 
Victor had had enough. He was home-
sick, exhausted. He wanted out. 


Victor had his so-called friend Cesar 
to blame for turning him on to the 
program, but there was another culprit 
as well. Thomas Morrissey, a New 
Haven police officer, hooked Victor up 
with the Wilderness School. He also 
secured a grant from the New Haven 
Foundation to pay Victor's $800 tui-
tion. Morrissey, a referral agent for 
the school, sends more teenagers into 
the woods than any other single agent. 
For the past 12 years, he has obtained 
enough grant money to sponsor four 
New Haven teenager!! every summer. 


In the early 1970's, Morrissey was 
one of a number of reformers who saw 
the need for creative ways of han~ing 
youths at risk. In 1974, the Con-
necticut Department of Corrections 
responded to this need by founding the 
Wilderness School. The agency de-
signed the program 
to work 
in 
conjunction with established youth-
service organizations such as coun-
seling centers and detention homes. 
These organizations refer students to 
the wilderness program and perform 
follow-up counseling after the teen-
agers return to civilization. Based out 
of an old scouting camp in Goshen, 
near the Berkshires in northwestern 
Connecticut, the school has access to



**Title: The Wilderness School**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Officer Thomas Morrissey convinced Victor Acevedo that walking the 
high rope is better than suspension from school.


The Connecticut Wilderness School, nestled in the Litchfield hills, offers 
a challenging outdoor program for troubled teenagers.  Many social workers 
refer their difficult cases to the school, including Officer Thomas Morrissey 
of the New Haven Police Department.  Morrissey began sending referrals 
to the school five years ago.  The school is set on 1,000 acres with miles of 
wooded trails, rock climbing 
areas, and a navigable river. 

The outdoor skills taught during the 
course 
build 
self-confidence, 
foster 
teamwork, 
and provide construc-
tive challenges. Many social workers 
in tht· state swear by the program and 
("itc 
numerous success stories. 
Mor·risscv estimates that the 
\1\'ild<Tncss. School 
has 
a 
posrtrve 
emotional effect on 85 to 90 percent of 
its participants. H is figures arc high. 
hut 
th(·v 
mirror the 
findings of 
professionals. A study conducted at 
Yale 
in 
1975 by Dr. 
Solomon 
Cytrynbaum found that the program 
helps students with 
their "social 
functioning, drug and alcohol abuse, 
[and] legal difficulties." 

Such rewards do not come easily. 
Morrissey tries to make sure his 
referrals know exactly what they are 
getting into. On his patrol, Morrissey 
finds kids who he thinks would make 
good candidates for the Wilderness 
School. He approaches them with a 
challenge: "H ey kid, you think you're 
pretty tough. Let's see if you can do 
something constructive." He chooses 
the final group very carefully, pre-
selecting them for success. They have 
to want to go and they have to want to 
change. About half the applicants back 
out after seeing slides of the rock 
"I never felt better in 
my whole life. I 
looked up and said 'I 
did that.'" 
climbing, he says. As an agent, 
Morrissey drives his referrals to 
Goshen where he helps them design 
personal 
goals 
for 
the course. 
When Victor set out 
into the 
woods, 
his 
main 
goal 
was 
to '-'understand people without using 
violence." Many students had similar 
aims. The instructors held campfire 
therapy sessions each night to help 
everybody get along during the px:o-
gram. 

The wilderness, however, is not for 
everyone. About one out of ten stu· 
dents ends up leaving the program 
early each year. One of Morrissey's 
referrals had to leave the course three 
days in: He had a bullet in his leg from 
a shooting on his street the night before 
he had left. He hadn't wanted to tell his 
instructors because he was afraid they 
would send him home. 

But Victor stayed. A girl named 
Tammy, from Hartford, talked him 
into sticking it out. He says he was 
amazed that someone cared about him 
enough to want him around. Even-
tually, all the campers started getting 
along better. Even Tyrone could be a 
nice guy. "After every fight, we were a 
little closer," Victor explained. "We'd 
fight, we'd make up, we'd be better 
friends." Learning to trust others is 
essential to the program, according to 


With students from a wide diversity 
of ethnic and geographic backgrounds, 
the school provides an intense cultural 
experience. "It's more realistic that 
way." said Dyer, a former therapist 
now working full-time for the school. 
Morrissey thinks the friendships that 
develop in the outdoors create feelings 
that stay with the teenagers a long 
time. "On the course, you've got to 
concentrate and have confidence," he 
explained. "These kids say to them-
selves, 'H ey, I am somebody- I can 
hook up with a team and we can all be 
somebodies together.' It makes you feel 
like you're not a loner out there." 

Victor knew he had friends he could 
trust when he tried climbing a granite 
cliff. The first stretch was easy, and he 
did well as long as he didn't look down. 
But halfway up the rock wall, he froze . 
He was terrified. With his toes trem-
bling on the rock, he couldn't find a 
higher 
place 
to 
put 
hands. 
\\'atching from below, the others saw 
him stop and began chanting his 
name. "They were cheerin~- every-
body, Tammy, Tyrone." Victor kept 
going, eyes partially closed. When he 
came back down, he felt great. "I never 
felt better in my whole life. I looked 
up, and said, 'I did that!"' 

During the high ropes section of the 
course, Victor found himself once 
again above solid ground. Harnessed 
to a climbing rope, he set out to cross a 
ravine by walking along one suspended 
cord and holding onto another. The 
others before him had deliberately 
jumped off halfway across, taking a 
trust fall, and then hoisting themselves 
back up. Victor was determined not to 
take the plunge. But when he got out 
there and looked into the expectant 
faces of those on the other side, he took 
a deep breath and let go. After dang-
ling by the rope for a few seconds, 
Victor climbed back up and continued 
across. 

One of the toughest course require-
ments came near the end. The cam-
pers were supposed to stay alone in one 
area for two days with only a tarp, a 
small handful of food, a pad of paper, 
and a pen. They were to use the time 
and solitude to think about improving 
their lives. Victor did what most 
students do: He ate all his food the first 
morning and then fasted the next day. 
"The scariest thing about it was the 
wild animals," he said. 
Raccoons 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Florence Williams**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As part of the training for the Wilderness School, students 
must learn how to prevent hypothermia. 
invaded his camp the first afternoon. 
"They attacked me. I ran the hell out of 
there." He was then allowed to set up 
his tarp 30 feet away from his instruc-
tors, but behind a tree, and he finished 
the course requirements. 
Since Victor graduated from the 
program, Morrissey has stayed in 
touch. Maintaining contact with the 
students is important to him. A police 
officer for 18 years, Morrissey says the 
program keeps him from becoming 
numb to the street beat. "I've seen 
some horrible things, but I don't have a 
bad attitude about life. I don't do 
drugs, I don't take alcohol, and I 
haven't shot anybody. I give credit to 
the Wilderness School for keeping me 
in perspective." 
Victor, on the other hand, has a new 
perspective. "I feel like I'm doing 
better- I don't fight like I used to," he 
said. He is anxious to return to the 
outdoors and has plans to try cross-
country skiing and cave-exploring as 
part of the school's follow-up activities. 
He wants to recommend the program 
to some of his friends. "It was really 
hard, but I'm not sorry I did it," he 
said. And he no longer holds a grudge 
against Cesar . 
• 
Florence Williams, a senior in Berlceky 
Coll~ge, is on the staff of TN]. 
The New J ournal/February 3, 1989 25 


**Title: A Dramatic Lead**
**Author: Margo Schlanger**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

"When you see Lloyd 
work with an actor, 
it's very subtle. You 
almost think he isn't 
doing anything." 
26 The New Journal/February 3, 1989 
Avery wants to be a preacher. He's going to 
rent out a room and start up a congregation. 
When he gets his church, Berneice tells him, 
then they can talk about getting married. The 
cast of The Piano Lesson rehearses in a 
cold room in the Yale Afro-American 
Cultural Center. 
Director Lloyd 
Richards, near 70, with a neat, grayish 
beard, sits in his chair wearing a ski 
hat. "What does the church look like?" 
he asks. "Have you seen it? Have you 
been inside? Is it a storefront?" He 
doesn't wait for an answer. "OK , do it 
again." 
Lloyd Richards, dean of the Yale 
School of Drama and artistic director 
of the Yale Repertory Theatre since 
1978, is perhaps the preeminent black 
educator, administrator, and director 
in mainstream American theater. 
Richards is steering The Piano Lesson, 
by August Wilson, along a now fami-
liar path. With Richards as director, 
Wilson's three other plays premiered at 
the Rep, travelled to several regional 
theaters, and opened 
finally on 
Broadway. Piano Lesson is in the middle 
of its journey: After playing at the Rep


last season, it moved to Boston and 
then went up in Chicago, although the 
actors rehearsed in New Haven with 
Richards. 
With Wilson's plays, 
Richards 
has 
found 
the 
national 
acclaim that has eluded him since his 
first Broadway directing credit in 
1959, A Raisin in the Sun by Lorraine 
H ansberry. Like Raisin, which was the 
first Broadway play ever to have a 
black director, the Wilson plays make 
stories of African-American 
life 
accessible to both black and white 
audiences. Throughout his career , 
Richards has quietly worked to sound 
black voices on an historically white 
stage. 
"When you see Lloyd work with an 
actor, it's very subtle. You almost 
think he isn't doing anything," says 
Gitta H onegger, the R ep's resident 
dramaturg. who 
frequently directs. 
Because Rtchards grants his actors so 
much freedom , Charles Dutton (ORA 
'83) considers him an actor's director. 
"H e never really tells you what he 
wants," says Dunon, who has played a 
lead role in three of Wilson's plays. 
"You intuitively or instinctively or 
accidentally find it. And then he'll tell 
you you're absolutely right." Richards 
developed this directing style over his 
20 years of teaching at Paul Mann's 
Actor's Workshop, Hunter College, 
and New York University. "Lloyd has 
the patience of Job- more patience 
than any man I've ever met," Dutton 
says. 
Richards sees himself as a play-
wright's director. "I am not interested 
in bending a play to my own purposes. 
I am interested in understanding the 
intent of the playwright to the extent 
that it is possible," he says. Each season 
Richards directs one or two plays at the 
Rep. H e tries to give voice to the 
playwright's intent with every play, 
from Ibsen's A Doll's House to Lee 
Blessing's Cobb, but he prefers plays 
in which he can influence the play-
wright. According to Wilson, Richards 
once called him up to discuss a draft of 
Piano Lesson. He said, "I think you have 
one too many scenes here," Wilson 
says. Reading back over the play, 
Wilson decided that yes, there was an 
expendable section. The next time he 
talked to Richards, Wilson told his friend 
that he had taken out the scene. "Lloyd 
said 'Good,' and to this day I don't 
know if we were talking about the same 
scene." 
As artistic director, R ichards has 
dedicated the R ep to helping new and 
unestablished playwrights. "The play-
wright is at the core of the work of both 
the school and the Rep," he says. "The 
work that he produces is the future of 
the theater. And unless playwrights are 
evolving, what is the future?" In 1981, 
this belief provided the impetus for 
Winterfest, the Rep's annual festival of 
four new plays by young, unknown 
playwrights. 
Richards also chooses the plays for 
the Rep's regular season. H e admits 
that it is a personal decision. "You 
gravitate towards things that reveal or 
express yourself," he says. Richards 
turns to plays that deal directly and 
powerfully with issues of blackness. 
His successes have not been in what he 
calls "redoing other people's 
doings," but in establishing rela-
The New JournaVFebruary 3, 1989 27 



**Title: Lloyd Richards: A Life in the Theater**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"'\.. 0 N ~ _,. 
~ TAVERNd' 
3 La rge Screen TV's 
Menu 11a.m.-10p.m. dally 
11 a.m .-12a.m . Fridays 
Live entertainment 
Saturday Nights 
Reduced Prices with Yale 101 
11a.m.·1 a.m. Weekdays 
Fri. and Sat. till 2a.m. 
758-760 State St. 
824-2400 
THE TUTOR 
MATHEMATICAL 
INSTRUCTION 
AT ALL LEVELS 
(203) 227-MATH 
(203) 226-MATH 
1-800-24-TUTOR 
MIRACLE 
WALKERS 
If you knew what 
they felt like, you'd 
be wearing 
them now. 
Great in stock selection! 
· Ua IJ 
Comfort 
j~ -te Shoe Centr.r 
NOW O PEN SATURDAY! 
627-629 Chapel Street 
(Corner of Olive), New H aven 
777-2396 
28 The New Journal/February 3, 1989 
R ichards, 
director of 
Raisin in the Sun 
starring Sidney 
P oi tier. 
tionships with playwrights whose work 
he then helps develop. "One of the 
most wonderful things that can happen 
is to discover someone whose thoughts 
and artistry are parallel to your own," 
Richards says. One such discovery was 
Athol Fugard, a white South African 
who writes about people in a society 
dominated and defined by apartheid. 
Since 1979 the Rep has produced 
seven Fugard plays, including three 
world premiers. "One of my reasons 
for being in the theater is that it gives 
me a platform from which to articulate 
my own feelings, my own thoughts, 
my own concerns," Richards says. 
Although he puts the playwright at the 
rhetorical center, Richards silently 
places himself right alongside. 
Armed only with a foot locker full of 
possessions, a degree in theater from 
Wayne University of Detroit, and a 
Veterans' Entitlement to S20 per week. 
Richards arrived in New York City in 
194-8. Work was not plentiful for black 
actors, and he joined what he calls the 
"artistic circle of the unemployed." He 
also joined a group of young black 
newcomers to the theater that included 
Lorraine 
Hansberry and 
Douglas 
Turner Ward. In a world that offered 
blacks 
few 
opportunities 
in 
the 
theatrical mainstream, many in this 
group were to make their careers by 
founding black 
theaters for black 
audiences. Ward, director of the 
Negro Ensemble Company, asked 
Richards to direct various plays during 
the 1960's. Richards turned him down, 
choosing instead to work towards 
opening white theater to the black 
experience. His big stage successes 
have been in historically white venues, 
and his TV work has been mostly on 
black 
projects 
accepted by 
white 
audiences, such as a segment of Roots. 
"Richards has tended not to create a 
separate black institution, as many of 
his contemporaries did, but to bring 
black voices into white institutions," 
says Caroline Jackson (TC '74). dirc~c­
to r of the 
Yale 
Afro-Amt>rican 
Cultural Center and a student of 
African-American theater. 
"I am first of all a black man in a 


--- Page 29 ---

I I 
. "' 
white world," Richards says. "For me 
to say that that does not either concern 
or affect me would b e both ridiculous 
and untrue. It does. I am concerned 
that persons of different backgrounds 
• find a way to relate, to interrelate, and 
to create as well as to share." Richards 
has demonstrated these concerns at the 
Drama School by opening up the 
school to a greater number of minority 
students. "His being here is a great 
source of inspiration and pride," one 
black student says, 
although she 
complains that even now there is a 
"quota mentality" at the school. She 
says that every year three black 
actors-two men, one woman- are 
admitted to a class of 16. Another 
student, also a black woman, questions 
this unofficial quota. "Can't there ever 
be six black acting students in a class 
here?" she asks. But she says, "If there's 
a certain amount of sadness, there's a 
certain amount of gratitude as well." 
For Richards, the theater door 
opened after Sidney Poitier was offered 
a role in Raisin, his first on Broadway, and 
pushed for Richards as director. Bonds 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Margo Schlanger**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"I am first of all a 
black man in a white 
world. For me to say 
that that does not 
either concern or 
affect me would be 
both ridiculous and 
untrue." 


from 2, 700 to 8,000, an increase 
crucial to the Rep and the school's 
financial security. Almost all these 
subscribers are white. During last 
year's run of Piano Lesson the majority 
of non-subscription ticket sales were to 
blacks, and the resulting audience was 
about 25 percent black. This year, 
however, 80 percent of each house is 
filled by subscribers, crowding out 
Richards' multi-ethnic ideal. Richards' 
contract ends in 1991 , leaving him 
.., only two more years to continue his 
drive for a more encompassing theater. 
Lymon is asking Berneice about Grace. 
"What she look like- the woman he was 
wilh? She got brown skin? About this high? Got 
nice hips on herr 
~she had on a red dress. , 
~77zat's her. , 
Richards laughs. When the scene ends, 
he addresses one actor. "You're slur-
ring your words. Emphasize the first 
word even if it's short, or we lose it." 
Wilson wants to make a change in the 
script, and he gives Richards the new 
line, mumbling slightly. "Now don't 
you start slurring, too," Richards says. 
"Next scene." 



Bedroom Furnirure I Futon Convertibles 
Frames 
available 
$99 and up. 
1227 Chapel Street 
2 blocks from Yale center 
624-3774 

C.opiC s 
table tents,posters, 
course materials,& whatnot 
still the lowest prices in Elm City 
149 York 8 to 5 Monday-Friday 432-2894 
Yale Quick Copy Center 

WHAT CAN A SMILE DO? 
enchant 
delight 
persuade 
amuse 
encourage 
charm 
console 
communicate 
WARM UP YOUR WORLD 
N. SUMMER LERCH, D.D.S. 
2 Church Street South Suite 311 
New Haven, CT 06519 
624-5256 
Aesthetic & Restorative Dentistry 


**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 32**

OCF class agents are c 
to make a pledge to our c 
an annu~l basis, will c 
· Class's 25th reunion gift. 
FUND 

