Publication date: April 19, 1996
Volume: 28
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Audrey Leibovich
- Acting Editor-in-Chief: Karen Jacobson
- Managing Editor: Gabriel Snyder
- Business Manager: Dan Murphy
- Designer: Alec Bemis
- Production Manager: John Bullock
- Photography Editor: Marisa Galvez
- Contributing Editor: Hillary Margolis
- Associate Publisher: Min Chen
- Associate Editor: Joel Burges
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Mark Neuman


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- About this Issue
- Letters to the Editor
- Points of Departure
- The Case of the Missing $54 - Gabriel Snyder
- Photo Essay: Manipulating Their Own Media - Marisa Galvez
- The Hand-Off - Dana Goodyear
- Yale's Southern Accent - Garry L. Reeder II
- Stanley - Eva Bonime
- Between the Vines: What I Learned from the Strike of '96 - Dan Murphy


**Title: The Case of the Missing $54**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 10**

What your bank doesn't want you to know about the money it is making 
off of your student loan.


**Title: Photo Essay: Manipulating Their Own Media**
**Author: Marisa Galvez**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: The Hand-Off**
**Author: Dana Goodyear**
**Page number(s): 16**

With no clear standards, administrators, faculty, teaching assistants, and 
students pass the burden of monitoring cheating.


**Title: Yale's Southern Accent**
**Author: Garry L. Reeder II**
**Page number(s): 21**

After two years of original research, an undergraduate discusses the ties 
between Yale and the South.


**Title: Stanley**
**Author: Eva Bonime**
**Page number(s):  [Page number missing from provided text]**

A portrait of a 72-year old virgin who tries to lead women to the Truth 
from across the parking lot of a nearby women's health clinic.


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Letters to the Editor**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: Between the Vines: What I Learned from the Strike of '96**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 30**


--- Page 4 ---
--- Page 5 ---
--- Page 6 ---
--- Page 10 ---
--- Page 14 ---
--- Page 16 ---
--- Page 21 ---
--- Page 30 ---



**Page 4 Advertisement**
**Untitled**
**Author: KR**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Editing many of the pieces for the issue this weekend was unsettling. Dana 
Goodyear's piece about cheating raised numerous questions among our staff about 
their own actions. As one insisted as she flipped through the story, "I didn't feel 
guilty at all when I used that old test." Eva Bonime's piece about Stanley, who 
protests outside of Women's Health Services on a nearby street, was unnerving in 
its own sense. The detailed portrait of an eccentric activist who harasses women 
seeking counseling captured an extreme in the abortion debate. When sending 
Marisa Galvez, our photography editor, to photograph Stanley for the issue, we 
learned he had been arrested for his haranguing. This led to a tricky design 
question. Photographs of hanging plastic fetuses, which the photographer received 
from other pro-lifers outside the clinic, became disturbing images surrounding the 
p1ece. 

Even Gabriel Snyder's lighter take on the trials and tribulations of hunting 
down the missing $54 from his student loans raised discomfiting questions about 
the federal student loan system. Among our Points of Departure, David Hoffmap 
brought us to a virtual world on 'the Internet where those who are dealing with 
suicide receive solace from strangers. Sara Harkavy traveled to a neighboring 
Church of Scientology to introduce us to the peculiar mindset of this 
organization. 

Dan Murphy's Between the Vines poked fun at the dilemma that was 
continuously debated to no resolution throughout the weekend: how do we, as 
students, deal with the strike of Locals 34 and 35. With early morning wake ups 
and a lack of dining halls, students cannot feign ignorance. Yet, students on both 
sides of the debate, and the majority who stand confused in the middle, all share 
the uneasy feeling that they are witnessing a struggle without simple resolution. 

These students consider Yale a part of their identity but also empathize with the 
strikers as fellow individuals. Students avoid crossing the picket lines by not 
dining at Commons, but turn their heads in uneasiness when they approach those 
picket lines on their way to class. Such discomfort, although a daily occurrence, is 
rarely admitted except in whispers. All of these unsettling issues are most often 
veiled. We began to joke and tease about the vices we use to assuage these 
uncomfortable feelings. One writer admitted to returning to his empty room and 
a six-pack for solace; others of us admitted to stress-induced obsessions with 
chocolate and cigarettes. 

This issue marks the first of a new staff and editorial 1:-oard. Our goal in the 
upcoming year is to continue to address those stories that leave us most unsettled. 
-KR] 


**Letter to the Editor**
**Author: Daniel Abraham (SM '98) YHHAP Coordinator**
**Page number(s): 5**

To the Editor: 
Alec Bemis' article (TN], February 9, 
1996, "The ABCs of Student Activism") 
concerning student activism was not only 
poorly researched and misleading, but it 
also promotes and excuses the student 
apathy on our campus. As a member of 
Yale Homeless and Hunger Action Project 
(YHHAP), I am truly only qualified to 
comment on Mr. Bemis' statements 
regarding this group in the article. 

Mr. Bemis laments that "once again 
members of the Yale Acronym Corps 
{YAC) have failed to state their positions 
with more clarity than the administration 
they attack." What he has failed to do is 
contact YHHAP to see if this is, in fact, the 
case. If he had bothered to contact the 
organizations about which he was writing, 
he would have found, much to his surprise, 
that YHHAP has had a concrete position 
regarding the casual worker program since 
long before the strike began. This posicion 
has been made public ro both the 
newspapers on campus, the national press, 
the administracion, and the unions. 

If he had taken the rime to contact 
YHHAP, he would have discovered rhar, 
after meecing with YHHAP members, the 
union leadership decided to include 
YHHAP's proposals regarding homeless 
workers in their own demands. This has, in 
many ways, changed the tenor of the 
debate over the casual worker issue and 
ilJuminated the truly exploitative nature of 
this hiring program. In no way do I imply 
that we have won. I do insist, however, that 
YHHAP has put its mark on these 
negotiations and awakened undergraduate 
awareness of an issue that is of vital interest 
to us and all of New Haven. 

This realistic assessment of the 
undergraduate student efforts is what Mr. 
Bemis lacks. All sense of hope is quashed 
by his irrepressible cynicism. Perhaps if he 
had the maturity to recognize that not all 
social injustice crumbles immediately in 
the face of reasoned opposition, then he 
would give the credit to student organizers 
that we truly deserve. Campus acrivisrs 
have not ended injustice ar Yale or in New 
Haven, but we sure are trying, and our 
efforts would be a whole lot more 
rewarding with some welJ deserved respect. 
-Daniel Abraham {SM '98) 
YHHAP Coordinator 


**Author: James A. Perrotti Assistant Chief of Police Yale University Police Department**

I was surprised by "The ABCs of 
Student Activism" {TN], February 9, 1996) 
by Alec Bemis in which he bashes one of 
the senior officers of the University Police. 
In addition to his childish reference to 
"official police cap with fuz.z.y ear flaps" and 
"post-doughnut mode," the story included 
the officer's picture to aggrandize the 
attack. It appears to me that the universal 
suppon The New journal expresses towards 
the labor movement should include the 
Police Benevolent Association. I am 
interested in what event spurred Bemis' 
assault on the police. 

It would behoove you to understand 
that the days of the stereotypical "Car 54 
where are you?" are over. University Police 
officers are highly trained professionals 
dealing with criminal incidents as well as 
responding to the safety issues of students 
who are frequently "overwhelmed" with 
campus life. 

The police officer depicted in Bemis' 
article is a fine individual who has made a 
significant impact on the security of rhe 
Yale campus in his 29 plus years. Why Mr. 
Bemis would capriciously depict this officer 
in such an insulting manner is beyond me. 

This officer will continue to represent 
the Yale community in his sworn role until 
he chooses ro retire. He will not treat the 
srudents differently because of this anicle, 
nor will he abandon his oath to serve and 
protect. Neverrheless, to damage an 
individual's self respect is simply a cruel 
way of expressing one's freedom of speech. 
Especially those individuals whose sole 
purpose is to keep our campus safe and 
secure. 
-James A. Perrotti 
Assistant Chief of Police 
Yale University Police Department


**Page 6 Advertisement**
up-dos 
perms 
colors 


**#Suicide**
**Author: David Hoffman**
**Page number(s): 6**

#Suicide 
It looks like a telephone hotline 
offering free counseling for a "family 
member who has exhibited the warning 
signs." Instead it is a "chatroom" on the 
Internet, a gathering place for those who 
have tried to kill themselves, those with 
suicidal friends, those who are considering 
the "big move," and those who simply wish 
to watch in silence. On a typical Saturday 
night, there may be more 
than 35 visitors at a time, 
each sending one-or two-
line messages into the 
chatroom. The effect is 
that of a continuously 
scrolling conversation in 
which three or four 
different topics are dis-
cussed simultaneously. 
It's 
1 
a.m. 
and 
"Kalton" and "Dedalus" 
are in the middle of what 
would prove to be a two-
hour conversation, just as 
"Courtnee" welcomes "Doodle," a 
relative newcomer to the group. 
<Dedalus> Kolton, have you ever tried 
counseling? 
<Courtnee> So, Doodle, how was your 
day? 
<Kolton> fuck counseling! those pointy-
headed pricks don't know what I'm 
going through! in their fancy cars 
and nice suits ... fuck them! 
<Doodle> You know. I got up and tried 
to find something that would make 
it worthwhile. 
<Dedalus> Kolton: dude, you can 
probably get it free from yr 
Student Health Center. No big 
cars/suits. 
<Courtnee> Did you find it? 
<Dedalus> Kalt: it's not as fucked up 
as it sounds, trust me. 
<Doodle> I'm still here aren't I? 
<Kolton> I can't stand it. none of you 
care about me! none of you know me! 
6 
<Kolton> I thought coming here might 
help ... but it only confirmed my 
suspicions. 
<Dedalus> You gotta give us a reason to 
care. What, we're supposed to give 
a damn? 
Courtnee is a pillar of the group in 
these after- hours. One can easily imagine 
her, a maternal figure, logging in at the end 
of an empty day to a world which is far 
'llore intimate and 
simple than her 
own. She says 
that she "has 
tried to do it a 
few times, but 
now I an:t okay." 
When 
she 
occasionally 
.leaves 
comes back, a 
welcoming 
chorus of "Nee!" 
fills a page of text. 
·has the power to 
moderate the discussion, to 
change the current subject, and to eject 
people from the chatroom for whatever 
reason she wants. 

It is impossible to tell exactly who is 
suicidal and who is preying on the 
vulnerable. One young man, "St-of-C," 
claimed in short order to be gay, a 
three-time failure at suicide, on 
amphetamines, getting over a "serious 
fling," and in the ninth grade. He may 
have been serious, but even through the 
flattening effect of a silent discussion, one 
could hear a mocking tone in his voice. 
Perhaps it was the anonymity of the 
chat group which allowed me to join in 
that night. No names, no faces, no 
consequences. It offered a chance to 
dispense with the niceties and subtleties of 
conversation, to be free from the shackles 
of both taboo and appearance. 
<anon> I had a friend. His twelve-year-
old sister found him in the garage. 
He killed himself with a 12-gauge 
shotgun through the roof of his 
head. I had talked to him only a 
week before. 
<Courtnee> Anon, you couldn't have 
known. You couldn't have done 
anything. Don't blame yourself. 
<anon>..J: don't exactly. But ... I wrote 
his parents a sympathy card. His 
mom wrote back. She told me to 
visit in the coming summer. I never 
did. I was afraid that she would 
ask me about him, about our 
friendship, about why I thought he 
did it. I'm afraid of going to that 
house. It's like an accusation- why 
didn't you help me? Why didn't you 
pay attention? I don't know. I just 
think about him sometimes ... in the 
ground you know ... and I can just 
see his face, the way he was. But 
then he is gone. 

At 2 a.m., we talk about the relative 
effectiveness of slitting one's wrists {parallel 
to the arm is best), cyanide (clean, 
effective, hard to get}, sleeping pills (Nee 
tried twice with them), carbon monoxide 
("Gopi" said that it made him cough before 
he passed out), and, of course, guns 
{hollow-tipped bullets are recommended 
for the quickest way out). Some seem eager 
to die, others frightened, but they all want 
to find the quickest and least painful way 
to go. 
<Kolton> any of you know a good place 
to buy a gun? 
<Gopi> I tried but I was too young. 
Next time I'm gonna borrow my 
brother's ID. 
<Kolton> sleeping pills are a lot 
easier to get. 
<Gopi> Yeah ... but I've seen like a 
million people try it on TV, and 
none of them ever dies. 

At 5 a.m. or so, as the sun peaks over 
the horizon, the group disperses to catch a 
few hours of sleep. My monitor stills as the 



**Title: Pages of the Past**
**Author: David Hoffman**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
chatroom empties. And then it flashes back 
to life. 
<Courtnee> Hey anon. I thought everyone 
had gone. You okay out there? 
<anon> Sure. I'm just a little tired, I 
think I'm heading out too. 
<Courtnee> Okay well, come back 
whenever you want to chat .. . 
-David Hoffman


What is that timeworn adage about 
finding a whole new world inside of every 
book? There are as many different 
possibilities as there are books. Some of 
them we recognize, some we dream about, 
others we fear and even disdain. Books 
transport us to worlds long since past and 
to others millions of miles away. But most 
of us are probably unaware of another 
world that exists today, the world of books 
themselves. 


While many of us dance around the 
outskirts of the book world, plucking its 
fruits from time to time, few of us have 
visited the world of book collectors, their 
rare works, and clandestine shops. In fact, 
to the ordinary, even semi-informed 
observer this mysterious world seems to be 
one of the past as well. In William Reese's 
(SM '7_7) informed opinion, however, this 
is a misconception with obvious origins. 
Physical signs of the extinction of 
book collectors abound, he explains. 
Where New York City's "Book Row" once 
filled a full block of used book stores, 
housing millions of books, it has now 
been reduced to the single, although 
impressive, Strand. "It's too difficult for 
many book stores to be successful in cities, 
so they are pushed out to the country or 
forced to close," Reese reports. 


Perhaps foresight of this inspired book 
collector Adrian Van Sinderen (' 1 0) to 
establish the Yale Book Collecting Prize in 
1957 for sophomores and seniors with 
impressive collections. A panel of six 
judges currently including Stephen Parks, 
a curator at the Beinecke Rare Books and 
Manuscript Library, and Sylvia Abbate, 
who is Van Sinderen's granddaughter, 
determines a winner based on the choice 
of books as they relate to a particular topic 
of interest. As Reese, a judge since his 
graduation from Yale, puts it, "A good 
collection of books is one for which the 
sum is more than just the individual 
parts." 


Every year, applicants submit brief 
essays describing their interest in a chosen 
topic as well as in book collecting itself. 
The judges then spend a week trooping 
from fourth-floor dorm room to fourth-
floor dorm room-or so it usually seems, 
the judges complain-in order to visit the 
various collections. After about a week of 
such appointments, the group meets to 
discuss the applicants and then to decide 
upon a final winner. 


If the book world is a thing of the 
past, then Yale exists in a time-warp. The 
senior prize, announced in mid-April, 
attracted 30 applicants this year, more 
than ever before. Book collecting, it 
seems, has a life here at Yale. Beinecke, 
which houses some of the most important 
collections of rare books that exist today, 
including some of Van Sinderen's, plays a 
significant role in the book world. 
Because of 
Beinecke~ 
location 
and 
New 
Haven's proximity to 
New York City, the 
center of the book world, 
Reese chose to stay and 
continue his collecting in New 
Haven once his Yale career 
ended. Reese started collecting in high 
school and started dealing in college. His 
collection on Americana won the 
Sophomore Book Collecting Prize, and his 
reference and bibliography books won the 
Senior Prize. His collection on Americana, 
now totaling 50,000 books, rests in two 
neighboring brownstones on a row of 
identical, Temple Street houses. 


Reese employs a staff to catalogue 
his ever-growing collection. Joseph Bray 
(TC '94), currently employed at William 
Reese Books, carries on the mysterious 
book collecting tradition. As a two time 
winner for his books on bees and bee-
keeping, Bray is expanding his collection 
from the original 20 for which he won 
during his sophomore year. He has used 
the money from the prizes, in addition to 
outside funds, to build his collection up 
to its present stature of 1,000 books and 
pamphlets. 


Bray's favorite items in his collection 
are the rare pamphlets written by 
nineteenth century beekeepers, who are 
typically "stubborn, old, hermit types." 
He was excited to discover the unresolved 
scandal of a crooked female dealer from 
Maine who ran a mail order bee-business 
in 
the 
1880s. 
Many beekeepers 
complained in their writings that she 
collected their money but never produced 
the hives. 


Bray, who keeps bees himself, is aided 
by the invaluable advice that his book 
collection provides. He is currently 
tending two hives in the backyard of the 
Beekeepers Association of Connecticut. 


The world of book collecting, like that 
of beekeeping, still exists. Indeed, 
although the glamour of New York City's 
Book Row has faded, the art of book 
collecting flourishes inconspicuously in 
Reese's houses on Temple Street. 
-Caroline Adams


**Title: Scientology 101**
**Author: Sara Harkavy**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

It was the oversized, three-
dimensional cross hanging on the 
door that first caught my eye. Its 
otherworldliness set it apart from the 
mundane commerciality of the strip 
mall. The image demanded closer 
inspection. As I peered into t he 
window, I noticed a sign in the doorway, 
offering free personality tests. I had come 
to the right place: the Whalley Avenue 
Church of Scientology. 


I opened the door and warily walked 
up the stairs leading to the main level. 
7 


Peter, an enthusiastic test proctor, was the 
first to greet me. His interrogation began 
immediately. Wherq did I live? What did I 
do for a living? Why had I come to the 
Church of Scientology? I told him that I 
was a Yale student looking to fill an 
increasing spiritual gap in my life. Peter 
rewarded my revelation with an 
impromptu sermon on the lack of 
spirituality at Yale. His litany 
bemoaned Yalies' misplaced 
priorities on grades and 
material success. Peter told 
me that the Church of 
Scientology would fill my 
spiritual void. The words of 
L. Ron Hubbard, the creator 
of Scientology, would fill the 
void that the words of my 
economics textbook could 
not. Then he gave me a 
personality test. 


The test ~as on a pink 
legal-sized piece of paper and 
was 
made 
up of 
160 
questions. Some of the questions were 
standard, like the one asking how 
frequently I experienced feelings of 
depression. I was surprised by a question 
that asked if I was prepared to accept a life 
of strict discipline. I worried that the 
question was assessing my readiness to 
join the Church of Scientology. I finished 
the test in about half an hour, and Peter 
took it to be scored by computer. 


Peter invited me to watch an 
instructional video while I waited for him 
to interpret the results of my personality 
test. The video was a montage of camera 
shots, voiced over by L. Ron Hubbard. A 
soundtrack played as Hubbard praised 
himself for finding the answers to life's 
questions and condemned others for being 
blind to his truths. The music was light 
and airy during images of the church and 
Hubbard, dark and foreboding during 
shots of universities and psychiatric 
hospitals. 


After the ten-minute video, Peter led 
me into another room so we could discuss 
8 
the test. He handed me a chan scaled 
between -100 and 100. A line graph 
showed me where I had placed in each of 
the categories: stable, happy, composed, 
certain, active, aggressive, responsible/ 
causative, correct estimation, and 
communication level. 


With the help of the chart, Peter 
showed me that I had problems to work 
out. He told me that the area of my life 
that needed immediate attention was my 
low happiness level and insisted that there 
was a destructive force in my life. Most 
likely a friend or family member was 
attempting to undermine my efforts to be 
happy. As I ran through a list of my family 
and closest friends in my head, I told 
Peter that I couldn't think of anyone who 
made me feel bad about myself. He was 
adamant, though, and told me that my 
lack of recognition was certainly a sign 
that I had internalized the criticism of the 
destructive force-whoever that might be. 


Peter suspended his analysis just long 
enough to ask me if I had told anyone 
about my feelings of unhappiness. When I 
told him I had not, his face brightened. 
The decision was for the best, he said, 
because people try to do "weird things" to 
unstable individuals like me. He seemed 
to think I needed protection from the 
insidious influences of freshmen 
counselors. They would only send me 
back to CCL to study more, so I could 
work more, so I could make more money, 
so I could do more drugs .... 


Peter pointed out that, in addition to 
my unhappiness I had a low "active" score. 
Appatently, I just did not do enough, 
academically or extracurricularly. When I 
expressed concern and a desire to change, 
Peter assured me that, although I didn't 
have the answers to my problems, 
Scientology did. 


After discussing my results, Peter got 
down to business. He suggested I buy a 
copy of Dian~tics, L. Ron Hubbard's 
treatise on Scientology. After I asked if I 
could check the book out of the library 
instead, he offered as an alternative that I 
purchase some $4 pamphlets. The 
pamphlets were excerpts from Dian~tics 
that would be especially helpful to me. 
Peter thought I might find some of the 
$75 courses helpful as well. I deferred for 
the moment, since I only had bus fare 
with me. Peter's face fell slightly at my 
refusal, but he didn't push. Instead, he let 
me know about the free lecture in two 
days. 


I didn't go back for the lecture. I also 
didn't buy the books. I didn't even check 
Dianetics out of the library as I had 
promised. But Peter's readings of my chart 
pushed a very big button. Taking five 
classes, writing for Yale publications, 
volunteering, and attending martial arts 
classes, I hadn't really considered myself 
inactive. But as soon as I got home, I 
called a tutoring organization and signed 
myself up. 
-Sara Harkavy


**Title: Going Guatemalan**
**Author: Lauren Goldy**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Liza Grandia appears to be your 
typical Yale senior. At 9 a.m., clad in a 
simple-knit sweater and blue jeans, she 
scrambles to eat her breakfast after a 
morning class. She is anxious to graduate, 
but unlike other seniors, she is not 
looking for a job at Goldman Sachs or 
Merrill Lynch. Instead, she is hoping to 
make her third trip to Peten, a small 
village in Guatemala where she first 
worked during a year-long leave of 
absence following her sophomore year. 


Grandia claims that before her trip she 
was "willing to go anywhere, do 
anything." Now she concedes that she was 
not entirely prepared for what she 
encountered in Peten. Some aspects of her 
adventure were out of her hands, such as 
the military coup in a nearby village just a 
week before her arrival or the flus and 
intestinal diseases that she caught. Other 
problems could have been avoided. 
Conservation International, for instance, 
had told her that she would be working 
on organized women's cooperatives. When 
she got there, she found that not only did 
they not exist, but the farmers were also 
all men. 


Finding housing also proved qifficult. 
On the third day after her arrival she was 
driven to the middle of the village. With 
minimal knowledge of Spanish, she was 
left alone. Grandia was fortunate to find a 
friendly host family, but living with up to 
eight other people in a one-room, 
thatched-roof house with neither running 
water nor electricity could not have 
seemed much like home. 


On, her first day of teaching, 
Grandia was startled when the young 
students, upon seeing her, bolted out 
of the room. She learned later that 
the children believed the local rumor 
that foreigners kidnap children to sell 
their organs for medical research. It 
took a long time both to convince 
them that she was not a murderer and 
to return them to class. 


Despite the headaches, Grandia 
describes her experience as a privilege. 
"Images of the Third World on the 
news are horrifying," she says. "What 
are people's daily lives like? I guess 
that is something that I really wanted 
to know because 75 percent of the 
world, lives in utter poverty." 


Grandia valued her experience so 
much that she decided to return to Peten 
last summer for three months. The close 
relationships that she had established with 
the villagers, especially the women, grew 
stronger. "It was really nice to go back and 
begin old friendships again," Grandia 
remarks. 


Now, Grandia is encouraging other 
Yalies to follow her example and try the 
Third World as an alternative workplace 
to law firms and Wall Street. As creator 
and head of a new job bank at Yale, 
Grandia is compiling a list of 
organizations that offer summer, term-
time, and post-graduate job opportunities 
in the nonprofit sector, especially in 
developing countries. Undergraduate 
Career Services will make the list available 
to students both on the Internet and in its 
resource library. 


"I just wanted to make this 
information accessible to students so that 
working in Ecuador would be as easy as 
getting a Proctor & Gamble internship," 
Grandia says. "Even if people don't 
necessarily devote the rest of their lives to 
working in the developing world, certainly 
the knowledge of economic poverty will 
be carried with them throughout their 
lives." 
-Lauren Goldy


**Title: The Missing $54**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
According to the Office of the Bursar, I still owed $54. 
Though I had taken out a loan for $1,350 this 
semester, Yale had only received $1 ,296. Somewhere in 
the maze of paperwork stretching froq1 the bank to 
Yale, 4 percent of my loan had disappeared. The cashier at the 
accounts office said it was routine for a small amount to be 
deducted from student loans, but she could not tell me why. 
My loan is just one of 6.7 million federal student loans the 
government guarantees each year. The federal government plays a 
small role compared to the host of private institutions that 
approve, issue, service, and insure student loans. Since the 
student loan program started three decades ago, federally 
guaranteed loans have spawned a $23 billion per year industry. As 
colleges raise tuition at twice the rate of inflation, more and more 
students must take out larger and larger 
loans. The student loan business is 
booming. If 4 percent of student 
loans really routinely disappear, 
close to $1 billion vanishes 
inexplicably each year. 

Taking 
the 
cashier's advice, 
I followed the 
missing $54 to the 
financial aid office. 
The financial aid 
officer that I spoke 
to began by ex-
plaining how my 
loan works. First, 
the federal govern-
ment authorized a 
Stafford Loan for 
me. Then I applied to 
a guaranty agency-
the Connecticut Student 
Loan Foundation-to guarantee my loan. After it approved my 
application, my lender, the New Haven Savings Bank, authorized 
the servicer it hires to handle its student loans-the Student 
Loan Marketing Association (or "Sallie Mae" to friends)-to 
dispense the. loan money to Yale. After I graduate, Sallie Mae and 
I will become much closer as I begin to make my monthly 
payments. 

As visions of foundations and associations danced in my 
head, the financial aid officer told me that for Stafford Loans 
such as mine, fees are deducted from the loan before the funds 
come to the school. In my case, 4 percent was taken out. Since 
the fees are lumped into my much larger tuition payment, I 
usually paid them without even noticing. She explained that part 
of the fees went to the New Haven Savings Bank and part went 
to the Connecticut Student Loan Foundation. 

Confused about thi~ last group, I asked, ''Are they a federal 
agency?" 

"No, they are a non-profit company that insures your 
loan for the bank in case you default," the officer answered. 

"I thought my loan was guaranteed by the federal 
government," I replied. 

"It is," 
she 
explained. 
"The 
government 
would 
pay 
Connecticut 
Student 
Loan 
Foundation if you default." 

More confused, I asked, "Why 
doesn't the government just pay 
the bank directly instead?" 

"I don't know," the financial 
aid officer said. 

My confusion led me to 
do some homework. 
The Stafford Loan is the 
centerpiece of the federal govern-ment's 
Guaranteed Loan Program, which dates back to 
Lyndon Johnson's Great Society. While banks write the 


--- Page 11 ---

What your bank doesn' t want you to know 
about the money it's making off of your 
student loan. 

checks to schools, the government guarantees the loan against 
default. The government also pays the interest that accrues on 
subsidized Stafford Loans while the student is still in school. 
Instead of paying millions of dollars to lenders, servicers, and 
guaranties on virtually risk-free investments, an alternative to the 
tangled web of the student loan business exists. In the early weeks 
of his Administration, President Bill Clinton (LAW '73) made 
good on his campaign promise to create the Direct Student Loan 
Program. Under the new Direct Loan Program, the federal 
government acts as the lender, s.ervicer, and guaranty for its 
student loans. Clinton originally envisioned replacing the 
Guaranteed Loan Program entirely, but Congress forced the 
Direct Loan Program to instead be phased in so that it now 
includes 30 percent of all federal student loans. Unfortunately, I 
cannot use it because Yale chooses not to participate in the new 
program. 

The trail of my missing $54 next led me to my lender, the 
New Haven Savings Bank. Joan Stellabotte, the student 
loan manager for New Haven Savings, assured me that 4 
percent worth of fees is deducted not just from my loans but 
from all Stafford Loans. The federal government, Joan said, 
charges the bank a 3 percent origination fee for each loan it 
makes, and the bank, in turn, passes the fee on to me. She 
explained that the fee is meant to recoup the government's 
processing costs. Since loans are new business for the banks, the 
origination fee is a sort of finder's fee charged by the government. 
Once the bank passes the fee on to the borrower, however, it 
becomes a surcharge on a government benefit-kind of like 
charging food stamp recipients a fee for their food stamps. The 
other 1 percent, Joan continued, goes to the Connecticut Student 
Loan Foundation. 

The fees are taken out of my loan check, so while I 
borrowed-and will have to pay back-the full $1,350 this 
semester, Yale only received $1,296. Now, the Bursar's office not 
only wants me to make up the $54 difference out of my pocket, 
but I will also have to pay back the money I never received on my 
loan. With interest, it will 
come to about $80. For the eight 
semesters that I borrow, the $134 in fees will add up to over 
$1,000. And I am a relatively small borrower. Students who 
borrow $17,125, the maximum Stafford Loan amount, will pay 
thousands of dollars in hidden fees alone. 

I asked Joan if I would have to pay these sort of fees on, for 
example, a new car loan. She said no, but countered that the 
interest rate would be much higher. Actually, when I checked the 
New Haven Savings Bank's rates for new car loans, I learned that 
the current interest rate is a quarter of a point lower. 

For banks, student loans are a lucrative source of revenue. 
While the government makes interest payments, the banks, in 
practice, face no financial risk. Granting a student loan, then, is 
as safe as holding a government bond, except the loan earns a 
much higher return. The bank collects 8.25 percent interest on a 
Stafford Loan, but only about 6 percent on a government bond. 
In the multi-billion dollar student loan market, a difference of 
2.5 percent translates into hundreds of millions of dollars. 

After the visit to the financial aid office, I was still confused 
about the difference between the lender (New Haven Savings) 
and the servicer (Sallie Mae). Joan told me that although New 
Haven Savings owns the loan right now, Sallie Mae will buy the 
loan from the bank after I graduate and will collect my payments. 
Wondering why Sallie Mae would buy the debt, I asked if New 
Haven Savings sells the loan at a discount, but Joan told me that 
the bank gets full value. In the meantime, she continued, the 
federal government pays the New Haven Savings Bank any 
interest that accrues on my loan. So, when the bank faces any risk 
on the loan (the risk that I will not pay it back), the bank collects 
the full balance on the loan, already having made a killing in 
government interest payments. Of course, the loan is stilL 
guaranteed by the government when Sallie Mae owns it. Sallie 
Mae will then make a killing in interest directly from me. When I 
explained the bank and Sallie Mae's deal to my roommate, an 
economics major, he exclaimed, "What a great business!" 

Proponents of the Direct Loan Program praise it for 


--- Page 12 ---

**Title: The Student Loan Mess**
**Author: Gabriella Snyder**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
defaulted loans rather chan prevent 
students from defaulting in the first place. 


Since the federal 
government 
guarantees student loans, Bob 
Shireman, legislative director for 
Senator Paul Simon (D-Ill.), argued that 
no one in the student loan system has any 
incentive to prevent defaults. "No one 
other than the government risks anything 
if students massively default," Shireman 
explained. Everyone, from the banks to 
the guaranties, will get 
paid no 
w 
h a 
t 
Shireman 
noted, 
"The. bank doesn't care if they do a good 
job collecting. The guaranty agency is 
supposed co enforce that." 

Even though the guaranties are non-
profit companies, executives within these 
groups have proven adept at cashing in on 
the non-profit student loan business for 
big pay-offs. Stories of steep salaries and 
extravagant perks for executives at student 
loan 
guaranties 
abound 
among 
Congressional supporters of student loan 
reform. According to Rep. Petri, one 
guaranty CEO is reported co make over 
$700,000-quice a lavish salary for the 
head of a non-profit organization. At the 
same guaranty, the Representative noted 
that 15 other employees receive higher 
salaries than the Secretary of Education. 

One common trick-of-the-trade fo r 
executives at guaranty agencies is to set 
up businesses that only serve the guaranty 
and then collect che profits off the 
businesses. For example, one guaranty's 
executives sec up a telecommunications 
business and then leased phones from it 
for $81,720 a year. 

Like banks, guaranties fear the 
reforms of the Direct Loan Program and 
have been lobbying against it in Congress. 
Shireman explained that under 
the Direct Loan Program, 
"There would be 
no such thing 
as 
guaranty 
agenctes stnce 
no 
bank 
would 
be 
involved tn 
the loan." 

Finally 
seeing where my 
$54 had gone-to lazy 
banks, fat non-profits, and 
a few Republican fundraisers-
I hauled myself back to the Office of the 
Bursar and wrote out my check. Leaving 
the office with a dent in my checking 
account, I shuddered at the thought of 
the monthly loan payments just a few 
years away. Unless I land a top-paying 
job, the $200 monthly payment will be a 
hefty bill co carry. 

Maybe I should follow my roommate's 
advice and go into student loans. 
laJ 
Gabri~i Snyda, a sophomor~ in B~rk~iry 
Coii~g~. is managing ~ditor ofTNJ. An 
~arii~r vasion of this artie/~ app~ar~d on 
Student.N~t. and can 
b~ found at 
http://www.studmt. n~t. 


**Title: Manipulating Their Own Media**
**Author: Marisa Galvan**
**Page number(s): 14**

"let's go take pictures of Mr. Christleyl" The 
third-graders scamper down the hallway, 
cameras in hand, frantically searching for 
their next subject. 

Taking pictures is exciting and more fun. Usually 
adults don't let us use equipment like that, but now 
they trust us. 
-Alyssa, age eight 

Robert Price, a third-grade teacher at 
Lincoln Bassett Elementary School, is not 
afraid of letting his students use cameras, 
whether 35mm or digital. Actually, he 
thinks it's critical. 

"I've done workshops with other 
teachers who worry about letting their kids 
use such expensive equipment as learning 
tools. But the only one who has dropped 
the digital camera so far is me," says Price. 

Over the past year, the students in 
Price's class have taken photographs in and 
around school, designed World Wide Web 
sites, and made lifesize images of 
themselves, called "stand-ups," to place 
around New Haven. These multimedia 
activities are the result of Lincoln Bassett's 
after school resources and New Haven 
community programs like Leadership, 
Education, Athletics in Partnership 
(L.E.A.P.). 

Price's use of up-to-date, high-tech 
tools creates an atmosphere of "respect and 
trust," the key to his teaching style. 

"These are real tools for real people, 
and if you believe in kids, they will believe 
in themselves," he says. "If kids learn to 
manipulate the media, they'll learn when 
they're being manipulated." 

I8J 
-Marisa Ga/v~z, a fr~shman in Ezra 
Stiks Co/kg~, is photography ~ditor ojTNJ. 
All photos by stutknts in Rob"t Prius third-
gratk class. 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Lamont**
**Page number(s): 15**

It's fun, when people are doing something in the pictures, it makes you laugh. I 
like taking pictures of motorcycles, cars, and computers. 
-Lamont, age nine. 


**Title: The Blurred Lines of Cheating at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
arly on the morning of December 19, the students of 
Langdon Hammer's Contemporary American Literature 
class took their places in a crowded Linsly-Chittenden 
lecture hall. With only a few minutes remaining before the 
final exam, students flipped nervously through a semester's worth of 
notes. They double-checked their backup ballpoints and folded back 
the covers of their blue books. 
But some of these students thought they had nothing to worry 
about. They expected the exam co be a piece of cake. They believed 
they had seen the questions beforehand. 

Several days prior to the final, some students had obtained what 
they thought was a copy of the exam. They called friends. The 
information spread. Some students even gathered to memorize the 
questions. Students speculated about the source of the informacion 
but were hesitant to reveal where or with whom it originated. A 
persistent rumor suggested that a TA's review session was the source, 
which implied that the information was legitimate. 

In the context of the Graduate Employees and Students 
Organization's (GESO) impending grade strike, anxiety was at a 
fever pitch within the Yale community. Undergraduates, in 
particular, worried that the strike would result in an arbitrary 
assignment of grades if professors attempted to hastily give marks 
during the TAs' absence. Out of the intensifying hysteria 
surrounding the grade strike, the issue of cheating surfaced. The 
blurriness of exactly what constituted "cheating" became an issue for 
closer scrutiny. 

Students in Hammer's course only really began to wrestle with 
the possibility that they had cheated once the exam was over. One 
student left two anonymous messages for Professor Hammer (BK 
'80). Another wrote a short letter to him expressing conce_rn about 
the notes he had obtained from a review session. After seeing the 
exam, he worried that the notes had provided him with more 
information than he should have had. In response to the student's 
letter, Hammer (BK '80), an associate professor of English, 
approached the teaching fellow in question. He was satisfied that 
what had transpired was nothing more than a thorough review 
session. "I would be vety concerned about it if students felt there 
was something wrong before the exam and did not come forward to 
myself or to the teaching fellow," says Hammer. "It's one thing if a 
teaching fellow says some things in a review session, and it's more 
than should be said. It's another thing for students to walk away 
from a review session feeling that they are in possession of the exam 
and feeling guilty and secretive. If that were the case, I would want 
to know about it immediately." 

In order to address cheating, one needs to be able to identify it. 
Yale seems to have a problem doing that. About half of the cases that 
come before the Executive Committee are related to cheating and 
plagiarism. Rogers Smith (Hon. MA '90), the current Ex Comm 
Chair and professor of political science, believes, "It is clear that it is 
a recurring and not too unusual phenomenon at Yale." But a 
complicating factor lies in the difficulty in assigning blame: is it the 
students' fault? theTAs'? the professors'? To localize blame overlooks 


young man smiled sheepishly. There was a measure of 
in his voice as he talked about his fraternity. They have 
plans in the upcoming year. They intend to conduct a 
fundraising events in support of local charities. They hope to 
buy a new house. But more significantly, they have created a new 
position within the organization: Director of Scholarship. His smile 
widened, became more sheepish. The Director of Scholarship, he 
said, will be in charge of organizing the "academic files" housed in -
the fraternity, which currently stand in a state of disarray. The three 
scrambled-up file cabinets that represent the contributioqs of past 
and present members-the midterms, problem sets, and labs of 
years past-will be assembled methodicaJiy for easy access by 
fraternity brothers and their friends. 

Yale does not have a clear policy on this time-honored tradition's 
legality. Smith says, "It depends 
whether the professor has 
indicated that previous exams 
could not be used. A student is 
culpable if the professor asked 
the student not to. Many 
professors don't do that, in 
which case I think it's perfectly 
fine if students look at previous 
exams." This places students 
who cannot get their hands on 
old material at a distinct 
disadvantage. 

"Yale should draw the line 
in the dirt. It should declare old 
1 exams, problem sets, and papers 
taboo," says Matt Prout (PC 
'96) vehemently. As a Molecular 
Biophysics and Biochemistry 
(MB&B) major, he has taken 
his fair share of Group IV 
courses and has been frustrated 
time and again by the 
ambiguity of Yale's policy on recrtied information. He is fed up with 
a system that rewards students who have access to tests. Talking it 
over with other students-a personal project of his-has provided a 
forum for thinking through possible solutions. 

Alex Krulic (PC '96), a student representative on the Ex Comm, 
has joined Prout in this discussion. He believes that Yale should 
establish a black and white policy regarding the use of old material. 
"Old exams should either be part of the public record or their use 
should be prohibited entirely." What the rwo agree on is that there 
must be some clarification of policy. The ethics governing the use of 
information cannot remain as they are, half-obscured and little 
considered. 

approach assumes that professors will monitor the use of 
material. Certain professors, for instance, place old exams 
reserve in libraries to be used as study guides. Students 
have equal access to the material. This eliminates fear of an 
unfair curv(:). For this system to function properly, the professor 
must change the questions on labs and exams each semester. This 
does not always happen. It is a well-known fact to undergraduates 



**Title: But some students blame themselves.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
But some students 
blame themselves. A student 
in Associate Professor Malcolm 
Boshier's Physics 200a class 
bombed her first exam. Because 
Boshier was known to recycle 
questions with some regularity, a 
friend offered her a copy of the 
preceding year's exam from a fraternity's 
archive. Worried that the professor would 
wise up to them, students with the exam 
kept it quiet. "We didn't know how many 
people knew. We thought it would be really 
nice if he kept doing this." The morning of 
the second exam rolled around. The student 
had been up late the night before studying 
the old exam. She entered the exam room 
feeling guilty. "I was terrified that the exam 
would be exactly the same. I was scared I 
was going to get a grade I didn't deserve." 
She found that about half of the questions 
were precisely those she had studied from 
the fr.aternity exam. She continued to use 
old exams to study, but her conscience 
nagged her. 


J\j
ulture of cheating thrives because 
scenarios like the one that occurred 
n Boshier's class happen frequently 
at Yale. They usually remain undetected or 
unproved. Professors and TAs may have 
their suspicions that something funny is 
going on, but there is often no hard 
evidence. Amy Francis (GRD '96), a TA in 
MB&B, is certain that cheating goes on all 
the time right under her nose. "We do have 
a feeling for whether students are 
understanding or not. You get a totally 
clueless person handing you a beautiful 
piece of work. You can't say 'Listen, this 
doesn't sound 
like you, you 
sound like an 
idiot in class.' I 
assume that it's their 
own work. I'm just 
never going to know." 
But the equation 
just doesn't add up. If cheatin g is as 
common as these people suggest, especially 
in Group IV courses, then the lack of 
response by the administration remains a 
mystery. Why doesn't each of us know a 
dozen peers who have suffered consequences 
for their actions? 
The answer may be that students are 
being caught but not punished. According 
to Zilm, the faculty in his department 
hesitate to even bring cases with hard 
evidence to the Ex Comm. He describes 
faculty members who have taken actions 
against students as once-bitten, twice-shy. 
The scenario goes something like this: after 
just one too many humiliations in which 
the disciplinary body didn't even give a slap 
on the wrist to an offending student in what 
the department felt to be a cut and dry case, 
the faculty loses faith. When the Ex Comm 
does not act, the faculty takes matters into 
its own hands. "A professor may feel that 
the strongest thing he can do is to have it 
affect the student's grade. There is not a 
disciplinary body to back up the faculty." 
Tricia Serio (GRD '97), also a TA in 
MB&B, lays the blame elsewhere. She says 
that it is not so much the lack of a Yale 
disciplinary response, but apathy on the 
part of professors that fosters cheating. In 
one instance, a student of hers plagiarized 
directly from a published research journal. 


**Title: Yale's Southern Accent**
**Author: Garry L. Reeder II**
**Page number(s): 21**

Yale's Southern Accent 
From April 9 to September l, the lobby of Sterling Memorial 
Library will display the exhibit, "Elms and Magnolias: Old Blue in a 
Coat of Gray," curated by junior Garry L. Reeder II. The photos, 
artwork, and literature in the exhibit were collected by Reeder over 
two years of independent research. Reeder discusses the ties between 
Yale and the South in this article, a companion to the exhibit. 
0 
ne evening on the Old Campus in 1819, over 100 
years before the gothic imports arrived and when the 
brick row still stood strong, a secession crisis held 
hostage one of Yale's rwo literary societies. On the rop 
floor of the Georgian-Colonial brick Lyceum, the university's 
chapel and library on the Old Campus, a face-off began within 
the Linonia Society. 
Two candidates, one northern, one southern, were being 
considered for president of the society. The northern candidate 
emerged victorious, and a southern party of 32 students within 
the Linonia Society walked out and formed the Calliopean 
Society. Whether the walkout was sectional or personal in origin 
remains unclear, but the Calliopean became the society of choice 
for southerners until its dissolution in 1853. Without the 
residential college system, the dormitories on the Old Campus, or 
the Political Union, these literary societies formed the major 
avenues of social and intellectual interaction. Only those who 
belonged to a society could use its books and attend its meetings 
and debates. In the same year that the Calliopean was formed, the 
national debate over the admission of Missouri into the Union as 
either a free or slave state was on the minds of most Americans. 
The formation of the Calliopean Society foreshadowed the course 
that history was to take 40 years later. 
The national dilemma of sectionalism which cook hold of the 
Qj 
Yale campus and eventually killed its sons can be traced to rwo of § 
Yale's most pro.minent students, Eli Whitney (B.A. 1792) and ~ 
John C. Calhoun (B.A. 1804). Whitney, a resident of New 
~ 
.. 
Haven, played an unexpected, yet pivotal role in the advent of the ~ 
Civil War. The summer after his graduation Whitney went into 
the South to visit the widow of General Nathaniel Greene, a hero 
: 
of the American Revolution. There he invented the cotton gin. ;; 
His invention corona ted "King Cotton," transformed the ~ 
southern economy, and in turn changed the nature of American 
.<: 
slavery. The cotton gin made the production of cotton quick and "-
profitable throughout the South by increasing the production 
potential and value of slaves. After returning to New Haven and 
Garry L. Reeder II 
failing to secure a patent for his cotton gin, Whitney was awarded 
a contract from the federal government for 10,000 guns. To fill 
this order, he opened a gun factory, the Whitney Armory in New 
Haven, and introduced interchangeable parts. This marked the 
beginning of the Industrial Revolution in America, forever 
changing the northern economy. Ironically, the guns that were 
produced at Whitney's New Haven gun factory would later be 
used in a war over slavery. 
M
any of the South's most prominent sons came to Yale in 
the first half of the nineteenth century out of their cult-
like adoration for John C. Calhoun. In 1830, 69 
southerners were enrolled at Yale, compared to 17 at Princeton 
and 16 at Harvard. However, this preference for Yale among the 
Ivy League schools should not be misinterpreted as evidence of 
I:.~J,s nJJt/ .1/ngno/ias: 
Old 'Blue 
i11 r1 C.ont of 
·Yale 



**Title: Thinking of Home: William Faulkner's Letters to His Mother and Father 1918-1925**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
peaceful relations between northern and 
southern students. Many of those attracted 
to Yale by Calhoun's influence formed the 
Calliopean Society, a by-product of the 
slowly dissolving Union. 

John C. Calhoun of South Carolina, 
the valedictorian of his class, was the most 
influential American politician to graduate 
from Yale during its first two centuries. 
During his long tenure in U.S. politics, he 
held the positions of Congressman, 
Secretary of War, Vice President, Secretary 
of State, and Senator. Calhoun's numerous 
letters to Yale faculty and alumni reflect 
his sense of connection to Yale. New 
Haven, a bastion· of Federalist support for 
a strong central government in the Early 
Republic, solidified Calhoun's anti-
federalist, states' rights commitments. 

The pro-southern sentiments of 
Calhoun and the Calliopean Society, 
however, represent only one perspective of 
antebellum southerners at Yale. One man 
in particular, Cassius M. Clay of Kentucky 
(B.A. 1832), stood in stark contrast with 
many of his fellow southern students. Clay 
complicates many preconceived notions 
about the homogeneity of the antebellum 
South and about the southern experience 
at Yale. Rather than reacting negatively to 
the opposing viewpoints of his new 
environment, he embraced them and 
returned to the South with a new vision. 

Even though he was the son of a 
slaveholder, Clay became one of the 
South's leading abolitionists after hearing 
the fiery rhetoric of the abolitionist 
champion William Lloyd Garrison in New 
Haven. During the Civil War, Clay 
intermittently served as a major-general of 
the Union Army and as Minister to 
Russia. 

In the ten years leading up to the Civil 
War, the campus and the city saw the 
warning signs of the coming violence. In 
1853, the Calliopean Society dissolved, 
and many southerners returned to the 
South. When the society disbanded, the 
center of southern social and intellectual 
life collapsed and southern enrollment 
plummeted. In 1850, 72 southerners were 
enrolled at Yale, 65 at Harvard, and 115 at 
Princeton. By 1860, only 33 remained at 
Yale while Harvard and Princeton 
remained stable with 63 and 113 
respectively. The dramatic increases in the 
numbers of southerners at H?-rvard and 
Princeton can be attributed, in part, to 
those universities' shifts away from a local 
perspective to a national one by mid-
century. For the southern students who 
remained, the sectional instability only 
increased. 

Sunday morning, January 20, 1861, 
the national secession crisis rocked 
the Yale campus when students and 
professors awoke to find a secession flag 
flying above Alumni Hall on the Old 
Campus. During the night, Southern 
students had broken into the building and 
raised the flag up the flagpole. It had a 
large white background with a red cross in 
the center that spanned the flag's length 
and width. Depicted in the upper left-
hand corner was the crescent moon and 
palmetto tree associated with the state of 
South Carolina. Northern students 
stormed the building, but they found the 
locks plugged with nails and the 
doorknobs removed. After failing to break 
open the doors, they found a back 
entrance, which they used to climb to the 
roof. Once on the roof, they tore down the 
flag and took back Alumni Hall. This 
event made national headlines when the 
following issue of Harper's Weekly reported 
the confrontation and illustrated the chaos 
with three on-the-scene sketches. Unlike 
the majority of Ivy League schools during 
the secession crises, Yale did not expel its 
southern students at the outbreak of the 
war, though the war itself would draw 
many men back home. 

The Civil War began in 1861 and 
would not loosen its grip until 600,00Q 
Americans-166 Yale men-were dead·. 
The issues fueling the backroom squabbles 
of a student organization were brought out 
into the open and decided on the 
battlefield. Of those killed, 55 were 
Confederate, 48 from Yale College, and 
seven from the Yale Law School. The 
casualty rates for Union and Confederate 
Yale students were vastly different: 69 
percent of Confederates, while only 13 
percent of the Union alumni, were killed. 

In· 1915, the names of both Union and 
Confederate dead were carved in the 
freshly cut marble of the Woolsey 
Rotunda. Yale students' important 
contribution to the Confederacy, however, 
came not on the battlefield but within the 
government. 

The Confederacy's Attorney General 
Judah P. Benjamin (B.A. 1828) was later 
appointed Secretary of War. Benjamin was 
the highest-ranking Yale man on either 
side of the conflict. He had been expelled 
before graduating for reasons still 
contested today. The official records say 
that he was expelled for "cheating," but 
there is no further elaboration on the 
charge. He was at the top of his class and 
there are no signs that he cheated on his 
academic work. It has been assumed that 
he was cheating at cards or engaged in 
some other form of gambling on campus. 

Yale men also held power within the


--- Page 23 ---

private sphere of the Confederacy. Burton 
N. Harrison (B.A. 1845) was Jefferson 
Davis's private secretary; Richard Taylor 
(B.A. 1845) was Davis's son-in-law and 
President Zachary Taylor's son. 

It would be easy to conclude that the 
return of southern alumni to Yale and 
the voyages of new southern students 
would be strained by the events of the 
early 1860s, but the divisions did not 
settle as deeply as in many of the other Ivy 
League schools. Boston, where Harvard is 
located, was the seat of abolition. Brown 
had expelled its southern students during 
the war. Yale was thus left in a better 
position to restore post-war ties with the 
South. Only Princeton fared better, with 
its Presbyterian tradition and long-
standing complacence toward slavery. 

Alumni from the South rerurned to Yale as 
early as 1866, and by the 1870s, ivy from 
Robert E. Lee's house was planted on the 
Old Campus during Commencement to 
symbolize the reconciliation of the 
Confederacy with the rest of the nation. 

With the arrival of the twentieth century, 
the South would help transform Yale into 
a great research university. 

though the country was reunified 
and moving toward international 
prominence, the North and South 
were developing in different ways. Jim 
Crow thrived in the South, and the 
Robber Barons began to dominate the 
national economy. The aristocracy, which 
had sent its sons to Yale, saw a new 
capitalist, urban culture emerge. New 
money from northern industrialists such 
as the Vanderbilts, Sterlings, and 
Harknesses 
supported 
the 
rapid 
construction of the residential colleges, 
library, and graduate school. Social life 
began to revolve around secret societies, 
eating clubs, and the other groups formed 
from the ranks of New England's 
prestigious and elite boarding schools. 

Southerners entered a social order 
dominated by this group and felt it 
necessary to form their own brotherhood. 
The Southern Club first appeared in 
the Yale Banner in 1895. Between 1895 
and 1905, their logo portrayed 
persistent racial stereotypes, 
depicting alcohol, guns, and 
women. One of the early 
club logos depicted two 
Sambo-like black men 
chasing a chicken 
down the street. 

These logos suggest 
a 
reliance 
on 
entrenched 
stereotypes 
and 
icons of southern 
life in the face of a 
new and unfamiliar 
social 
elite. 

The 
Southern Club had 
chapters on the majority 
of the Ivy League campuses. 
An April 1898 article in the 
Atlanta journal reported the annual 
meeting of the Southern Clubs that was 
held at Harvard that year. The members 
ate, drank, sang "Dixie," and discussed the 
contributions of southerners in the Ivy 
League. 

The Southern Renaissance in 
literature and the emergence of 
southern universities, in the first 
decades of the twentieth century, created a 
new generation of southern intellectuals 
and writers who gained national attention. 
Yale's urban New 
England setting gave 
many southerners the 
opportunity to begin the 
process of understanding 
the South. 

As these·changes occurred in the South, 
Yale was expanding and opening its doors 
to a larger portion of the American 
population. New professors without Yale 
degrees and students without New 
England pedigrees began to arrive in New 
Haven. 

One of the best-known figures of the 
Southern Renaissance, William Faulkner, 
carne to New Haven in April 1918. Living 
an apartment at 120 York 
Street, Faulkner worked in 
the Winchester Arms 
Factory while visiting 
his friend Phil Stone 
(B.A. '14, LAW '18). 

Faulkner's letters 
from New Haven 
to his parents in 
Mississippi offer a 
glimpse into the 
life 
of 
southerner living 
at Yale in the 
beginning of the 
twentieth century. 

He was intrigued by 
the lack of African-
Americans in New Haven 
and the surprisingly large 
number of southerners living in 
the city itself. The popular obsession with 
the clock and the other trappings of 
industrialization, such as trolleys, trains, 
and large factories, were both fascinating 
and annoying to Faulkner. He found the 
people friendly and interesting, although 
excessively preoccupied with status and 
tradition. Many literary critics argue that 
Faulkner's Quentin Compson of Absalom, 
Absalom! and The Sound and the Fury are 
based on the author's observations of Yale 
and New Haven. In 1942, Yale became the


--- Page 24 ---

first university to exhibit Faulkner's 
writings, since much of his work was out 
of print. 

The social and academic scene became 
more integrated as the residential college 
system replaced the eating clubs and other 
elite groups, with the exception of the 
secret societies. The emphasis on research 
brought new professors from the South in 
the 1930s. The faculty of the history an~ 
English departments benefited greatly 
from this infusion of southerners. Among 
the new names were Ulrich Bonnell 
Phillips, a historian of the Old South; 
David M. Potter (GRD '36), a student of 
Phillips and a historian of America and 
the South; Mary Wright, a historian of 
China and the first woman to be tenured 
at Yale; Cleanth Brooks, a literary critic; 
Robert Penn Warren (M.A. '28), an 
author and poet. Phillips and Potter were 
influential in shaping the discipline of 
American history, while Brooks and 
Warren, through their founding of a 
school of literary criticism known as New 
Criticism, reshaped the way students read 
literature. The presence of these 
luminaries attracted more southern minds, 
such 
as one of America's 
most 
distinguished historians, Sterling Emeritus 
Professor C. Vann Woodward, who 
replaced Potter in 1961. 

The more democratic Yale also 
opened its doors to a group of 
southerners that were merging into 
the American mainstream: African-
Americans. In the late 1960s and early 
1970s, African-Americans were admitted 
in sizable numbers for the first time. 
During these first few years, John 
Blassingame (GRD '71) and Henry Louis 
Gates, Jr. (CC '73) came to Yale as


**The Southern Yale Experience**
**Author: Garry L. Reeder II**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
students. Blassingame, a history professor 
at Yale, and Gates, the W. E. B. Dubois 
Professor of Humanities and Chairman of 
the African-American studies department 
at Harvard, are now two of the 
preeminent scholars of African-American 
life, past and present. Both came from the 
rural South to New Haven and Yale 
during the last years of the Civil Rights 
movement, the Bobby Seale trial, and the 
Black Panthers. The incong.ruity of a rural 
southern African-American at a wealthy, 
elite university in an urban setting created 
unique tensions and new ways of 
understanding the South and the 
relationship of African-Americans to the 
South. 

Professor Edward Ayers (GRD. '80), 
Kenan Professor of History at the 
University of Virginia, said, "Yale, in 
short, made me see the South through eyes 
other than my own. In a very real sense, it 
gave me the South." Now one of the 
foremost scholars of the American South, 
Ayers came to Yale with no overwhelming 
interest in the region of his birth but left 
with a new vision. 

Yale's 
urban 
New 
England 
environment gave many southerners the 
opportunity to begin the process of 
understanding the South. They defined 
the South for themselves but also for the 
others around them. Exploring the lives of 
nearly three centuries of southern Yalies, 
the stereotypes of both the South and New 
England dissolve. In their place, new ways 
of seeing emerge attesting to the many 
Souths that exist within the past and the 
present. 

OBI 
Garry L. Rud~r II is a junior in Jonathan 
Etiwards Co/kg~. 


**Stanley's Crusade**
**Author: Eva Bonime**
**Page number(s): 27**

'' Y:ou foolish, nai've, gullible woman ... They're trying to 
trick you .. .l have the Truth ... Can I give you a list of 
good doctors?" A van stands parked on the corner of 
Humphrey and State Streets, plastered with bumper 
stickers and proudly displaying posters on its front and back that 
read THEY'RE KILLING BABIES HERE. Beside the van, 72-year old 
Stanley paces back and forth as he tries relentlessly to lead hundreds 
of misguided women to the "Truth." The women he addresses 
outside Women's Health Services range from physicians to teenagers 
to child-toting mothers, but he spends the majority of his time 
talking and arguing with the clinic escorts-Yale students and New 
Haven residents who volunteer to protect women from Stanley's 
harassment. 

Besides his oversized snow boots, newsboy hat, gray car coat, 
Stanley 
gloves duct-taped at the fingertips, and green polyester pants, which 
have gone out of style and come back since he's owned them, 
Stanley also wears a blown-up newspaper mounted on cardboard. 
The sign rests on his bent forearms and remains wedged tightly in 
place underneath his chin, emphasizing an unusually strong and 
weathered jaw. The article tells the story of a woman who died in a 
hospital after trying to give herself ------------------------- an abortion in an alley, because she 
couldn't raise the money for the 
clinical procedure. Pro-choice 
activists usually claim this type of 
Story as one of their strongest 
arguments for legal and funded abortion, but Stanley has embraced 
it as a major part of his crusade, muttering repeatedly, day after day, 
"What a way to go. On the table, killing your baby." He considers 
this death the worst kind because if the woman is on the table under 
anesthesia, she cannot repent to God and must therefore go to Hell. 

A different side of Stanley appears when he deals with men. 
Rather than the fact-spouting and preaching that he uses to save 
women, Stanley turns into a schoolboy. His face takes on the 
countenance of a small child, and he approaches the men and 
whispers to them, as though he is disclosing important man-to-man 
secrets. He makes one of his more abstract remarks after a man 
walks by and yells at him one day. Stanley turns to the escorts and 
says, "People here are weird. The lezzies and the homos are ruin,ing 
the neighborhood." Women are usually afraid to talk to him, 
because he is prone to following them down the sueet when they 
leave the clinic, but most of the men enjoy arguing with him. They 
often tell him to get a job and swear at him, which Stanley always 
takes to mean they have something on their conscience. He taunts, 


**Title: "Did you have an abortion in your past?"**
**Author: Eva Bonim~**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Did you have an abortion in your past?" 
Stanley likes to repeat himself, especially 
when he comes up with a particularly clever 
idea or phrase. These phrases often evolve 
into schoolyard-type chants, such as, "Your 
mother gave you life." Another favorite is 
the cliched yet singable "a-BOR-tion is 
MUR-der." He elaborates on this slogan, 
by challenging everyone to check in 
Webster's Dictionary and see that the 
definitions for "abortion" and "murder" are 
identical: "the willful taking of human life." 
Another common chant is "You're the 
loser," or variations such as, "Don't be a 
loser. Be a winner." He complains that 
people change the meanings of words and 
now spell the word "love" L-U-S-T. From 
this concept, he sometimes progresses to the 
enigmatic chant, "When you love, you only 
have small problems. When you love, you 
only have small problems." 


A
apport bordering on affection 
develops between Stanley and the 
scores. They greet each other in the 
morning, engage in lengthy discussions, and 
even share an understanding of certain 
rules. He vacillates between mean name-
calling and a subtle appreciation of their 
company. On one beautiful day, he looks up 
gratefully and asks with great profundity, 
"Why is the sky blue?" to which an escort 
explains the physical 
concepts of 
wavelengths and color. Wearing the face of a 
proud father, Stanley counters, "God made 
it that way." On another day, he decides to 
quote Shakespeare to illustrate his often-
stared point that if you're lying to yourself, 
you'll never be happy. Trying to say, "To 
thine own self be true," he fumbles with the 
words until deciding that it means, "If 
you're not true to others, you can't be true 
to yourself." He becomes confused when he 
notices that something doesn't sound quite 
right ·and starts to reverse his logic, 
eventually returning to h is initial 
interpretation. He then explains that·he has 
never read Shakespeare. He should, but he 
doesn't have the time. That's for leisure, and 
he has too many other things to do. 


His childlike manner can also 
unexpectedly express itself as harsh cruelty. 
One day, when an escort asks him why he 
never yells at the men since they are equally 
responsible for pregnancies, he shouts in 
reply, "It's the women who are consenting 
to sex. Why are you women consenting to 
have sex with every Tom, Dick, and Harry?" 
When an Asian woman who counsels 
victims of rape and domestic violence in the 
clinic steps out of her car and smiles at the 
escorts, Stanley calls, "Hey, it's the smiling 
Chinese woman!" Over the various 
exclamations of shock emitted by the 
escorts and other people standing outside, 
be asks her if she is going to go murder 
babies, too. He has no qualms about 
describing his favorite story of a woman 
dying from a botched illegal abortion as a 
patient walks toward the clinic with her 
small children, who are bewildered by the 
old man yelling at their mother. 


Stanley gets angry at the escorts because, 
he says, they're helping make abortions 
happen. He often tells them that the Devil 
has got them under his control. He argues 
one day, more eloquently than usual, "The 
women all have the ambulatory capacity to 
walk themselves to the door," meaning that 
the escorts are unnecessary. "You're as 
helpful as-" He pauses, searching for ~ 
simile. "You're like a pimple. You're about as 
useful as a pimple on a face." At this 
pronouncement he basks in self-satisfaction 
for a few moments, and then continues, 
"You know what I mean? It's useless." 


0 
n his more genial days, Stanley has 
been known to compliment the 
escorts for being dedicated, even if 
their morals are wrong. "Where are the 
people on the life side?" he laments. Seeing 
two escorts, both female, walk arm-in-arm, 
he smiles and asks tauntingly if they are 
going steady. Remembering a moment later 
that the escorts don't tolerate this sort of 
comment, he hastily returns to his 
schoolboy defensiveness and insists, "I can 
say thar. That's harmless." When he 
inquires about an escort's AIDS Awareness 
ribbon, she asks him if he wants one. He 
refuses, for fear that it might be 
"misunderstood." People might think he 
was one of those liberal-minded people, the 
people who don't believe in the Truth. Since 
many of the escorts are Yale students, 
Stanley frequently reminds them that he is 
older and has the Truth, saying, "You know 
what your opinion's worth? It's worth about 
three cents." One escort a$ks him why 
people in such highly educated areas tend to 
be pro-choice. "Education corrupts," he 
says. 


though Stanley's Truth is 
bsolute, it still must yield to 
ederal and state law. He has 
faced several lawsuits, and is forbidden to 
step on the property of Women's Health 
Services. His expenses are mainly lawsuits 
and transportation, since he splits his time 
between the clinics in New Haven and 
Bridgeport, thirty minutes away. Kept 
several feet from the escorts and the door to 
the clinic-a parking lot serves as a buffer 
zone between the sidewalk and the 
building-Stanley tells everyone who walks 
toward the door that ''I'm not allowed on 
the property, because I have the Truth." He 
entreats them to come to him. As he follows 
a woman down the street one morning, a 
policeman pulls up in his car and says, 
"That's harassment, Stanley. You were in 
court last week." 


Stanley's main purpose in coming to the 
clinic is to save these foolish women who 
are being deceived by the abortion doctors. 
With a mixture of smugness and 
indignation in his voice, he explains that the 
doctors are tricking women in order to 
make money. "Women's Health Services? 
That's just a front. This place would go out 
of business if they weren't doing abortions." 
Aiming his voice at the second-story 
window-the room where the abortion 
procedures take place-he spends the day 
trying to spread his saving Truth. When the 
day is over, he packs his stroller and his 
Virgin Mary back into the van and drives 
away, muttering to himself, "You foolish, 
naive, gullible women ... foolish ... na"ive ... 
gullible ... foolish women." 


**Title: What I Learned from the Strike of '96**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 30**

Look around Yale and you'll see lots of aloof humanities 
majors and Science Hill geeks walking around with their 
heads in the clouds. Without any useful skills, dependent 
on others to feed and clean up after them, Yalies are 
frightening examples of human frailty and weakness. In response 
to this epidemic of fragility, the administration has taken action. 
Determined that every undergrad take a term in the Sterling 
School of Hard Knocks (SSHK), Yale has provoked a work 
stoppage so that it might send its students out to walk the 
pavement of the mean streets of New Haven. Who says Yale isn't 
responsive to student needs? 


The administration's message to students is clear: "Return to 
your roots as a hunter and a gatherer. Learn to fend for yourself in 
this harsh, cruel world. Clean the hair out of your shower drain 
yourself." Like any proud parent sending its children to the first 
day of school, Yale watches as students walk through the shiny 
new electronic gates of the colleges, off to SSHK with nothing 
but a pat on the back and a $105 allowance. The lessons aren't 
easy, but hey, neither is life. Yale never promised you a rose 
garden, pal, so put down that book, and get busy learning 
something useful. 


1) Louis' Lunch isn't open for dinner on weeknights. 
If you bring three of your best friends across campus from TD 
in the pouring rain, promising them the best burgers in the 
world, you're going to lose those friends when you find a big 
padlock on the door. Those ex-friends may even throw soggy 
onion rings at you when you end up in Burger King. 


2) Business is up at Cutler's and Quality Wine Shop. 
Give Yale students $105, and they'll buy liquor and CDs. 
What a shocker. 


3) Business is down at Commons. 
·Give Yale students $105, and they won't buy cod nuggets and 
soylada tacos. What a shocker. 


4) What do they want? A contract. When do they want it? First thing 
in the morning. 


In a brilliant tactical move, the union has decided that a 
surefire way to win student support is to wake up everybody 
around Berkeley and Calhoun at 6 a.m. by shouting questions at 
the top of their lungs. · 


5) The most important issue of this strike is the security firm hired by 
Yale. 


At least that's how it seems based on the expensive glossy 
magazine that the unions placed in every undergraduate mailbox. 
Apparently subcontracting and casual labor just aren't important 
enough to be turned into slick propaganda. 


6) Henry Kissinger is part of a secret university conspiracy: 
His "surprise" arrival on April 8 allowed President Levin to 
duck out of his meeting with the Student Labor Action Coalition 
(SLAC). In truth, Tricky Dick Levin, uncertain of how to handle 
the hippies congregating in Woodbridge Hall, went to the 
BatPhone and called in Kissinger. The union is raising money 
right now to produce a glossy booklet detailing this conspiracy. 


7) Mother Nature is a union member. 
The April 10 snow storm was a brilliant ma!leuver, forcing 
students to slog through early morning slush that usually would 
have been cleared away by Local 35 workers. The blizzard 
scheduled for Commencement is the unions' ace-in-the-hole; 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
they've even placed local forecasters on the payroll so that no one 
will be expecting it. 

8) Deciding where to eat can be a major life decision. 
With the newfound freedom to choose where to eat, you 
actually have to spend time thinking about what you might like. 
The part of my brain that used to be taken up with thoughts 
about winning the lottery has been occupied lately with each day's 
pressing dining decisions. 

9) GESO never really mattered. 
The single most debated "issue" of the fall semester has 
become the most ignored "organization" of the present. After six 
months of grandstanding about forcing Levin to talk to GESO, 
the Federation has dropped the graduate student group from both 
its letterhead and its rhetoric. 

10) The $5 mi/luhake at Clark's Dairy is worth every penny. 
My roommate has figured out that with $105, he can buy 21 
of them every week. When he walks in to Clark's, everybody 
shouts out his name. 

11) You can fry eggs on a halogen lamp. 
You can also cook with hot-pots, microwaves, barbecues, 
campfires, blowdryers, or just about any other heat-producing 
device now that the strike is diverting fire inspectors. 

12) Sturknts have more rhythm than workers. 
Despite their suburban backgrounds, the members of SLAC 
who walk the picket lines carry a beat much better than the union 
members. The SLAC pickets on Friday afternoons are almost 
funky, with double-beats and improvisations, as compared to the 
simple, steady thumping that the union seems to prefer. 

13) Beer with lunch at Naples is good. 
The freshmen are only there on Thursday nights, but the grad 
students are there everyday for lunch, and joining them for a 
Rolling Rock really helps your performance in those tough 
afternoon sections. 

14) The four basic food groups: Lucky Charms, Cap'n Crunch, Cocoa 
Krispies, and Cookie Crisp. 
The cereal route is very popular among Yalies who want to 
save their rebate check. Sugar-coated flakes, tiny cookies, 
marshmallows, and colored candies aren't just for breakfast. 

15) Off-campus sturknts must be really sorry they're not living on. 
They may have better food, nicer apartments, cheaper rent, 
and kitchens, but nobody's giving them $105 in spending money. 
If Yale is really concerned about the off-campus exodus, it could 
make this weekly paycheck a permanent policy, regardless of the 
strike, as an incentive to keep students in the colleges. 

16) The strike is more e./fictive than SlimFast. 
Everybody claims to be losing weight and suffering from 
malnutrition, unable or unwilling to pay more than $12 for 
decent food found anywhere and everywhere in the naked city. 
Perhaps Yale could present the strike positively as a diet plan to 
prospective freshman who could stand to shed a few pounds at 
the Yale Fat Farm. 

17) Visiting restaurants is nice, but I don't Like Living there. 
Settle the strike now. 
1111 
Dan Murphy, a sophomore in Timothy Dwight Coiiege, is the 
business manager ofTNJ.



Print and 
Mail 
Services 
155 Whitney Avenue 
432-6560 
~X : 432-6274 
EMAIL: AFDLETIJI@YaleADS 
149 York Street 
432-2679 
ALSO OFFERING 
Full color copies 
Course materials 
Complete mail service 
Graphic design 
Affordable Copies 
QUlck turnaround 
Offset printing 
High quality 
Pickup and 
delivery 
Optical character recog.nltlon 
Network accessibility

