Publication date: October 7, 1973
Volume: seven
Issue number: one

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Stuart Rohrer
- Managing Editor: Alan Strasser
- Associate Editors: Pam Gray, Richard Hall
- Editorial assistants: Rick Brown, Usbet Nilson
- Design: Jim Uberman
- Business Manager: Connie Dunham
- Advertising: Barbara Guss, Emmy Zuckerman
- Production: Lee Hanson, Bruce Howard, Bernard Johnson, Suzi Moore, Catherine Romano
- Publisher: Ronald Roel


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment: Smith and Kagan on the summer term, Mauceri on Strauss and Mahler
- Buffalo, buildings, and automobiles
- New Haven elects to receive
- From the people who brought you the face of God ....


**Title: Comment**
**Author: Gaddis Smith**
**Page number(s): 2**

"Inconvenience, not catastrophy"
Everyone natwally approaches the sum-
mer term proposal through his or her 
particular role or interest in the Univer-
sity. The fund raiser may see an oppor-
tunity to convince potential givers that 
we are using .. the plant" to capacity 
and thus deserve support. Others see a 
means of attaining the fabled .. 60-40" 
ratio between the sexes in the under-
graduate student body without fwther 
reducing the number of men admitted. 
An academic innovator may welcome 
the chance to organize cowses along 
broad divisional lines in the summer, but 
a departmental director of undergraduate 
studies may despair over the disruptive 
impact on the normal sequence of 
cowses. Similarly, a residential college 
master tends first to contemplate the 
effect of a summer term on the institu-
tion which, from his perspective, is what 
gives Yale its distinctive character. 

College masters are both academic 
and administrative officers. At times 
the latter role crowds out the former. 
Especially at this time of year we may 
feel harrassed by problems connected 
with too many students in too few 
rooms, by difficulties in the physical 
operation of the college, or by the com-
plexities of internal accounting and bill-
ing within the University. 

At such times and from ow special 
points of view, it is hard to discover 
anything good about the summer term. 
We cry out that only those who have 
experienced the agonies of trying to 
make everyone happy with room assign-
ments, of fmding space for storage of 
student property, of listening to tales 
of property lost or stolen, can under-
stand the confusion that will result from 
the churning of students in and out of 
residence and from one college to 
another. We worry also about the impact 
of a summer population, composed 
mostly of students who do not belong 
to the college, on our cherished and 
already threadbare facilities. And we 
worry most of all about maintaining 
a sense of community when students 
will be here one term, gone the next. 
last spring a committee of residential 
college masters and deans presented• 
the Summer Term Committee with a 
memorandum voicing these concerns. 
The Committee Report is gratifying in 
its responsiveness. It proposes the 
appointment of a summertime adm~­
istrator for each college, and fmanctal 
assistance to meet new responsibilities 
and compensate for wear and tear on 
college facilities. It also holds out the 
possibility of converting the Old Cam-
pus into colleges at some distant date, 
so that all freshmen can live in their 
colleges from the beginning. The de-
parture of undergraduates from the 
college community for one term would 
be more than compensated by the in-
clusion of students in both terms of 
freshman year. 

It is not possible, however, to deal 
with aU the worries of those concerned 
about the residential college system 
without adding so much to the cost 
of summer operation that the fmancial 
gain-the proposal's primary objective-
would be seriously diminished or lost 
altogether. Thus, we are left with the 
necessity of weighing alternatives in the 
context of the University as a whole. 
'Th.e residential college system will sur-
vive a summer term, but no one can 
pretend that the colleges will be the 
better for it. 

It is foolish to view the proposal in 
apocalyptic terms. Year-round operation 
will not mark the end of civilization as 
we have known it at Yale. It may pro-
duce some inconvenience and irritation, 
but not catastrophy. It will not solve 
the University's frnancial problems, 
create an intellectual renaissance, satisfy 
aU those who want a different ratio 
of men to women students, convince 
every doubting alumnus that Yale is 
using its resources in the best possible 
way, or ensure the success of the cap-
ital fund drive. 

But it will probably yield some finan-
cial benefit, and it could well prove 
intellectually invigorating for students 
and faculty. We must make the decision 
whether or not to proceed after gather-
ing the most informed estimates about 
the summer term's impact, with the 
realization that estimates are not cer-
tairlties. My inclination is to go ahead 
if our estimates indicate that the gains 
outweigh the disadvantages by even 
a small margin. 

Gaddis Smith
Professor of History
Master of Pierson College


**Author:  Richard Kagan**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

"Share the poverty"
It is far from clear how much money a 
summer term would earn, but the Com-
mittee's report makes it plain that the 
cost to the quality of a Yale education 
would be considerable. There is no need 
to dwell on the difficulty of doing 
serious intellectual work in the heat and 
humidity of a typical New Haven sum-
mer in classrooms and dormitories not 
designed for summer use, but we should 
ru>t ignore the obvious. 

Even more serious than the climate, 
however, will be the short supply of 
teachers available. About 30% of the 
students will be there, but only 15% 
of the faculty. It is no satisfactory de-
fense to say, as the Committee does, 
that .. Since Yale College faculty mem-
bers now divide their teaching time 
roughly equally between graduate and 
undergraduate teaching" and since no 
graduate students will take summer 
cowses, the faculty-to-student ratio 
will be about the same. 

In the two departments I know best, 
History and Classics, the Committee's 
assumption is flatly wrong. This year 
80% of the courses taught by Classics 
professo~ will be open to under-
graduates. In History the figure is at 
least 70%. This means that the actual 
faculty-to-student ratio in these de-
partments will be far worse in the sum-
mer than in the other terms. 

But that is not all. Since graduate 
students will not attend the summer 
term, professors who teach mostly 
graduate courses will not be available 
tor the impoverished summer term. 
One-seventh of the faculty, of course, 
will teach in the summer. That means 
they will not teach in the winter. and 
enables us to make the summer term 
more comparable to the others by 
sharing the poverty. 

The Committee's response to the 
problem of faculty is to create a 
Divisional Model for the summer based 
on special Institutes. The models 
proposed in the Report group current 
cowses in artificial catagories. These 
cowses are typical Yale offerings, but 
very limited in scope and decked 
out in a fancy new package, something 
like eL-y breakfast cereal put into a 
box filled largely with air. 

The comparison, moreover, between 
the rnandatorv summer divisional model 
and such divisional programs as HAL, 
Politics and Economics, Cultwe and 
Behavior, and Directed Studies is invalid. 
These programs derive their success in no 
smill part from having the entire College 
fa"culty to draw on. lt is very hard to put 
together the faculty necessary to run 
these programs; sometimes the 
faculty is not as good as it should be, and 
sometimes the plan for the program is 
inadequate because o f the uncertainty 
concerning the available faculty. To be 
blunt, some of these programs are often 
statfed with junior faculty, often in their 
first teaching position, drafted irlto the 
program. Thus, there is no reason to 
think that the comparison with the 
summer ~ssion would be valid. 

Further problems are suggested by the 
description of the Center on Classical 
Greece. Two of the suggested courses 
provide illustrations. C. C. 12a, Greek 
Thought Through Aristotle, is a course 
central to work in Classics at Yale. If 
it were given in the summer with the 
presert staff it could not also be given 
in the winter. Would it be sensible to 
offer the course to 30% of ttK students 
(continued on page 14)


**Title: Buffalo, buildings, and automobiles**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

An Interview with Vincent Scully

Bold,opinionoted,quick-witted,academic, 
indulgent,overflowing,theatrical,brilliant, 
compassionate: Vincent Scully came 
back to Yale this faU,stretched and 
reshaped by a years sabbatical in 
Europe, but still the same magnet of a 
man he has always been. Scully has 
returned to his native New Halien to 
resume his Mastership of Morse College 
and refresh Yale with his dramatic 
lectures,stabbing the projection screen 
with a smaller pointer now- the big one 
was stolen. He enjoys the interaction 
once more;it helps him think. 

His most recent book,Pueblo:Mountain 
Village Dance (to be published next 
March by Viking Press),deals with 
Pueblo culture and architecture in Taos 
and Santo Domingo ,New Mexico.He 
spent some time in Europe trying to 
transcribe a number of his lectures into 
another book- but found it an impos-
sible task. He discovered that he could 
not forge his lecture style into his 
writing style.lndeed,he must have found 
that nothing is quite like listening to 
Vince Scully speak: 

Well, I think Yale made a great mistake 
in not having a real plan for this place. 
I guess they did have one, but paid no 
attention to it . For a long time they 
just built hit or miss, wherever they could 
get the land. It was typical of what 
Whitney Griswold, who was a wonderful 
president, thought about architecture 
in the fifites. The idea was to get the 
most outstanding architects and let 
them do what they wanted to do. 

I'm not really happy with most of 
Yale's modem architecture. I don't 
think on the whole that it's up to the 
older buildings here, especially in the 
creation of environments. Morse College, 
for example, is really a very bad solution 
to the problem of housing. The minimal 
facilities we have-the common room 
which is just a left-over basement space-
it's really not right. The accomodations 
are much too cramped. The lighting 
and the special details which were 
designed at vast expense, just don't 
work. 

liQuid you say that it is elitist 
architecture? 

Well, it's not good elitist architecture. 
I'm all for elitist art-that's what I 
believe in. But again it's typical of the 
decade. In the fifties everybody was 
trying to knock everybody else's eye 
out. I think that's very typical of Paul 
Rudolph's Art and Architecture 
Building. He tried so hard just to outdo 
Corbusier, to outdo the Greeks in terms 
of sculptural mass. 

And I'm responsible, too. That's the 
way I thought in the fifties. We all 
thought in terms of this heroic con-
frontation thing. It's the kind of 
thinking that started Kennedy off 
meddling about in Vietnam, exactly 
the same attitude. His inaugural speech 
was the equivalent of the Art and 
Architecture building, in a sense. That 
same quality of the heroic astronaut. I 
dislike it a lot in modern architecture. 

I think the best modem building at 
Yale was the. very first-Kahn's art 
gallery. It's in a way the least pre-
tentious. That building's got a probity, 
a solemnity that I think is really very 
good. Without a doubt the worst one 
is the Beinecke. It's a terrible thing 
to beat a building, kind of like hitting 
a chilo. But the Beinecke is a real 
honor, in my opinion. It destroys the 
center of Yale. We could have had a 
beautiful glass tower by Mies set in a 
circle of masonry buildings that would 
have been a jewel. It would have been 
beautiful. Why they ever commissioned 
that building I just don't know. 

H-71at happened to New Haven during 
the Lee-Griswold era? What produced 
the change to downtown redevelopment? 

I think again it's that sort of heroic view 
of the fifties: We know what's good for 
you, but you don't, so we'll push the 
populations out. They did, too. They 
brought in luxury apartments where 
there had been low-income housing. 
They cleared out so many areas of the 
city where a nice sort of modest life 
was going on. All those wonderful 
shops on State street. Oak street, 
that great shopping area along there-
Jewish delicatessens and so on, the 
kind of thing you just don't find here 
anymore. They were proud to get rid 
of the flea markets that were going on 
over there, proud to announce that 
now we have Chapel Square Mall in-
stead. They had a really stupidly gen-
teel view of what was going to happen 
to the city. 

And then, of course, they didn't com-
plete what they set out to do! The 
citizens began to block it, the funds 
ran out. And now Nixon has starved 
everything to do with the cities. So 
now we have these great waste areas 
like on State street ... 

When I came back to it this time, New 
Haven really looked sad. Somehow 
it looked depressed. It looked droopy. 
It looked dirty. As a matter of fact, the 
whole United States looks awfully 
tacky. Do you get that feeling? Com-
ing apart physically. Yale University, 
too, is not what it used to be. All of 
us used to be appalled at the amount 
of money they spent keeping the 
grounds up. But when you let them go 
a little bit, you see how important that 
all really was. 

Everything around New Haven-from 
the taxi cabs to the way they keep up 
the Merritt Parkway to the neighbor-
hoods-everything gives you the curious 
feeling that we have run out our string. 
we've run out of money, we've run out 
of skills, run out of patience. It may 
have been because I was living in Swit-
zerland, where everything is so neat, so 
tidy. But New Haven does have, right 
at this moment, the look of an absolute 
disaster area. 

Is this a failing of the way we approach 
modem architecture? Have we failed to 
ask the right questions? 

I think it's typical of what's happening 
to us sociologically in this country. Peo-
ple are moving out of the cities, into the 
suburbs. They're driving their own cars. 
So we get more and more highways, more 
and more suburbs. The centers of the 
cities decay, they fill up with the poor 
population that is forced to live there. 
It's just a tragic thing. 

But it seems to me probably inevitable, 
in terms of the suburban living pattern 
and the automobile culture. It seems to 
be the way the United States is going. and 
the way most populations of the world 
go when they get a chance. France will 
go that way-they're ripping Paris apart to 
put in more superhighways along the 
Seine. Frenchmen are moving out into the 
landscape. And Italy, my goodness, Italy 
is running to superhighways. Up through 
the Abrizzi and the unspoiled mountain 
country they run, with all the junk fol-
lowing them. It's a scandal. They're spoil-
ing one of the greatest, most savage, 
archaic, beautiful landscapes- cultures- in 
the world up there. We're just ahead 
of them, that's all. 

But were changing now. The people 
in San Francisco got together to say 
"Stop building" ... 

Yes, that was great. New Haven; too. 
And I suspect it will continue. I think 
the whole physical plant is running 
down. Look at the automobiles, now-
they can hardly run with all those anti-
pollution devices on them. You get 
about two miles to the gallon, they 
choke, and pook! the whole thing is 
falling apart. 

I do think that soon, in specific places 
like New York but eventually in a lot 
of places, the automobile is just not 
going to be useful any more. You're 
already better off in New York without 
one. I think that will soon be the case 
in New Haven. But what has to come 
back is what New York never lost, but 
what other cities have lost completely-
public transportation systems. I think 
the money that comes in through high-
ways and tolls and taxes should go, not 
to roads-no more of that-but to mass 
transit. Bus lines, railroads .... The rail-
roads are stiU the most efficient way to 
move men and goods fast and economi-
cally-but they're in the worst trouble 
of all. 

What happens, though, when people 
don't realize the need for things like 
mass transit? 

That's a real problem. The whole cul-
ture might fall apart. 



**The Automobile: A Sickness?**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The automobile is a funny thing. I 
think the reason people like the automobile so much is because it gives them 
an illusion of freedom. You're usually 
by yourself in that great big stupid automobile and you feel like the pioneer-
like you're not involved with the rest 
of society. Of course this just isn't true 
when the fact that you drive on a road 
means that there's a highly organized 
society that you are sucking on. 
But in the automobile you have that 
sense of territoriality ... Did you ever 
think of the reason why one gets so annoyed when crowded in a car? You don't 
get annoyed if you get crowded on a train 
or a bus because you accept it as a public 
space. But in an automobile you feel like 
you're in your own house, you've got 
your own territory. And when another 
car comes closer that's a threat. Not 
just the threat of collision -you feel the 
aggression, the pressure of another person 
cutting into your territory. Of course 
these feelings are potentially so Duke 
Wayne-ish, so aggressive and violent .... 
I've heard policemen say that they think 
an enormous number of automobile accidents are really automobile murders. People 
lose their tempers and they smash .... 
You know, I've run the whole gamut 
on automobiles. While working with the 
Indians I used to drive out to New Mexico and back every summer. I finally got 
to be kind of a sucker for that imagery 
where you get behind the wheel of the 
old Chevy and drive ... 
Jack Kerouac's story ... 
Yeah, and Larry McMertry. But I really 
believe now that the automobile 
causes a sickness, a real sickness. It's a 
sick, rotten place for human beings to 
be. They're hot, they're smelly and 
they're dirty. The whole feeling an 
automobile gives you is one of spurious 
territoriality. It brings on this 
crushing and smashing of everything 
else worthwhile in the environment. 
I think it's archetypally the American 
sickness today. Only because we're 
first at it. Everybody else goes for it, 
given the chance-the French, the Italians, the Russians .... It's just that we're 
more modern. It's the modern sickness. I think it might end in destroying 
the environment. And worse than 
that it might destroy the ability of 
people to think in communal terms, and 
therefore to vote and behave intelligently. 
Do you feel that you can help avert 
this destruction? 
I've fought it hard in New Haven in 
the past, through public opposition and 
writing about it. But my attempts to 
change it have been a little ambivalent 
in the past because I've always felt the 
pull of the automobile. I really love 
the romanticism it suggests. 
I know if I get back in the Plains 
again-start "movin on," "cruisin"-- I 
might get back into it. That delicious 
old sickness which is best written about 
by Nabokov in Lolita. He's really much 
better than Kerouac. Maybe not before Kerouac, but doing what Kerouac 
never really did-giving you the sense 
of the whole furniture of the road 
culture, that is, the motel. Nabokov 
invented the motel as an image. And 
what is it but an image of absolute alienation? The lostness, the drifting of 
that poor girl who was being pursued 
by a villain, oh it's beautiful. 
In a way the motel, the Howard 
Johnson's or the Holiday Inn, seems 
to be a symbol of the need to retreat 
from the crush of automobiles ... 
That's right. But there's also an element 
of this territoriality thing. The motel 
is not like the old hotel, where you'd 
go in and register at the desk with 
everybody looking at you. It was a 
social thing. You had to be dressed 
right. And you had to be careful you 
were really married to the woman you 
were with 'cause they'd be watching 
with a thousand eyes. 
But in the motel, all that's dried up. 
One person goes in and signs, just says 
how many people are in the car, and off 
you go. You never see anybody. You go 
to your room, break out the Jack 
Daniels-they have the ice right there for 
you-and you sit there and you get 
stewed. The social interaction is absolutely gone. You're completely alone. 


**New Haven elects to receive the Giants**
**Author: Ronald Roel, Stuart Rohrer, and Alan Strasser**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

When the Sons of Eli met Harvard 
in the first football game ever 
played in the Yale Bowl in 1914, 
the Bowl was a near wonder of the 
world: the largest stadium in 
existence, bigger than the Coliseum 
of Rome. It was a marvel of 
engineering, overwhelming in its 
dimensions, unique in its basic 
construction. 

But the fans who watch the New 
York Giants take on the Green Bay 
Packers in the Bowl today will not 
be awed by Yale's stadium like that 
first crowd which saw Harvard kick 
its way past Yale, 36-0. There are 
larger stadiums now, with better 
seats and lighting, expensive private 
lounges, artificial turf, brighter 
colors; the days of Yale's Walter 
Camp-the father of American 
football-are long gone. Yet, for the 
Giants, who will play their five-
game home schedule in their 
newly-adopted city of New Haven, 
the Yale Bowl is the most important stadium in the world right 
now. And for Yale, New Haven, 
and the history of caustic relations 
between the two, the significance 
of these five autumn Sundays 
will transcend the profits and 
prestige of being a major league 
town. For over the past seven 
months, the Yale Bowl has become 
a most important piece of real 
estate, where a prominent university, a major city, and a well-
followed professional sports team 
have all become apparent winners in a complex political and 
economic game. 

But why Yale? 
What makes Wellington Mara 
pull his Giant family away from 
the most devoted sports fans in 
the world to the wilds of Connecticut, where no one is really sure 
they belong and no one is sure 
sure they can stay? And what will 
happen to the New York-Haven-
Jersey Giants in three years if the 
Yale politicians no longer find 
them useful; if the New York politicians all hate them as much as 
John Lindsay does; and if the New 
Jersey politicians can't convince 
the taxpayers that their state 
should be in the business of building multi-million dollar sports 
complexes? 

As a mere one-state team, the 
Giants have been unhappy with 
their facilities at Yankee Stadium 
for some time. Built for the Yankees in 1923, the Stadium is a 
grand old affair-indeed, the Yale 
Bowl of the Bronx- but like the 
Bowl, it has fallen seriously behind 
in the boom of modern sports 
arenas. While the Stadium could 
seat 73,000 for baseball games, 
it could only seat 63,000 for football and many of those seats had 
obstructed views of the playing 
field. Parking space was inadequate 
and access to the stadium somewhat difficult. The facilities were 
badly in need of renovation. And 
the Giants were always playing 
second tenants behind the Bronx 
Bombers. 

Not that the Yankees were completely happy with the ballpark 
either. It was just that neither Rice 
University, who owned the stadium, 
nor the Knights of Columbus, who 
owned the land beneath it, could 
or would finance the needed improvements. Foreseeing that the 
stadium's condition might cause 
the Yankees or the Giants to leave 
the city a worried John Lindsay 
began to talk to the Yankees in 
mid-1970. After nine months of 
negotiating, the Mayor announced 
that the city would either purchase the stadium or acquire it 
through condemnation proceedings; he believed that $21 million 
of renovations would help persuade 
the two teams to remain in New 
York. Yankee President Michael 
Burke indicated that his team immediately would cease discussing 
a possible move to New Jersey. 
Three weeks later, he said that the 
Yankees would stay in New York 
for "30 years" if the renovations 
were undertaken. 

Wellington Mara, on the other 
hand, was not a man to be moved. 
Mara, who inherited the ownership 
of the Giants through his father (who reportedly was able 
to buy the team because of his 
successful bookie operations), refused to commit himself. While 
the imperious Irish owner was 
known for treating his team like 
family, he was also known for 
treating his public strictly as public- and sometimes with public 
contempt. Even before Lindsay's 
renovation announcement, the 
Giants had begun negotiating with 
New Jersey officials for a permanent home in East Rutherford. New 
Jersey Governor William Cahill was 
eager to lure professional teams 
to his state, not only for the business it would bring, but for the 
improvement of his state's public 
image: New York wouldn't have 
New Jersey to kick around anymore. 
Cahill was willing to offer very


attractive terms-and Mara was 
listening. The Governor strained 
already tender Giant-City relations 
by announcing in March, 1971, 
that he had a conditional commitment from the Giants for a move 
across the river. A month later, 
the New Jersey Legislature established a sports authority to plan 
a 750-acre sports complex costing 
between $100 million and $200 
million. The complex was to include separate baseball and football stadiums, a thoroughbred 
racing track, basketball and hockey 
facilities, and a separate convention 
hall. 

The official announcement came 
at the end of August: the Giants 
had signed a 30-year lease to play 
in East Rutherford, New Jersey. 
While at Yankee Stadium they had 
received no percentage of the concessions, parking or program revenues, they would get 10 percent 
of parking and half of the concessions profits in New Jersey. The 
sports complex would offer 75,000 
unobstructed seats for football, its 
own Jersey Turnpike exit, and 
extensive parking facilities. And 
although the Giants were changing 
states, their new home would only 
be one-and-a-half miles further 
from Times Square than is Yankee 
Stadium. 

Mara told the press that he was 
moving his team to give them their 
first real home in 46 years, and to 
provide comfort and convenience 
for those Giant fans who had suffered so long at the Stadium. The 
New York Times quoted him as 
saying: "New York is not losing a 
team, it's gaining a sports complex." 

There was only one problem: the 
New Jersey complex would not be 
completed until at least 1975, and 
the Giants needed a place to play 
their 1973 and 1974 "home" games 
while Yankee Stadium was undergoing renovation. The Mara family 
was not exactly popular in New 
York. ABC Sports commentator 
Howard Cosell came up to New 
Haven to call Mara names in front 
of a Yale Political Union audience. 
Lindsay declared that once the city 
obtained ownership of Yankee 
Stadium, the Giant's subletting 
contract automatically would be 
terminated. He vowed to go to 
court to prevent the Giants from 
retaining the City's name. And he 
contacted then-U.S. Congressman 
Emmanuel Cellar to inquire about 
initiating an antitrust investigation 
of pro football. Clearly, the possibility of sharing the City-owned 
Shea Stadium with the New York 
Jets did not seem likely. 

At first glance, the Yale Bowl 
seemed to offer the best temporary 
solution, even though 90 percent 
of the Giants' regular fans came 
from outside Connecticut. Other 
possibilities included West Point's 
Michie Stadium and Princeton's 
Palmer Stadium, as well as sites 
in Foxboro, Mass., Tampa, Fla., 
and their Jersey City practice 
field. But West Point did not 
want the Giants. And the Giants 
did not want Princeton-its stadium could not accommodate the 
60,000 Giant season ticket holders 
and there was a serious question 
as to whether the town could 
withstand the massive weekly 
influx of fans. The cost of expanding the Giants practice field 
facilities appeared prohibitive. 
Moving to Foxboro would be like 
moving the New York Rangers 
to the Boston Garden. And playing 
in Tampa would pose the threat 
of losing considerable ticket revenue as well as most of the Giants' 
present fans. By the spring of 
1973, it had become evident that 
unless the Giants wanted to play 
all their games on the road, their 
best option was quickly becoming 
their only real option. It was the 
Yale Bowl or bust. 

The Yale Bowl had the advantages of being close enough to 
New York to retain their season 
ticket holders, and of being large 
enough-70,000 seats-to hold 
them all. Interstate 95 and the 
Merritt Parkway both pass within 
miles of the Bowl, and adequate 
parking space was available in lots 
and on Yale sports fields surrounding the site. 

Added to these physical advantages, the Bowl had hosted professional football games annually 
since 1960, when the Giants began




**Title: The Giants Come to New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Volume seven, nwnber one I October 7, 19731 7 
:· 
... : ':1 
playing the pre-season Albie Booth 
games, and later the Jets--Giants 
"Suburban Bowl., 
The access roads were not de-
signed to handle the traffic a 
Giants' game would create, however, 
and there were other disad-
vantages as well. The grass play-
ing field would require extensive 
and hurried repairs after a Sat-
urday Yale home game. The half-
time rooms in the Bowl and 
Lapham Fieldhouse were inad-
equate even by college football 
standards. (Sam Chauncey once 
commented that they are "the 
worst facilities in the Ivy League ... ) 
The press box is tiny and primitive. 
To the Giants•s eye, however, the 
advantages of a stadium large 
enough and close enough stood 
out most sharply. The details 
either could be improved or tol-
erated. 

Almost as soon as people knew 
that the Giant's would be leaving 
Yankee Stadium for New Jersey, 
speculation about whether they 
would play in New Haven began. 
New Haven Journal-Courier Sports 
Editor Bill Guthrie claimed that 
the Giants had contacted Yale 
in the fall of 1972, although Mara 
denied that any contacts had been 
made with anyone. The first 
official word Yale heard from the 
Giants came in February, 1973, 
when Giants' attorney and Yale 
alumnus Lawrence Krieger 
phoned University Secretary Sam 
Chauncey to ask about use of 
the Bowl for the five 1973 home 
games. Chauncey told Krieger he 
would raise the question with the 
Yale Corporation and call him back 
When the Corporation approved 
the playiug of the annual Albie 
Booth charity game at the Yale 
Bowl in 1960, it stipulated that 
no other professional sporting 
events would be allowed. At 
that time, University President 
A. Whitney Griswold was appar-
ently worried that professionalism 
might taint Yale's own athletic 
program by introducing some of 
its seedier elements such as 
gambling. 

With a steadily deteriorating 
fmancial situation on their hands, 
GUIOA 
.~.-
the Corporation apparently over-
ruled this policy in favor of 
seeking a lucrative settlement with 
the Giants. They instructed 
Chauncey to begin negotiating a 
contract. 

It appeared that an agreement 
with the Giants could greatly 
benefit the University. The Giant's 
arrival would help soothe the bad 
feelings between Yale and New 
Haven caused last year by the 
handling of the proposed new 
colleges. The deal would be a boost 
to local business and would please 
New Haven area fans as well. As for 
Yale, rental of the Bowl would 
help alleviate the financial crisis. 
C:trmen Cozza suggested that pro-
fessional games might also have a 
positive effect on Yale football by 
providing examples of high-caliber 
play. 

The Yale administration was 
well aware that the Giants could 
not easily afford to lose the Yale 
Bowl, and thus knew it could 
safely use the negotiations to help 
improve its relations with New 
Haven. Hence, when the Corpora-
tion meeting of March 10 pro-
duced an affirmative answer to 
the Giants, they worded the 
announcement carefully: "The 
Corporation views with favor the 
leasing of the Bowl for this pur-
pose provided the city of New Hav 
Haven and the city of West Haven 
want this to happen ... The Cor-
poration's deference to New Hav 
Haven's interests contrasted sharply 
with the arrogant attitude they 
had displayed dunng the contro-
versy over the two new residen-
tial colleges. It appeared to rep-
resent a carefully displayed pos-
ture toward the surrounding city, 
a new conciliatory style of nego-
tiation. 

Nevertheless, Chauncey insisted 
on more than a mere change of 
style. He demanded that Hartford-
based television station WTIC 
be allowed to broadcast the Giants 
games locaUy. He was worried 
about the 500,000 people in the 
station's viewing area, who "for 
five years have gotten to see nearly 
every Giants game on TV. Yale did 
not wish and could not afford to 


--- Page 8 ---

alienate these people solely be-
cause of a pursuit of the almighty 
dollar." Nor did Chauncey agree 
with the principle of blacking 
out Hartford and New Haven, es-
pecially since tickets to the Giants 
games would not be readily 
available. 

NFL Broadcast Co-ordinator 
Robert Cochran called Chauncey's 
stipulation "u~reasonable." He 
noted that since the broadcast re-
quest would violate NFL guide-
lines, it would have to be discussed 
at the league meeting in Scottsdale, 
Ariz. on April 25. After the meet-
ing, the league announced that the 
five Giants opponents had ap-
proved the WTIC broadcasts pro-
vided the contest was sold out 
six days in advance. (This pro-
vision was superseded by recent 
Congressional action which allows 
broadcasts of games sold out 
three days in advance.) 

Yale established a one-year 
contract with the Giants with an 
option to renew for two addition-
al years. The contract reflected 
caution on both sides of the 
table: Yale wanted to be able to 
evict the Giants if their games 
proved detrimental to Yale foot-
ball or University-city relations; 
the Giants had not ruled out the 
possibility that they might return 
to Yankee Stadium under the 
new Mayor. The contract called 
for payment of about $1 million 
for two years, or about $85,000 
per game. The Giants agreed to 
renovate Lapham Fieldhouse and 
half-time rooms at the Bowl, and 
to pay all costs involved in prepar-
ing and cleani!"g the Bowl on the 
day of their games. 

When the Yale Corporation 
approved the use of the Bowl on 
condition that New Haven and 
West Haven wanted the Giants, 
it tossed the issue into the laps of 
the politicians. Mayor Guida had 
already expressed his personal 
approval of the idea, but reserved 
official judgment until the city 
and the Giants could get together. 
New Haven stood to profit con-
siderably from the arrangement, 
both in monetary and less tangible 
Volume seven, number one I October 7, 19731 8 
terms. New York fans could be 
expected to come to New Haven 
and pump money into the City's 
motels and restaurants. Realizing 
the economic boost the Giants 
could bring, a group of downtown 
business and community leaders 
urged Guida to approve the plan. 
Not only would local businesses 
reap profits, but the city itself 
stood to profit from parking·, pro-
gram and concession percentages. 
The city began to negotiate with 
the Giants before Guida had given 
his official blessing, apparently with 
the idea that reaching an accept-
able concessions agreement would 
be the condition for the city's 
permission. The Giants were not 
inclined to argue. Still, the con-
cessions negotiations dragged for 
months, and became known in 
New York City as "the hot dog 
war." Guida drove a hard bargain. 
On May 24 they finally reached 
agreement and New Haven extended 
the official hand to the New York 
Giants. 

·The concessions agreement re-
portedly gave 85 percent of the 
profits to New Haven, 15 percent 
to West Haven and nothing to 
the Giants; but they hadn't re-
ceived any concessions profits 
in Yankee Stadium, either. The 
city also picked up the prestige 
of being a major league football 
town, if only temporarily. But 
the Giants would bring problems 
as well as profits. Funds would 
be needed for police, traffic 
control, maintenance and clean-up 
personnel, and the two cities 
required the Giants to pay them. 

There were nagging zoning 
problems: the Westville area which 
contains the Bowl is zoned resi-
dential, and at one point, City 
Building Inspector Orlando Sil-
vestri contended that "the use 
of the Bowl by the Giants or any 
other professional team would be 
a business use not allowed in a 
residential zone." 

Last April, Silvestri asked City 
Corporation Counsel Thomas 
Keyes to prepare an advisory 
opinion on the subject. While 
Keyes publicly expressed his dis-
agreement with Silvestri's inter-
Giants 'home' 
schedule: 
October 7 
October 14 
Green Bay Packers 
Washington Redskins 
No~mber 11 Dallas Cowboys 
No~mber 18 St. Louis Cardinals 
December 16 Minnesota Vikings 
Yale Bowl, 
l=OOp.m. 
pretation of the zoning ordinance, 
he set to work. Two months later 
he was still working on it, and the 
final agreement was announced 
in spite of the unresolved zoning 
question. Guida declared at the 
May 24 announcement ceremony 
that "I don't feel there is any 
zoning trouble or anything else 
that would bar us from welcom-
ing the Giants." The Giants de-
clared that Yale, as landlord, 
should settle the zoning situation. 
Chauncey flatly stated that Yale 
would not involve itself in a 
zoning dispute. Silvestri's office 
stated that circumstances had 
not changed. Finally, on July 17, 
Keyes produced his opinion: 
the Yale Bowl existed in West-
ville before the zoning ordinance 
was passed, and therefore qualifies 
as a "non-conforming" use of 
property. Keyes asserted that 
since admission had been charged 
and large crowds assembled since 
the Bowl was constructed, the 
Giants games would simply be 
an extension of this "non-conform-
ing" use. 

Ahh, politics. 

The Giants, then, finally have 
found a place to play their 1973 
home season. Their search was 
arduous, their agreement costly, 
their site distant. But they avoided 
Tampa and the grind of playing 
14 away games. They didn't 
alienate their season ticket holders 
nor invoke the wrath of the league. 
They were finally satisfied. 

New Haven has gained status. 
It will receive direct payments 
from parking and concessions, and 


--- Page 9 ---

> 
Volume seven, number one I October 7, 19731 9 
indirect revenue from the influx of 
Giant fans ... It should be," as Old 
Heidelberg owner Buddy Cavallero 
observed, .. a shot in the arm for 
down town New Haven business." 
The team will enhance civic pride 
and improve New Haven's self-
image. And as one downtown 
businessman noted, "They'll 
liven up the place." 

If the Giants stay for two seasons, 
Yale will earn roughly $1 million 
in rent. More importantly, Yale 
has partially restored its damaged 
relations with New Haven. The 
University regained at least the 
spirit of the Mellon Center agree-
ment. 

. 
What relation will the University 
and the team have in the future? 
Secretary Chauncey has stated 
"Three years is the limit," but 
what will happen if, (as is likely) 
the East Rutherford stadium re-
mains unconstructed by 197 6? 
Will Yale again come to the Giants' 
rescue? Chauncey emphasized 
that Yale asked for only a fixed 
annual rent, because "we're running 
running a non-profit institution. 
We're not in the speculation bus-
iness." Realizing that the Giants 
must either return to New Haven, 
prostrate themselves before the 
New York City Mayor, or play 
only road games, the University 
may press the Giants for more 
handsome compensation. Indeed, 
the University's three-year limit 
may only be a bargaining ploy, 
promising tougher negotiations 
in the future. 

All this is predicated on improved 
relations between Yale and New 
Haven. The Giants provided Yale 
with a splendid opportunity to 
bridge the chasm to the city. As 
such, the political benefits of 
attracting the Giants were at 
least as valuable as the economic 
benefits. Yale needed to prove 
its concern for New Haven's needs 
and wants. 

The University's new attitude 
appears to stem from New Haven's 
rejection of the colleges; yet it 
does not appear to be motivated 
simply be a desire to reverse that 
decision. 

The Giant decision was not an 
adequate test of Yale's motives 
precisely because it was such a 
beneficial arrangement for all 
concerned. Yale's short-term in-
terests coincided with its long-
term interests: the immediate 
political impljcations of the alder-
men's decision were so obvious 
that only sheer blindness or 
stubborn arrogance would have 
allowed Yale to overlook New 
Haven's interest in the Giants' 
prospective move to the Bowl. 

What did Yale learn from 
the colleges fiasco? If it learned 
only the necessity of present 
appeasement, the Giants' deal 
was simply a well-disguised bribe 
If the University learned how to 
cooperate with the city, then 
the Giants' deal was a sound in-
vestment in Yale's future. 0

**From the people who brought you the face of God**
**Author: Bruce Howard**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
From the people who brought you the face of God ... 
by Bruce Howard 
•· 
• • 
<t • -~ -., 
Two years ago the Yale Marching Band, 
bankrupt and leaderless, brought us the 
face of God. Now, invigorated by new 
funds and a new director, they still face 
their possible last judgement every week. 
Yet their message, if you can find it, is 
the same. 

Welcome, ladies, gentlemen, and Mr. 
Chauncey. For your pleasure today, we 
'Were going to present Catherine the 
Great singing "Nobody Knows the 
Trouble I've Seen," but she met with a 
crushing equestrian accident, and couldn't 
make it. So, instead, we present the 1973 
version of the World's Oldest Marching 
Band, the Yale Precision Marching Elec-
tric Rainbow. Head Cretin: Keith Brion. 
Near-Cretin: David Perlman. Imprimator: 
Sam Chauncey. And introducing Luscious 
Lori and the Human Hormones. 

Today we salute Sam Chauncey, class 
of '57, the little known and less appre-
ciated Secretary of Yale University. (play 
Another Opening, Another Show) 

To begin with, we introduce a weekly 
column dedicated to answering every-
thing you wanted to ask about Yale, but 
were afraid to know: "Band Slanders". 
This week's question reads: Dear Band, 
How large is Sam Chauncey's office? 
Band says: Sam Chauncey's office is so 
small that he has to go outside to change 
his mind. Luckily his mind is narrow 
enough to fit through the door. (play 
Great Gate of Kiev and form door} 

In previous years, the Yale Precision 
Marching Band's unexpurgated shows 
have wreaked havoc upon the streets of 
New Haven. That was before Sam 
Chauncey took the bull by the tail and 
foced the situation. Now the band shows 
simply reek. In honor of Sam's bull, the 
band forms the situation (a large zero} 
and plays Conquistador. 

Aside from censorship, Sam has many 
other functions. As soon as he figures 
them out, 'We'll dedicate a song to them. 
Yale Band halftime show, 
Sept. 29, 1973 

A few weeks ago Henry "Sam" 
Chauncey III, Secretary of the Univer-
sity, told the Yale University Marching 
Band that if they performed one more 
"bathroom joke" in the Yale Bowl their 
act would be cancelled and replaced by 
local high school bands. 

Last Saturday Chauncey and Univer-
sity President Kingman Brewster were 
watching the show carefully from their · 
ftfty yard line seats to se-e how the new 
policy worked. The newly-domesticated 
band marched into the center of the 
field, and "in honor of Sam's bull," 
formed the bovine's ass and played "Con-
quistador." 

They then formed a fire hydrant and 
played the Foot lifter March, appro-
priately dedicated to the huskie dogs of 
the University of Connecticut. 

And after all that Brewster shook 
Chauncey's hand and the smiling secre-
tary flashed the "V" sign to photogra-
phers. Perhaps he was proud to be The 
Man Who Made The Band Give Up That 
Old Bathroom Humor. (They were 
finally getting into healthy things like 
asses and urine.) Or maybe he was just 
relieved that at least it was obscure 
enough to get past the locals in the 
stands. 

After the show Chauncey said the 
band was safe for at least another week. 
He said he didn't mind the aperture 
formed on the field , the fire hydrant, or 
even the joke about Catherine the Great's 
equestrian accident. "We don't look for it 
if we don't see it," he said, "If you know 
what I mean." 

His sentiment was echoed by Band 
President Tom Olcott, '74, one of the 
authors of Saturday's script. "We knew 
the script was safe," he said. "We 
figured if someone was perverted enough 
to figure out the jokes, they had no right 
to act offended." 

Brewster, too, was pleased. After the 
game he was asked what he thought of 
the "new Band." "They were splendid," 
he said as his wife chuckled at the ques-
tion. "How about their new sound?" the 
reporter asked, referring to the electric 
guitars featured in the show. "I've made 
my comment," Brewster said, "with all 
its amplifications." 

Chauncey's small victory last week 
is only phase one of a long series of 
changes he hopes to make to improve 
Yale's strained relations with New 
Haven- a 200-plus year old problem that 
became a multi-million dollar issue last 
spring when the Board of Aldermen 
turned down the University's bid to 
build two new residential colleges. 

Chauncey hopes Yale can make 
friends with the city-without making 
major concessions on Yale's tax-exempt 
status- by making minor concessions like 
muzzling the Yale Band, accepting more 
New Haven applicants, and getting Yale 
students to register and pay property tax 
on the cars they keep in the city. 

Chauncey estimates that more than 60 
per cent of the fans in the Bowl each 
week are area residents and Yale alumni, 
both of whom are frequent and vehement 
critics of the Band's "less than tasteful" 
halftime shows. 

"I don't like censorship," Chauncey 
says, "In fact, personally I'm not 
otTended by anything. I've been working 
with students for so long that I've 
become, well, let's say flexible. But some 
very reasonable people have written us 
complaining about the Band's bad taste 
and I can see their point. That's why 
we're making this change." 

Aside from general complaints about 
the Band's allegedly bad taste and slov-
enly appearance, some alumni have even 
threatened to cut off imancial support 
for the University because the Band shows 
are so offensive. One alumnus wrote: "We 
are interested in giving our monies to 
help educate young ladies and gentlemen 
and not a group that look and act like 
sluts and slobs." 

Another, the head of a 20 year 
reunion fund drive, said it was hard 
enough to raise money these days with-
out having to apologize for a band that 
was "disgusting, anti-President, anti-
morals. anti-evervthintt." 

With a $400 million capital improve-
ment fund drive due to begin early 
next year, the administration is anxious 
to appease rich alumni with an aversion 
to poor taste. 

In addition, Yale administrators and 
New Haven Mayor Bart Guida have 
received hundreds of letters from city


--- Page 11 ---

residents complaining about the Yale 
Band. ChaWlcey said that although Guida 
himself has never complained about the 
Band, he was very pleased when Yale 
told him about the new censorship. 

.. lltere's no question that the Band has 
hurt our relations with New Haven," 
ChaWlcey said. "For example, we used 
to give a lot of free football tickets to 
area youth groups, like the cub scouts, 
but after one really bad halftime show a 
cub scout leader wrote us and told us we 
oould keep the tickets." 

"I've given the problem a lot of 
thought," Chauncey said, "and I've fin-
ally decided that the only solution is to 
have the Band cut out all sexual or dirty 
humor entirely. I know we may also be 
cutting out some jokes that might not be 
offensive, but l don't think there's any 
other way. I've made my decision and rm 
willing to take flak for it. But if the Band 
passes these limits, they won't play 
again." 

ChaWlcey's do~r-die threat is an 
abandonment of the forrner, largely 
ineffective policy of having Yale College 
Dean John Wilkinson edit each show 
before the game. Wilkinson's censorship 
of the Band began in 1969 when the 
Band, in mocking two University of Con-
necticut athletes who were charged with 
breaking and entering, marched from a 
"UCONN" formation into "UCONS." 

But Wilkinson, now on leave, was 
unable to control the Band. "Sometimes 
the script would take on new meanings 
when the announcer read it at the game," 
Chauncey explained, "and sometimes 
they'd just change the script after 
Wilkinson approved it." 

During the Wilkinson years the Band 
got away with lines like "Benjamin 
Franklin, the foWlder of the University 
of Pennsylvania, attained considerable 
popularity as ambassador to the French 
court. The Yale Band wo nders what could 
have attracted the Parisian ladies to the 
old invento r. Was it his lightning rod? Or 
was it just o ne of those things?" At the 
197 1 Harvard game the Band dedicated a 
sona,.!o the Radcliffe women, who 
"in- accordance with an o ld Massachusetts 
custom, are rewarded with a scarlet letter 
for making the Crimson teams." 

The Band admits they got away with 
some outrageous shows under Wtlkinson, 
including the infamous "Yes, We Have 
No Bananas" salute to the then un-
coeducated Dartmouth. But they claim 
Wilkinson wreaked some havoc of his 
own at times. 

On one occasion, the Band claims, 
Wilkmson rejected a show the da> before 
an away game at Pennsylvania and the Band had to write a new 
show during the bus ride to Philadelphia. 
En route they pulled into a Howard John-
son's on the New Jersey Turnpike and 
practiced the new formations in the 
parking lot. 

After Wilkinson rejected another script 
later in the season, the Band dedicated 
a show to the .. Wilkinson blades" of 
censorship, asking " Why won't Gillette 
us be?" and explaining to the fans that 
the " Personna non grata" thought all the 
Band shows were "full of Schick." 

Some band members feel there 
should be no censorship at all. lltey say 
their irreverence is good for student 
morale and is a healthy addition to Yale's 
staid image. ln a letter to an angry 
alumnus, last year's Band conductor 
Bryan Simms wrote " The band genuinely 
does not intend to offend spectators at 
the game. We only ask that you share our 
spirit of diversion and humor." 

Even the drum major of the Univer-
sity of Connecticut band, Dudley Hamlin, 
74, grants the 'nlle Band "its style, for 
what it's worth." He says his own band, 
which is twice as big as the 90-member 
Yale Band and which marches in the Big 
Ten band style, " has too much class to be 
funny on the fleld." "But if people can't 
take college-level humor" he adds, " they 
shouldn't be in college-level places." 

But New Haven residents and alumni 
continue to outnumber Yale students at 
the Bowl, and their criticism of the Yale 
Band has been a growing problem for 
Yale administrators in recent years. ln 
most cases, Yale administrators have 
apologized and confided to even the 
most enraged critics that they agree. 

When one alumnus, class of '30, wrote 
.. The Band must give thousands pause 
when they consider continued support," 
Jo nathan Fanton, Assistant to the Presi-
dent, replied ••1 share your dismay about 
the Yale University Marching Band and it 
does seem to me that its appearance has 
deteriorated over the past two or three 
years. I hope we can reverse this trend." 

When another alumnus wrote " It has 
always been· my contentio n that if you're 
going to tell a dirty joke, it had better be 
funny, and the script that is written for 
these weekly displays would be more 
appropriate if inscribed on the walls of a 
public toilet," a Yale administrator 
scrawled .. A very reasonable letter, in my 
view" at the top of the sheet. 

For some alumni, however, the taste-
lessness of the Yale Band has even a 
historic significance. "This may be the 
pornographic age," a member of the 
Volume seven, number one I October 7, 1973 I 11 
class of '46 wrote, "but I think the 
Band's officers last month to issue his 
reference to the male and female sex 
ultimatum, they were already planning a 
organs over the lo udspeaker to a parents-
tribute to birth control, complete with a 
day football crowd of 35,000 is in incred-
coat hanger formation (for the song 
ibly bad ta.ste. It seems to me that this 
" You Must Have Been a Beautiful Baby," 
lack of respect for the University and its 
of course) the Trojan fight song, and a 
administration is the stuff of which future 
rendition of "I've Got Rhyt hm." "We 
uprisings are made." 

Although even the Band's script writers 
admit some of their shows drifted over 
that thin line of tastefulness, they insist 
that the band is basically a harmless, fun-
loving organization that entertains and 
enlivens students with its antics and o ut-
landish shows. 

"When I think of the Yale Band," said 
Ben Aldridge, '72, script-writer for the 
1971 Band, .. I think of the fun we had · 
and the people we made laugh. Uke the 
time the Band tried to do a period-time·,· 
show at a hockey game and almost got 
killed by the ice-scraping machine. Or the 
time we ran out of money and had to 
send the "Yale University Precision 
Marching Invisible Band" to the Brown·· 
game in Providence. 

••1 remember the stunned looks o n the 
faces when the drum major strutted o ut 
onto the fleld alone and anno uncer said . 
'Tile 16,000 members of the Yale Band 
now form the Taj Mahal, complete with 
reflecting pools, scores of naked dancing 
girls, and the Royal Ostrich Herd. Notice 
if you will the partial eclipse of the moon 
visible between the last two turrets on the 
left.' 

"The announcer was Jim Vasios- he's 
a parole officer in Hackensack now. The 
drum major moved around some more 
and Jim said •you ain't seen nothing yet. 
Moving quickly from its Indian Opulence, 
the Band's famous 17 member elite tacti-
cal squad captures the enigmatic smile 
of the Mona Usa ... while the 15,983 
lfandsmen form an appropriate back-
ground.' 

" But the last formation was the big 
one. •And now,' Jim said, •t.adies and 
gentlemen, for the ftrst time anywhere, 
the 'rate University Marching Invisible 
Band forms, on this very field ... the 
face of GOD!' We played~~ !_ape of 
Hail to the Chief over the lo udspeaker. 
The students loved it, but boy did we get 
letters." 

Band members tend to remember their 
glories and forget the shows about .. nip-
pers" and ··odd-balls" that got the angriest 
letters. Nevertheless, the fact that Sat-
urday's show caused such relief in the 
administration bears witness to the 
heights, or depths, of tastlessness the 
Band has reached in the past. 

ln fact, when Chauncey called in the 
didn't even bo ther asking about that 
one," Olcott said. 

Since the rrleeting with Chauncey, the 
script writers have become such avid self-
censors that they are even <lreaming 
about getting their show on regional 
T.V. when and if the American Broad-
casting Company televises the Yale-Penn 
game on Nov. 10. The band has offered to 
provide the network with a script before 
the game, but an ABC spokesman said 
they have not yet worked out their plans 
for the telecast . 

The netwo rk's caution might be 
traced to the last televised Yale foo tball 
game in 1969 when the 'nlle Band per-
fo rmed a salute to Aristotle Socrates 
Onassis on the air. After forrning the 
initials A.S.O . on the fleld, the band sat 
down and apparently refused to move. 
After a long pause the Yale annoWlcer 
said "Will the Yale Band please get its 
ASO off the field." The network switched 
quickly to a commercial, but not before 
Otris Schenkel was heard muttering "I 
can't believe they did that." 

Although Band members are excited 
by the idea of returning to mass rrledia, 
many have already expressed dismay o ver 
the willmgrless of the Band's officers to 
compromise with the administration. 

"Sure it's a sell~ut in a way," Olcott 
said. " I'm not pleased to have to submit 
but then I don't want to call ChaWlcey's 
bluff either." 

"It's depressing," trombonist Jim Warner, 
75 said. ••There used to be a real spirit in 
knowing yo u were pissing off the admin-
istration and getting away with it. I think 
the spirit's starting to go out of the 
Band.'' Another Band member com-
plained, " I really resent being used by the 
administratio n to buy two new colleges 
from New Haven." 

Some old-line Band membe~re even 
skeptical of their new director .~ ith 
Brion, who is friendly and conscientious, 
but defmitely intent on making the Band 
sound and look better. 

A high school band director in New 
Jersey for the past 11 years, Brion is 
combining some Big-Ten-type marching, 
dressing and playing discipline with some 
innovations like electric guitars to create 
a new Yale Band image. 

While a few Band members are grumb-
(continued on page 15)


**Buffalo and Buildings**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 12**

Buffalo and Buildings 
(continued from page 4) 
ric and contemporary, to the sacred natu-
ral formations. And the ritual is still go-
ing on there. That's what I worked on-
the sacred mountains, the relation of the 
Pueblos to them and the relation of their 
dances to the man-made and the natural. 
There's an awful lot about dancing in it. 
The greatest dances I have seen are in 
the great pueblo of Santo Domingo, 
where two enormous events take place. 
One is the great com dance in the sum-
mer where the whole pueblo is dancing-
hundreds and hundreds of dancers. The 
whole group is moving like a great field 
of com, like an army. Sophocles has a 
chorus in Oedipus at Co/onus say: "the 
olive fertile and self-sown, the terror of 
our enemies." The corn is like that, it is 
the power of the pueblos. It's through 
the com that they can live close together 
and have the strength of their communi-
ty. And so these dances, these great files 
and lines of dancers, are just terrific. 

The other great type ot dance, which 
they have in the winter, are the animal 
dances. Especially the buffalo dances, 
where the dancers have got to be a lot 
like ·the animal chorus of Dionysus. Out 
of which, in a view to which Aristotle 
and I subscribe, Greek drama derives. 
An animal steps forward from the chorus 
to oppose it with his will. In the Pueblo 
dance, it's the buffalo that opposes the 
whole movement of the chorus and the 
whole rhythm of nature. Animals like 
the elk dance bent over with two sticks 
for front legs. But the buffalo think they 
are the hunters. They dance like men, 
bow in one hand, rattle in the other. They 
dance up and down the ftles of animals, 
count coup on them with the bow, then 
bring them back to life again with the 
rattle and they all dance together. 

This dance really makes you feel the 
immortality of the herds. One is shot 
down and another, exactly like the other 
one in the eyes of men, takes its place. 
You can feel how animals were made 
gods in prehistoric times, you really can. 
In Domingo, especially, they dance all 
day. About the middle of the afternoon 
the buffalo begin to become aware 
that they are going to die, too, that they 
they're not just the hunter, but also the 
hunted. Then they may tum against the 
cho~these hundreds of people with 
many drums and rifles filled with blanks 
that they fue ofT as the buffalo tum 
against them. And while there are only 
two buffalo, normally, those two with 
their manes and their horns give the im-
pression of a whole herd. You can really 
see it all movio g. 

Between the buffalo dances the buffalo 
maiden. who carries an evergreen bundle 
in her hand. She is really Artemis, the 
mother of the beast and of the animals. 
She is also Nature, she's the Law, and she 
keeps them dancing to their fate. When 
they learn that they're going to die, some-
times they tum and try to escape from 
the plaza. She reaches out with her bun-
Volume seven, number one I October 7,19731 12 
dle and she brings them back, and they 
pick up their rhythm again. It's tremen-
dous, it's just murder. 

lsn 't the scope of your work then really 
more than just art history? lsn 't it almost 
anthropology? 

Yes, both in the work in Greece and with 
the Pueblo I push toward anthropology. 
But I'm no anthropologist. I really do it 
through art history. When I'm dealing 
with dance I do it like an art historian, be-
cause I really don't know anything about 
music and I can't pretend that I do. I 
love the Indian music, though, and I 
really try to describe it the best I can as I 
would any work of art, any plastic form. 
I think it's still art history, but there is a 
lot of ethnographic material involved that 
I try to deal with. 

Do you approach your work like an 
ethnographer, getting out and speaking 
with the people? 

I hate to ask them questions. I really feel 
like a fmk, sitting there peeking like a 
voyeur at their culture. But I approach it 
the way I would any work of art. I try 
to learn it as much as I can in its cultural 
context, in the context of the people who 
made it. But on the other hand it exists 
outside that, too. It exists outside time. 
lhere's no veil between it and the observer 
when he sees it. And it has meaninp far 
beyond those that might have been inten-
ded. No work of art is the simple sum of 
the intentions of the artist. Otherwise 
there would be no work of art-you 
would just write down your intentions. 
1he work of art transcends that and de-
velops all kinds of meanings as it affects 
different observers. I think that's the 
difference between art history and anthro-
anthropology or archaeology. 

The art historian has the responsibility 
to deal with that other dimension-the 
work of art as it's experienced in each 
generation, as it changes, as it affects 
other forms, as it acquires meanings that 
were not intended by its makers. It's 
the responsibility of the archaeologist to 
place the artifact frrmly within the matrix 
of its culture. lhere he stops. The art 
historian should do that if he can, or 
should profit by the ability of the archae-
ologist to do it. But he should also be 
able to deal with it in the other context, 
too-its undying and constantly changing 
life in the history of mankind. 

Do you as an art historian ever feel the 
urge to create art rather than study it? 

No. But I love to draw. And I used to 
design houses a lot. But I'm not a disap-
pointed painter, sculptor or architect. My 
passion goes into the history of what's 
around. I'm a critic on that story. So 
I don't feel in any way frustrated. I'm 
not doing this instead of the other. I am 
verbal, that's why I majored in English 
in c:oUe!J'. I always wanted to write. My 
basic method of expression is with words. 

Have you ever made any attempts at 
aeative writing? 

Yeah, recently I started writing. In a 
typical American way I started writing 
right out of my memories of boyhood. 
But I don't like writing like that. I found 
that when I tried to write stories or no-
vels I couldn't think of plots or anything. 
I need the great works of art to make 
contact with reality. I need them badly, 
and they start me. They tell me about 
reality, and I try to capture that. A$ a 
teacher I guess I try to explain it. That's 
a terrible word, but I guess it has to be 
used. On the other hand, one has to ex-
plain works of art in ways that don't de-
stroy works of art. Now of course you 
can't destroy works of art with even the 
worst, dreariest explanation, but maybe 
you can destroy it for your listeners, 
temporarily, and that is the most terrible 
thing. 

You have to use words that are comple-
ments to the work of art, if possible, 
words that are as true as you can make 
them about what you see. Words that are 
as historically true as possible in terms of 
what we know of the artist's intentions 
and of the cultural matrix. Words which 
can engage in a verbal reaction to the 
physical stimulus, which is one of the 
things art history ought to be about, es-
pecially from the aesthetic point of view. 
From the point of view of deriving mean-
ing from experience, art history's function 
ought to be to bring words to bear upon 
physical objects in a way that enhances 
the intensity of meaning we derive from 
both. 

Do you ever find it difficult to put what 
you get from the visual experience of a 
work of art into verbal terms, into words? 

Oh, sure. lbat's what the craft of this 
profession involves. It's constantly trying 
to do that and constantly trying to do it 
better. lbat's what one works at more 
than anything else in writing and lectwing. 
Sure, it's difficult, but it is the challenge. 

Do you try to explain aTt to your students, 
01' do you try to direct them into it? 

Yes, weD, it's certainly directing them. 



**An Interview with a History of Art Professor**
**Author: Not specified, but conducted by Gerry Olanoff, Jim Liberman, and Stuart Rohrer**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
) 
} 
Volume seven, number one I October 7, 1973 I 13 
Obviously a course such as History of 
Art 12 is not just a list of names, dates 
and places. I hardly stress those at all. 
Although we do hold the students re-
sponsible for them, just simply so that 
there is the respect for history, for the 
chronology, for the object, and for pre-
cise, solid fact. But on the other hand 
the major purpose of the course should 
be a simple beginning in acquiring a 
passion for and a confidence in the pro-
cess of seeing and derivinR meanin2 
from that. And connecting this process 
in fact, with the fundamental problems. 
of human life. 

To start art, a course in the history of 
art, do you feel it is necessary to start 
at the beginning, with the cave paintings? 
That's a good question. I start my 
course that way becasue I have confidence 
in history. I start with some introductory 
lectures on the arts which are also 
chronological-they go right through 
history from the beginning to the 
present. That's because I do believe 
that you can trace the development, 
the unfolding of human art historically. 
And I think that when you take it 
historically, you're in the soundest 
position to develop the concepts of 
art a.s in fact they developed in human 
history itself. Now when I say develop-
ment, I don't mean improvement. I 
don't even mean it gets more complex. 
Probably there has never been an art as 
complex as the cave painting with its 
fantastic sets of imagery. I haven't the 
slightest idea of what it's all about. 

So yes, I do believe that the chron-
ological way is the right way. 

Do you see yourself identifying with 
the cultures you study, the ancient 
Greeks and the Indians at Taos and 
Santo Domingo? 

Yes, I do. It is schizophrenic, isn't it? 
You see, though, in art, in literature, 
anything like that, the point is that in 
them, through them, human beings have 
many lives, and live in many kinds of 
time, many kinds of worlds. The 
liberal arts are liberating arts. They 
liberate us from a place and space and 
time. They allow us to live in many 
families and in many landscapes. It's 
hard to do, because you have to work 
terribly hard intellectually and 
emotionally--there's no difference 
between those two. Anyone who thinks 
there is is making a great mistake. 

You have to work to feel and to think 
your way into it, and that's very 
difficult. You don't live in another 
time if you make a quick trip to 
the Gothic cathedrals and take a few 
quick pictures and say "Gee, that's 
pretty." You've got to dig. And it 
takes a long time--same with ideas. But 
when you do dig, you can begin just 
a little bit to live in many kinds of worlds. 
And I think that's why history, and in 
this particular case art history, is so 
much a basic fact of modern life. It's 
one of the good things--there may be a 
lot of bad things in modern life--one of 
the good things is that we have been 
liberated by history to live in many 
kinds 
ofworlds. 0 
This interview was conducted by Gerry 
0/anoff, a senior architecture major in 
Trumbull College, Jim Liberman, and 
Stuart Rohrer. 


**Associated Student Services**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14**

Associated 
Student 
~
fY.'"~ 
0 
••• vntverllty 
Services 
Over 15 agencies employing more 
than 200 students and serving the 
whole Yale community. 
Appliance Rentals 
Audio Equipment 
Birthday Cakes 
Caps & Gowns 
Class Rings 
Distribution 
Laundry & Dry Cleaning 
Linen Rental 
Magazine Subscriptions 
New York Times 
Newspaper Delivery 
Personalized Stationery 
Sanyak-Records 
Tutoring 
Typing 
Yale Mugs & Banners 
198 ELM STREET 
DURFEE HALL 
436-0610 
432-4687 


**"Share the poverty" (continued from page 2)**
**Author: Donald Kagan**

"Share the poverty" 
(continuedfrompage 2) 
rather than to 70%? Such a policy would 
seem to be self-defeating if economy is 
the lOal. This might be solved by 
additional staff for the Classics Depart-
ment, but if this case is at all typical, 
suflkient additions would be required 
to put the economy of the summer 
se11sion in doubt. 

Another example is Ancient History 
42b, Athenian Democracy. As it happens, 
thi.> course is taught by the only professor 
of Greek History at Yale. Once again it 
does not seem wise or economical to 
offer the course to 30% of the students 
and deprive the other 70% of the oppor-
tunity. Ancient History 42b illustrates yet 
anotner problem. The course is organized 
to include both undergraduate and 
graduate students. Experience has 
demonstrated that its clducational value 
is greatest that way. As it happens, this 
moc:'e of teaching is being strongly re-
commended now as an economy measure. 
Since there would be no graduate students 
attending courses in the summer, that 
course and any other course so organized 
could not be given in the summer. 

Eve.-yone knows that students do 
much of their learning from one another, 
especially do underclassmen learn from 
upperclassmen, and both learn from 
graduate stt~dents in their classes. The 
Committee proposes a summer term for 
fn:shmen and sophomores only. The 
qwdity of learning in such a term would 
be inc.omparably poorer than in a legiti-
mate semester. 

The proposed summer term would be 
a disappointing experience. The weather 
would be hostile to thought, the curric-
ulum narrow, the faculty inadequate in 
number and variety, the students deprived 
of the opportunity to learn from more 
experienced students--the whole thing 
a caricature 'of a reguln Yale education. 
Only the tuition fee will be up to Yale 
standards. 

Finally, it seems wrong to make the 
summer session mandatory for students. 
lf it is attractive it need not be mandatory 
lf it is mandatory, the Committee must 
assume it is not attractive. It ill also 
embarrassing, to say the least, that the 
program is mandatory for students but 
not for faculty. Why should the faculty 
not be equally required to enjoy this 
beneficial experience, or it it is not bene-
ficial, to suffer from its shortcomings? 
I should hate to have to justify this one-
sided approach either to students or to 
alumni. 
Donald Kagan 
Professor of Classics and History 


**Strauss and Mahler: Death with/without transfiguration**
**Author: John Mauceri**

Strauss and Mahler 
Oeath with/without transfiguration 
Not long ago 1 heard the Yale Philhar-
monia's stunning first performance under 
the direction of Otto Werner MueUer: 
Joan Panetti's Between Mngs of Earth, 
Volume seven, number one I October 7, 1973 I 14 
Beethoven's Eroica, and Richard Strauss' 
Death and Transfiguration. It was a con-
cert about true grit, each piece being 
tough and victorious in a very stubborn 
way. Panetti's piece, at once passive and 
beautifully lyrical, proved its ability to 
survive by a few musical karate chops 
that told you it was here to stay. Beet-
hoven's well-known symphony needs no 
further description. It was the Strauss 
which kept returning to my thoughts 
that night - partly because of the per· 
suasive performance it had received, but 
also because I had been .. verkll'rt" the 
night before by the New York Philhar-
monic's performance of Arnold Schoen-
berg's Verklllrte Nacht (Transfigured 
Night) and Strauss' Also Sprach Zarathu· 
stra, in which I could explore the mystery 
of life and death under the guise of 
Nietzsche's philosophical rubrics. 

I have always disliked Strauss' Death 
and Transfiguration because it is unbear-
ably vulgar- not just superficially vulgar, 
but really vulgar. Only a brash post-
adolescent of 25 could have written about 
old age and death in such a way. For 
young Strauss, death had something to 
do with the physical horror of fluctua-
ting heart beats, perspiration, bed pans, 
and dirty sheets. It is all there in his 
m_.sic. 

At the same time as I was thinking 
about Strauss, I was working on Mahler's 
Adagio (to be performed at the Yale 
Symphony's first concert October 26) 
from his uncompleted last work, Sym-
phony No. 10. It is also a piece about 
death, but without transfiguration. In 
the Adagio one encounters the same 
subject matter as in Death and Trans· 
figuration, although this time it is from 
the vantage point of a man who, for all 
practical purposes, is dead already. 

While composing the Adagio, Mahler was 
in the third year of his death sentence: 
he had known since 1907 of his incu-
rable heart disease and he also knew he 
would complete only nine symphonies 
like Beethoven, Schubert, Dvorak and 
Bruckner. He could never complete 
something numbered ten, but he could 
try. 

Mahler teaches us that terminal illness 
is a psychological and not a physical 
problem. The dilemma is not that you 
creak in the morning; it is knowing that 
you will never eat another apple, or 
feel a snow flake on your tongue, or 
touch someone else's skin. To these 
things he says good-bye. As in Strauss' 
Death and Transfiguration, Mahler seems 
to relive happier moments from his life 
in the Adagio; and yet, the uselessness 
of struggle and the numbing certainty 
of death's incipience are awesome. It 
exists inevitably, absolutely, and without 
exception. Occasionally one senses in 
the Mahler work a certain excitement, 
perhaps evoked by this new adventure: 
death. But mostly he is terrified and 
comprehends for the first time what 
loneliness really is. 

Strauss, who was four years younger 
than Mahler, lived to be a very old man, 
dying in 1949 at the age of 85. His last 
works are four orchestral songs which 
explore death from a very different van-
tage point. While Mahler was terminally 
ill at the age of 47, Strauss lived a full, 
prosperous, and successful life. He had, 
in fact, lived so long that he saw his 
beloved Germany rise and fall twice. The 
most moving of his last songs ends with 
a theme from his Death and Transfigu-
ration, written a half-<;entury earlier be-
fore he really knew what he was writing 
about: "Mountains slope all around us 
and the sky already darkens ... How 
weary we are of wandering: is this 
perhaps--death?" For the aged Strauss, 
death is blessed and longed-for repose 
and not the violent and calamitous strug-
gle as seen by him in his youth. 

In the upcoming Yale Symphony con-
cert, Mahler's Adagio will rest between 
two works: Strauss' Festival Prelude 
for Organ and Orchestra ( 1913) and 
Stravinsky's Rite of Spring (1913). The 
point here is to explore the end of one 
era (Austro-German symphonic superio-
rity) and the simultaneous beginning of 
another (the barbaric color symphony 
school of the French and Russians). 

1llat the Strauss work was written for 
the opening of the Wiener Konzerthaus 
(where the Yale Symphony performed 
Bernstein's Mass last summer) is a nice 
personal touch. More important, how-
ever, is that it premiered within months 
of Stravinsky's epoch-shattering Rite 
and uses approximately the same size 
orchestra. Hearing these works on the 
same program should be quite startling. 

Strauss seemed completely unaware of 
how bankrupt his style had become by 
1913. Mahler, on the other hand, 
seemed to know very early (by his third 
symphony) that his now-over-blown 
post Wagnerian style had no possible 
expansion. He was right. The year of 
his death saw the first publications of 
the "new" Viennese school; that is, the 
;ttonal music of Arnold Schoenberg and 
his two brilliant pupils, Alban Berg and 
Anton Webem. Mahler's Adagio is not 
only a good-bye to his music making (he 
actually wrote these words in an agitated 
handwriting on the Adagio manuscript) 
but also a good-bye to his musical era. 
He knew in his own mind what personal 
and artistic annihilation was. When you 
hear his last work you may not cry, but 
you may find that your mouth uncon-
sciously has dropped in the presence of 
unspeakable reality. 
John Mauceri 
it.fr. Mauceri, Assistant Professor of Music 
and Director of the Yale Symphony, was 
recently appointed Assistant Conductor 
of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. 



**The face of God... (continued from page 11)**
**Author: Bruce Howard**
**Page number(s): 15**

• 
Volume seven, number one I October 7, 19731 15 
The face of God... 
"Then what do you call that?" he 
(continued from page 11) 
replied, pointing to one of the Hormones 
ling about the stricter rules and heavier 
grinding out of the anus formation. 
work load, most admit they are proud of 
"Sure it's funny," another added with 
their improved sound, and no one has 
a blank face, "but this isn't the place for 
-threatened to quit. Mostly they can only 
humor." 

Outside the Bowl after the game an 
alumnus from Hartford shook his head 
in dismay at the 27-13 Y.lle loss to 
UConn, but stopped to cheer the Yale 
Band as it marched by on the way to 
their buses. 
"I was a little worried before the game 
when I heard a rumor that Y.lle was mak-
ing the band change its act," he said. 
••I'm glad to see it wasn't true." 

In Woodbridge Hall however the ef-
feet has already been felt. "It'; been at-
most a week," Chauncey said, "and not 
a single letter." o 
Chauncey and Brewster gave Bnon $1500 
from their ••discretionary" or personal 
office funds to pay for a new amplifier, 
an electric guitar, and other new instru-
ments. The generous administrators also 
threw in a new xerox machine, a face-
lifting for the delapidated band room, 
and even better seats for the Band at the 
Bowl--all for a group that had to reveal 
the face of God to Providence, Rhode 
Island two years ago because they 
couldn't scrape up the $200 needed for 
the bus. 

But Brion's plans to tame the Band are 
based on sincere hopes for the Band and 
not deals with the administration. " I 
think censorship is a silly, contrived 
issue," he said. "I'd be sorry to see them 
aroused over censorship when the real 
· issue is realizing their own potential. 
They've been priding themselves on being 
bad to compensate for the fact that they 
are bad." 

Still, Brion retains a healthy respect 
for the proud, if young traditions of the 
irreverent anti-band. For example, after 
Saturday's show Brion smiled and said 
"They marched pretty good. I wouldn't 
want them to get any better than that." 

Even more revealing, perhaps, is the 
fact that Brion has allowed "Luscious 
Lori" (Laitman, '75) to continue and 
even expand her act with the Band. Last 
year Luscious Lori made several names 
for herself by prancing around the field 
as voluptuously as she could, and 
hurling a baton aimlessly in the air. 
( .. Once I caught it by accident," she 
admits). This year two .. Human Hor-
mones" have joined her act. 

Luscious Lori, who claims it takes 
three grown men working ten minutes to 
get her into her costume-one on the 
zipper, two just pushing, puts no stock in 
this talk about alleged obscenity. "Parents 
aren't really offended by our shows," she 
says, .. They're just offended that their 
kids aren't offended." 

But while the debate over censorship 
rages, many untrained eyes have been 
missing out on the whole controversy. 
••That's supposed to be a new band?" 
one University of Connecticut band mem-
ber asked incredulously at the Bowl 
Saturday. 
••No more dirty jokes," a friend 
explained . 
Bruce Howard, a senior in Trumbull Col-
lege, is Editorial Page Editor of the Yale 
Daily News. 


"'food f~ t~o~ht"' 
"' t.; t\d~rAI foodf ~uw-.,t ""~~ 
'""'' (o Crow~ Stret"t 
"'nCP" U\~~ '1W'c.et.,. 
Je~~~~~Je~

ne.N york bike 
ONE OF AMERICA'S F.INEST EMPORIUMS 
320 elm street 
new haven, ct. 
n6--4052

multi-speed imports 
parts· accesories 
repairs-trade-ins 
student discount 6%% 
236 e . state street 
vvestport, ct. 
226--3263 
(across from the Yale Co-op) 

111111111111111111111111111111111 
Set your course 
for our Columbus Day sale. 
Stats Saturday, 
October 6. 
Bcrgains throughout 
the store! 
111111111 
THE YALE CO-OP 
77 Broadway, New Haven 
STORE HOURS 
Daily 9 :15- 5:30. Thursdays Until 9 



**Title: New Haven Terminal**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the
new haven
teTJ ina/
represents one of the largest and finest trans·
shipment facilities in southern New England
today. It coordinates full transfer and trucking
operations including: (a) modern pier berths
(b) stevedoring for all types of cargo, (c) ship's
agent service, (d) warehouse and o~n storage,
(e) export and import handling, and (f) a uni·
fied trucking service throughout southern New
England.

Today the Terminal maintains three major berths
affording 35' M'L 'W' at a 650' pier and a quay
with shipside rail. With these facilities. and with
New Haven Harbor's 35' deep water channel, the
largest freighters and tankers of normal draft in
use today can be acoomodated.

The Terminal's many acres of open storage, and mil·
lion cubic feet of (dry pipe protected) warehouse
space are served by spurs which connect directly
with the Penn Central main line to Boston and
New York, Hartford-Springfield-Worcester line,
etc. Motor line connections and trucks benefit from
the new Connecticut Turnpike, (New England
Thruway or Interstate 95) Exit 49 of which is less
than 500 yards away, and which leads almost im-
mediately to Interstate Route 91.



**Title: Yale School of Music: The Connoisseur Series**

Yale School of !Vlusic
The Connoisseur Series
T>JOSday Nov~MOCr 27 1S73
The Gheorghe Zamnr Ensemble
Rumanta's mo:;1 rencwne:l tnfk:ore arto$'S on :h\itr
ftrst Amertcan tour btln'JtO 1\:( w lla\'en •··~ !1'"a't..St
ltvtng vortuoso o~ tl'l:lt l"~'lt c f,rocal ons•ru.,..ent :ro
pan-ptpe. in an cxcoton(J autn~?nt.c :>rog~am cl some
of Ruman.a·s most tna11•dual nnd lovely aors "By far
the best folk spccl'lclc ,.,.,ve ever seen or heard "
-Fewllc d'Avrs de No•uchat-;o/ $.·1./l!'r::nd

Wcdnesd'ly Janu<Jry 3C 197-l
Elisabeth Schwa!"zkopf, soprano
" The appearance ~f ~ .u:X::h Sclw.1•z~<cr:los an
even! dtflocult t:> ovcrr<J:~ As m.c"l actress ;:>nd
magtcoan as songer she tmnqs c'~Q:lC!l bo.:au:y
ond the htghcst ~•<Jndard of prcc.socn cr.:fts•nanshop
to e<Jch perloron<Jnce "-Chrcag:J Tflbur.c

w.-cnesdav J •" lry 16. 1974
The Stultgart Chamber Orchastra
Karl \1unc1Hnr;t r, conc1uctcr
'I h3vc never c.l~ycd .v::h J~"Y ch3mocr orc,,.stra as
lle"~ie and hoqhly oot• ;hcd 'ih~ ·.vhole or ~';r.:;r.:ra
pl<:fS hke a qrc:u stnq au~rte:. Kart Munchonqer os
"
0e~oeler on mu~oc
"-Yehudr l.lr:onu,..,n

Monday. February 18,l974
~~--'----
Christopher Parl<ening, guitarist
W('lt on ..... w<Jy to b4'COIT'.nq one c 1 h•s r.enN3t:on·s
co,-;::ert ""'::><:::. ZG·vc.1r-otd Chr•s·cp.,er F•--~c..,ona
t3 • or.e c~ :h~ mos! brll!,ant qunansts tn the • • .,ouo ··
-An~tl'S SC'o:.utlf

Wc-:lneW&y,/\o•'J"if-fg;.l
The Waverly Consort
" A sp~rited ensemn'c of stnqers and tnstrurnentllliSI!
who ltke :Jn:l k..,< ... v n l.:>t noout mu:::·c thnt n"'ted3tes
the piano and""' ~ymot or•v orc~'~•'Str'l <Jnel hove 3
o1ft for ~h""'""' .. • ., th rtr-l"'r~ · -- ",JI-·\'1 \\,"'tk r •• ,~ .... C"'

Subscribe Now and Save 20%
Subscropttc>n proccs lor < t':cr seroos a:.- S20 nr·.J
S1G, do:?p.:-ndtn!J <Jpott th" IOt":"1t.on of I"O scats
• Th<'se prrc~$ rc~.>r<·sent OJ 20% d.scoOJnt on tndovtcu.11
ltCk('l pflces.
Subsc11bc now by rro1tl·n'J to tho Ccnccrt Office,
Ynle Schc-ol cf ~.,uslc. !':; \'/11! !:t.. N!!w Hav::n
Conn. OC!o20: a ChCC•.(t ·~1 1<: :>.,, ·~ !;· ~o Y:.oc
St"'hOOI ol : .. ~ uSt~\ :t !.! .• ··v ~! sr· ~-:!~"'!r~~S'!·j
<?~ve:opc. ano un e>~Ol'r tnd•ca:mn :!-c name of the
ser:<:!'. nu-.ocrr :of ~o,!J,;crootoons. oroc(• C:li('QOry.
::!ocoee of h'Jocony r,r orcl1cstr<j, a'ong wotn your
name. ::oddtco-s. and nooone number.
Sorar'lvC 1\1 <·mc.~•JII Inll .. ; 70 Ccllc>:;e St., t:na a
liiooil~d ,;c&ling <:ilp<o~ clly. !>t.!J~CrtiJ:oor.s woll bo foiled
•no·d.t;;r(Jt r"·\~t='l
s~ cl•nt !O.t #
..._t •rJtii'Hl~ :trt- $3.


