Publication date: 12/77
Volume 11, Issue 2

**Title: Can Yale be Neutral?**
**Author: Nick Olcott and Alisa Klaus**
**Page number(s): 2**

In 1970, a non-profit group called the Project on Corporate Responsibility sponsored a campaign among shareholders in General Motors advocating increased shareholder input into the formulation of that company's public policy, and increased attention to the social and political consequences of corporate actions. The trustees of the Yale Corporation, which holds 103,600 shares in GM, abstained from voting on the shareholder resolutions. They did so, they explained, "on the principle that the Fellows of the Corporation do not, and should not, have the power to take a corporate position on issues of a social or political nature. This principle derives from the philosophy that a university is a collegium or forum for the expression of a wide diversity of views. This conception is the cornerstone of academic freedom.'' In doing so, the Yale Corporation took the stance that its investments were ''neutral,'' and that the mere act of owning and benefitting from shares in no way implies support or criticism of a company's actions. The trustees maintained that to remain silent is to remain neutral.

A year later, chis statement met with serious questioning in a seminar project led by Professor John Simon of the Law School. The project formulated a set of guidelines for the consideration of ethical questions related to investments. Yale responded by setting up the University-wide Advisory Committee on Investment Responsibility. This body received as its sole power, however, the task of reviewing shareholder resolutions introduced by ocher shareholders and advising the Corporation on how it should vote. The Advisory Committee has never introduced a resolution of its own, and its recommendations are not binding for the Corporation's voce. In a slightly modified form, Yale maintained its "neutral" position on investments.

Yale's investments in companies operating in the Republic of South Africa pose a serious challenge to this stance of neutrality. It is becoming increasingly obvious that American investments there both directly and indirectly support the racist regime of John Vorster. Examples of direct aid are well known: IBM (Yale shares 67,650) leases computers to the South African police and prisons for the enforcement of the repressive passbook laws; GM and Ford (Yale shares 103,600and 127,500 respectively) supply trucks to the military; Citicorp and J.P. Morgan (Yale shares 36,900 and 35,200) made loans totalling $110 million to the South African government in 1976 alone. But the presence of foreign investment by its very nature, through the promotion of capital•intensive·and highly technological industry, supports the white regime indirectly by serving only the needs of the white population.

Ambassador Radha Krishna Ramphul, upcoming President of the U.N. Security Council, told the Council in March of this year,

• 'It is crystal clear that foreign investment is not geared to improving the situation in Southern Africa at present. Foreign funds are not directed to agricultural development in the rural areas or to social programmes which would benefit the life of Africans. The South African government is not using those funds ... to dismantle apartheid in some absentminded way. To the contrary, thanks to foreign investment and foreign loans, the South African government has been able to build and maintain a garrison state."

In addition, the recently enacted South African law requiring foreign concerns either to produce what the government orders or to face nationalization of their assets makes every corporation, willingly or unwillingly, an accomplice to the continuation of apartheid.

In view of such evtdence, it is plain that American corporate investment in South Africa is by no means neutral, but is a bulwark in the fortress of apartheid. This fact calls Yale's supposed neutrality in investments into serious question. If Yale continues to reap the benefits of the profits on oppression in South Africa and remains silent, can it stilJ claim that it is taking no seance? Is not this very silence a position in support of foreign investment in South Africa, in support of apartheid?