Publication date: 12/77
Volume 11, Issue 2

**Title: Close Encounters of the Third Kind**
**Author: Saratoga Summers**
**Page number(s): 2, 15**

For chose of you who do not speak Scientist, the title of writer-director Steven ·Spielberg's latest feature describes an intimate inter-planetary rendezvous. Close Encounters of the Third Kind is not a futuristic documentary about inter-earthling perversions. Rather, it is an allegorical sci-fi melodrama about two people whose intitial, illuminating brief encounter with a U.F.O. leaves diem1 haunted by its mysterious shape unttJ they find cosmic vindication of their vision. Clo.re Encounters is an enjoyable minor fantasy on eternal themes, but Spielberg's theological premise is shamelessly commerical and absurdly simplistic. Alas, at the film's end I found myself quite as lost in the proverbial stars as I had been when I hopefully paid my $4.50; and to my sense of injury at the poverty of the spiritual transaction was added the equally enduring (albeit less existential) insult of actual penury.

After the film opens with the traditional blinding explosion of white light, the director thrusts us inside a Mexican desert sandstorm reminiscent in ferocity of the Seven Plagues of Egypt. Here scientists are conducting a search for clues regarding the existence of excra-terresttiallife forms. When an inexplicably contented old man stammers in Spanish that • 'the sun has sung" co him, it is clear to all and sundry that something is rotten in the solar system. Spielberg then transports us co· the little house on the prairie in Muncie, Indiana, where Jillian Guiler (Milinda Dillon) lives with her toddler son, Barry. To his mother's horror, Barry is lured into the night by seductive extra-terrestrial vibes. She gives chase and catches him on a deserted highway where both Guilers run into Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfus), a neighbor who claims to have seen an Unidentified Flying Object. As the adults stand arguing by the roadside, several 1977 -style flying saucers fly by. Barry, delighted by the evocative conical Shape he perceives, trills out, "Ice cream!" Although Ronni Neary (ferri Garr) is understandably skeptical when her husband recounts his adventures, reports of strange phenomena all over the world (the earth) are released shortly, and Roy and Jillian rightly begin to suspect that the fault is not in themselves but in their stars after all.

In one of the picture's most striking scenes, little Barry is kidnapped by clouds of fire. Despite his mother's desperate attempts to keep him locked in the house while star wars rage outdoors, he unerringly walks to the single unlocked door and opens it. The visual allusion to The Wizard ofOz becomes manifest: standing on the threshold of a singing sun, Barry looks for all the world like Dorothy opening the door from her black-and-white Kansas homestead into the infinitely more vivid polychromatic Land of Oz. Like a supersonic Pied Piper, the U.F.O. charms the boy out into the glare and sweeps him off his feet.

Jillian and Roy become obsessed with the Shape. She cannot stop sketching it, while he sculpts it in every dollop of shaving cream, every spoonful of mashed potatoes. Each senses the importance of the cryptic image, yet neither can break the code.


**Title: Friend of Infamy**
**Page number(s): 3, 14**

If there is one thing out of a million on the face of God's green earth that excites me to a frenzy of murderous rage, it is people who exaggerate. Particularly when the people are wildly and wantonly exaggerating about one of my very closest of a close, tightly knit and devoted circle of intimates. I hear you, Josie and Colette, because I had your table bugged at George and Harry's. And the venomous prattle that you two pigs were dispensing about my CHERE AMIE, Edie-well, it drove me to shed tears of pity into my Bloody Maria. Edie is NOT a pervert. It's simply that in Edie's most private, naughty moods, she sometimes derives ravenous pleasure from lookin2 at pictures of little blond boys. You simply could not have known that, because she swore me to strictest confidence and told ME ALONE. And I only told a few people, NONE OF WHOM WOULD EVER SPEAK TO YOU. Spreading vicious rumors will get you nowhere, girls, nowhere but down in the big game of life. ·OK, case closed; I cannot linger on these petty gossips but must make haste and make a little mention of my dear dear friend VALENTINA ATHENS, who, you recall, was a star in her Yale years and has moved on all too soon into the big and burgeoning world of "Jool-yahhd," (as those in the know pronounce it) that famous music conservatory in the Big Apple. Your sweet Saratoga checked on Valentina's progress over a recent weekend, and I am delirious to report that she loves New York as much as New York loves her. And believe me, New York LOVES her. Every man in the city, and a lot of the women. Especially a lot of the ethnic types. Thank you, Val, for allowing me to share your progress report with my readers. Your name is legend, your fans legion.

STRIKE-AND-JAW BREAKERS DEPARTMENT: I know you all heard about those rugged DROLLA.IRES who wore matching T-shirts and made a beeline in the general direction of Commons and in the specific direction of a well-known picket iine the ocher day. I was there, and I HATE scene-stealers! To explain: I always believe it best to take both sides of a controversial issue. Hence while I feel the univesiry MUST negotiate and the union MUSTN'T modify its demands, I am dead against the union's position. Also, the strike caught me a bit short on kitchen appliances, and I am tired of making eggs benedict in my hotpot and broiling chicken in my popcorn popper. So I decided that I wouldn't CROSS the picket line, I'd just try to DISTRACT the picketers with my lithe and desirable form. No sooner did I stroll by in a Balenciaga sizzler than those obnoxious strikebreakers charged through the picket line and stole my thunder. Hey, folks, that ain' t no way to treat a lady! (The one guy who noticed me later deserted me when he realized I wasn't a drag queen. I was only insulted that it TOOK him so long!) But at least I have learned from bitter experience to resist the proddings of my sensitive political conscience. And not to WASTE my Balenciaga on SCUM!

I heard Bloomsbury got a haircut so I stopped by to investigate and took a little snapshot to share with my readers. Doesn't her new Mr. Kenneth cut look DIVINE? And wasn't she wonderful in Kiss Me, Kate? ... to that callow girl in the crowd at the showing of Freaks: I don't care if it WAS Halloween, those gold stiletto heel shoes are out, out, OUT! It pained us ALL to kick them into the closet, dear_:why should YOU be any different?

Which reminds me, the annual Scarsdale Royalty pageant is approaching and there's no paucity of regal gals who need escorts! My girlfriends ask that all you richer Yale guys put down the law briefs for an evening and squire one of these young lovelies. Only $30 for the evening, $10 extra for a good night smooch. "Some signs of commitment" optional. I wouldn't miss it, guys-I hear the Deep Freeze Cotillion is going to be something else this year!

BABES OFF-OFF-OFF-BROADWAY DEPARTMENT: While in New York I also paid a call upon my close friend Miss EVA GIMBELS, who was almost a sophomore here in lvytown when she decided to take an extended vacation to dabble in theater and politics. Pert Eva has landed a job as typist and secret editor of CASTING COUCH magazine, a rag that is in dire need of any employee with a vague grasp of Standard English.Just keep on grasping, Eva, and you'll be UN-secret editor before long. And then you MUST p!.!t .my picture on the cover, since I've already mentioned you here: it's only professional courtesy, dear heart ... Well, gang, buck up and carry on till next month's cram packed month I' II tell you how to make a handy bookcase out of TV dinner tins. Start saving them now! And should you need an extra measure of cheer,