Publication date: 12/78
Volume 12, Issue 2

**Title: comment. dreams and ecstasy, nasty, brutish and short**
**Author: Staff**
**Page number(s): 2**

"I dreamed I was in a purple skyscraper in New York City and Charlie's Angels were the secretaries. I was a messenger, and Kate Jackson hated me. There was a lecherous doctor who wanted to give her a shot in the ass; he caught her, she screamed, and I woke up." ... "I dreamed I got high with my dean." ... "I dreamed that my sister was six months pregnant and I was very worried. I was laughing in my sleep." ... "I dreamed I was sleeping with my girlfriend and another woman. They were both giving me pleasure. One had a big ass and the other had big tits." ... "I dreamed about a school with a war inside. For some reason, I had to turn in a check stub." ... "I dreamed about a woman giving birth to a gourd." ... "I dreamed that I was walking down Lynwood Place and I met the pervert who bothered me when I was eleven." ... "I dreamed I was turning into a sphinx." ... "I dreamed that my high school admissions counselor invited me to a large Gothic house for the weekend. I overheard him tell another guest that he was keeping me prisoner, so I climbed up through the rafters and out and through a window and onto a very slippery, moss-covered roof. I slid down, and just as I was about to reach the rotting gutter, my host appeared floating in the air in front of me, revealing himself in his true glory. And he said, 'you may never leave my island.' Defying his words, I jumped off the roof and grabbed a large orange and violet plant. Then he appeared, pointed to the plant, and said, 'you can't leave. I even control the vegetation.' At which point the grass grew upwards, surrounded me, and anesthetized me back into dreamless sleep." ... "I had a very long and complex dream about Vincent Scully. It was in color." ... "I dreamed that I was talking to my parents, whom I haven't seen in a few months, and they asked me if I'd seen any feathers lately." ... "I dreamt that the man who gives me my psych experiments came into my bedroom while I was undressing." ... "I dreamt that the colleges were segregated by race and sex and social class. The dancing teacher from Harriet the Spy was in Davenport Dining Hall, auditioning people for A Chorus Line." ... "I had this completely hallucinatory dream - I kept thinking there was someone in bed with me. Then a rhinoceros came into my living room and I shot it with a tranquilizer gun. It pissed all over the carpet." ... "I dreamed something that was so obscene it was beyond pansexual!" ... "I dreamed that I was in a drawing room full of people. Someone suddenly stood and recited a quatrain to us: 

You say that you are schemers, 
Your reasoning is clear, 
But I suspect you're dreamers 
There are no jokers here.

That's all I remember." ... "I dreamed I was at a carnival and there were all these Russians riding on the ferris wheel, and I fell instantly in love with this Russian girl. But the Russians weren't allowed off the ferris wheel, and I wasn't allowed to get on. I just stood there looking and looking. I had eaten a lot of yogurt before going to bed that night; for a week after this dream, I had yogurt every night, hoping to get back to the girl on the ferris wheel."


**Title: A&A**
**Page number(s): 3**

People who really like the Art and Architecture building are usually thinking of the mutilated outside. Or the classy lecture hall, or the Gallery, or the blueberry muffins and view of both East and West Rocks at the 7th floor coffee shop. Art and Architecture students talk about their building all the time, and rarely have anything good to say about it. It looks like a corrugated cardboard box, it's a maze, it has fluorescent lights, it's too cold or too hot, the library leaks on the reference books, the fifth floor skylights leak on the models, tall people are afraid of bumping their heads on the low ceilings and everyone can hear everyone else's radio through the studio cubicles.


The A&A is a self-conscious building. Every room must have been drawn at least once by now, even the back hallways with the contaminated water coolers; every use and misuse of space has been noticed. In places it has an almost endearing awkwardness: the stairways are decorated with Egyptian frescoes and orange benches are placed on the landings in front of them. It's too dank to sit there, but it's a nice gesture, like the big shells occasionally imbedded in the ribbed concrete.


From room to room and floor to floor, self-contained societies have evolved, separate territories with particular rituals and individual chemical smells. The top floors, civilized, airy and carpeted, belong mainly to the architects and their onion skin papers, elaborate models and slanting tables. The basement, where teachers suggest wearing baseball caps to block out the lowness of the ceiling, is full of photographers, film makers and undergraduate painters. They're painting a black still life (umbrellas, mostly, and inner tubes, a bowling ball, trunk, iron, unrecognizable metal things) and a white still life (onions, eggs, hats, stuffed animals, and a car exhaust pipe). The blue collar workers always walk through Intermediate Painting, sometimes striking mock poses on the way.


The number of scarves, berets and black sneakers increases markedly on the fourth and fifth floors. There are colored dabs and sad-eyed faces finger painted by the phone where graduate painters wipe their hands on the walls. Someone has done a faint figure drawing called "Blue Nude" impossibly high up near the ceiling on the wall of the two-story fourth floor "pit." Hundreds of canvases lean against each other in the corridors. The studios where the doors are shut indicate sacred privacy; open doors invite a chat and criticism. Every grad student's studio is a personal world. One hangs up his intricate velvety dry-points of a piece of fur and draws his benches and windows. One does angry paintings on wood; "You can be a criminal in your own studio," he says. One is building things with branches painted in red and white enamel. Sister Alysino, here for a year from Ireland, covers her walls with landscapes and drawings of carnations and pomegranates. "I never intended to be serious about this," she says, "but I'm getting more so all the time. Sometimes when I'm ready to leave, I'll think it's still a beautiful day outside and it will be night and raining. I'm so terribly absent-minded. You can lose all track of time in here."