Publication date: 12/78
Volume 12, Issue 2

**Title: To the Sublime: An Interview with Charles Ludlam**
**Author: Eva Saks**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Sawing a woman in half can be accomplished by any idiot with a sword. The trick is in putting her back together." -Charles Ludlam, circa 1978
Charles Ludlam is the acknowledged power behind the throne on which he sits at the Ridiculous Theatrical Company. For the past ten years, R.T.C. has been celebrated as New York's most innovative Off-Off-Broadway company. They are currently performing UTOPIA INCORPORATED at the Sheridan Square Playhouse, their new home. (UTOPIA is described by R.T.C.'s Executive Director Christopher Scott as being about "two -drug smugglers who get sucked into a whirlpool in the Bermuda Triangle and find themselves in a utopian civilization at the earth's inner crust."- "It's a cross between Abbott and Costello and high avant-garde drama circa 1956," he added.) The troupe ·mrs spent the past few months performing Ludlam's Camille, Stage Blood, ·and The Ventriloquist's Wife in repertory. We discussed the latter, the story of a malign-spirited ventriloquist's dummy named Walter Ego who diabolically devastates his parents, Charles and Susan.


ES: How did you become interested in ventriloquism?
CL: When I was little, my older brother gave me a dummy and I did ventriloquism. (Nobody paid any attention to me, I don't remember anyone saying it was particularly good. But recently, when I told my mother I'd got a dummy, she said, "You used to do that so well." I said, "Oh, I didn't know that.")


ES: Have you always wanted to do a show with a dummy?
CL: Yes. I'd been doing Punch and Judy (puppet shows) and I realized fd like to have a different relationship to the figure, one where I'd be a character in relation to him ... I bold these conversations with myself, two parts of myself, divided and always set in opposition. So that was really the impulse ... In fact, a number of years ago I bought a rare book on ventriloquism called "Practical Ventriloquism" by a man who was in Henry Irving's troupe at the turn of the century. (He didn't believe in using dummies, be felt that was a corruption of PURE ventriloquism, which means vocal performance, exclusively: you imitate the sound of a distant train, a voice coming from the floor; you can throw your voice to create an illusion, open a door and have a conversation with somebody who was out in the hall who's unseen. The author included a section on working with figures, but basically didn't approve of it, thought it declasse.)


ES: When did you start working on the Ventriloquist's Wife?
CL· Last summer, when there were a number of ventriloq~sts around. I was in Philadelphia doing Punch and Judy on t his stage that had been used in a circus. (The set looked very Diane Arbus sitting there; it had this wonderful quality that the Japanese call - well, SUCHNESS.) And I imagined myself sitting with this pretty, weird little screen behind me, a ventriloquist's dummy on my lap. That was on a Saturday night, and of course there was no way to get a dummy on Sunday. Th,e next day I talked about ventriloquism continuously and drove all my friends crazy, and Monday morning I got up and went to a magic shop. I saw a bunch of dummies that didn't appeal to me very much, but there was this little child sitting a"'ong the dummies and that was WALTER!


ES: You never wanted to try ventriloquism with another person as the dummy?
CL· Ac.tually, we tried it that way, but there was something wrong with the scale of a man on my knee. We were the same size ... Jerry StiJJer suggested I use Susan as the dummy (Actress Black-Eyed Susan, the flower of the R.T.C., who plays the ventriloquist's wife), but it didn't have the right effect. Also, I thought it would be wonderful if the dummy could be something PORTABLE. (Though fve realized since that the dummy is like a guitar or something; you have to CARRY it yourself, whereas you wouldn't dream of carrying puppets or another person. So maybe in the long run it's more of a burden to have Walter.) I can take Walter anywhere, and it becomes theater; wherever he is suddenly becomes a theatrical situation. If I were starving, I could take Walter to a street corner, pass the hat, and have enough money to buy a sandwich. With ventriloquism and puppetry, I had created a portable theater, a portable art form where I could indulge my extra appetite for theater, above and beyond what I could do with my ensemble, beyond what I could afford to do. As far as the play, for years I had wanted to do the story of possession, which is the ventriloquist's story ... I like the idea of the ventriloquist who's doing the dummy while the dummy still has a will, an opposing will. Because you have an opposing will within yourself ... Mentally, I catalogued the resources of ventriloquism, of what ventriloquism could do, and I used that as my vocabulary (for playwrighting). Susan and I worked together ... I taught her ventriloquism. A few of the secrets and she could do it perfectly. Susan and I decided to play out this fantasy between us. I wanted to use my own name because that made it more ambiguous, more like Games People Play ... Waiter was carved by a ventriloquist in New Jersey, but a lot of people said he looked just like me. I think I looked like that when I was a kid, but maybe I'm just projecting; maybe dummies come to look like their owners and owners begin to look like their dummies after a while. That would mean I'd be looking younger and younger in this case, so I don't mind.


Walter and I decided to work together in a puppet show. We tried the streets ... We went to this bar on Third A venue called Little Peter's - black transsexuals lip-synching to tapes, standing right on tbe floor. I went home to my Bauhaus theater chart to analyze what form of theater this was and I came out with "FAIR-GROUND." So I thought, that's where I am. I'm in a fairground, that's the nature of this. I found it very hard (to work there) because actually the lip-synch that was being done is ALSO ventriloquism - which is very funny - the performers were their own dummies! ... So I got very turned on. I thought that was where I really belonged, in this very raunchy crowd carrying on with fever and disorder - which I've always romantically thought was the true atmosphere for theater ... men and ladies of the evening and all kinds of people ... well, it was a wild and· wooly atmosphere but I don't think that THEY had the same sentimental attachment to ME that I had to THEM. I saw them as out of The Blue Angel, and they couldn't figure out what the hell I was doing there.


ES: Was the show raunchier then?
CL· No, I was doing very clean lines then; naive, almost poetic jokes about Walter's childhood. They liked a lot of it, though ultimately the place got too crazy and I left. Then Stuart Sherman, who is a conceptual theater person - he manipulates objects on small trays, and they have theatrical impact - he wanted to do his show on the streets and so did I, so we went around together. Finally, though, I decided that I didn't want to work on the streets. I couldn't get the kind of attention and concentration that I needed. The things I was doing were too subtle, and I knew I would have to change the act and become a barker, and have a very short act full of fireworks so I could slam them with it, stop, pass the hat, and move on ... But as I wrote it, The Ventriloquist's Wife had to be done in a cabaret.


ES: How does working in a cabaret differ from performing in a theater?
CL· In a cabaret, there's a certain amount of other activity that reflects the attention of the audience: people start drinking, someone turns his chair around to see better. Remember the scene in Annie Hall where she decides to go into cabaret? She's singing, and everything's going wrong - and that's what it's like, captured perfectly! But then, it's so much more of an accomplishment when a hush comes over a cabaret More of an accomplishment, in a sense, than in a theater, where people wouldn't dream of EA TJNG, or calling for a drink while you're performing. So I kind of like that, it's a demand on me. (Mr. Ludlam peruses my review of his play, published in the January 4, 1978 issue of Casting Call, which describes Walter as "strongly resembling a sex-changed Anita Bryant.")


CL· It is true that Walter's rather pretty for a demonic dummy. But there's something also about that fear of the beautiful child ... Walter scares me a little bit ... I don't like gazing at him, because Tdo get a rather bizarre feeling ... I have to get away from him sometimes. And he sometimes says unexpected things! Walter's very lucky - this whole play is a vehicle for him.


ES: Are you pleased with the play as it is?
CL· It changes from night to night. I improvise, but I don't ad-lib, and ~re is a diffe~ce. Improvisation is a t~chnique: you approach it witb guidelines, trying to 8(XX)mplish SOD.le- contimlid to JH16~ 14