Publication date: 12/78
Volume 12, Issue 2

**Title: Neo-Rationalism: A Printer for Would-be Beginners**
**Author: Frederic Hamilton**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

A "new wave" of European architects is carving out a niche in the American architectural establishment: the Italian nco-rationalists. Historically speaking, they find their roots in the self-proclaimed "Rationalist" Gruppo Sette of the late 1920s. These architects demanded an architectural aesthetic derived "exclusively from the character of necessity," and for construction to give expression to the "New Spirit" so evident to the youth of post-war Europe. The members of this group found in the work of such architects as Peter Behrens, Mies van der Rohe, Mendelsohn, Gropius, Le Corbusier and others clues to how such a vision of built form could be extracted from the necessities of the time - how indeed this New Spirit could be fulfilled. But what marks them out from the generality of that milling crowd of excited artistes who dominated the intellectual "scene" between the wars, are certain attitudes deriving from, as they themselves put it in 1926, Italy's "nature, tradition, and most of all ... the victorious period it is passing through . ., Reading between the lines of their manifestoes, one can detect, even beyond their explicit discussion of the notion of type, a concern for a whole world of issues of which the idea of typology is only a part, and which can be generally described as morphological.


The Group of Seven, for a short while prominent in Italian artistic circles, and even involved in a respectable amount of material production, wa~ eventually discarded by Fascist administrators, to be replaced by blandly monumentalist neo-classicists. Their writings were forgotten, their buildings ignored. Ignored, that is, by the mainstream: for the young leftists of the period immediately following the Second World War, their work was an inspiration. The attitudes and themes delineated in the twenties were finally grasped and began to receive the kind of critical attention necessary for their development into consistent, coherent theoretical positions. One can see in the writings of these architects the opening up of new horizons for architectural discourse, whose roots lie explicitly in the rationalism of the twenties. The architects involved in the movement were already beginning to formulate both a distinct theory and a formal "look" that would later intersect strategically with the views of entrapped and exhausted professionals of America who had been beaten down from their former brilliance by the triumph of the previous wave of European architects, the Modernists.


The most well known of this new group of neo-rationalists is Aldo Rossi. So far, his most widely published project has been the winning entry in the Modena Cemetery competition (now under construction) which, through its stark articulation of pure, though perhaps linguistically ambiguous form, is able to.draw the broad light of day into discussion with the eternally dark. Rossi will undoubtedly have a large impact on architectural thinking in the next few years, but it is important to remember that he is only one of a relatively large group of architects and intellectuals in other fields who share the same core of beliefs in common. Among these, the chief theoretician must certainly be Manfredo Tafuri, whose slight but weighty book, Architecture and Uropia, has recently been translated into this language, and who himself now makes forays of sporadic frequency into this country. At the other end of the spectrum is Carlo Aymonino, one of the most prolific of neo-rationalist builders, who has been relatively neglected on this side of the Atlantic.


But quite aside from the team's line-up, what do the "neo-rats" have to say? At first glance, their views hardly appear revolutionary, especially considering the predilection of these designers for so-called pure forms and monumental harmonies. But underneath all of this is a radical approach to architecture, the city, and, above all, to construction itself. While Tafuri declares the end of the profession, and Scolari tries, on various continents (among them Manhattan) to educate it, they unite in declaring the architect, as society's foremost expert on construction, to be absolutely central to the development of the plan, the formal, social, economic and ultimately spiritual process by which humankind's evolution is to proceed. This is not utopianism, but rather a statement of will on the part of architects to take a place which is rightfully theirs, to assume a role which reason itself allots to them. Reason? For the nco-rationalists, architecture is construction, and more than that, it is a construction of ideas, having a logical structure independent of ideological considerations, related, through its typology, to the city and embracing memory through its ordering of urban morphology. Thus architecture is the impingement of thought - of reason - on the world, the tool by which man shapes and directs both his past and his future.


Frederic Hamilton awaits the Battle of the Words on the Seventh Floor.