Publication date: March 25, 1974
Volume: seven
Issue number: three

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor: Stuart Rohrer
- Managing Editor: Alan Strasser
- Associate Editors: Steve Ballou, Dan Denton, Jane Fellner, Tammy Jacoby
- Contributing Editors: Robin Errecarte, Michael Jacobson, Martha Scarf, Dave Sleeper, Steve Sternbach
- Design: Jim Liberman
- Advertising: Lee Hanson, Jon Hertz
- Staff: Carol Eliel, Bernard Johnson, Brenda Kelly, Marla Schay, Ann Sprunt
- Publisher: Ronald Roel


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Comment: Bored? Try law. - In
- beat in England
- Speaking of dissidents
- A death in the Old Family
- We interrupt our regular programming to present: The Case of the Personal Documentary
- Flying the black flag of himself


**Title: Comment: Bored? Try law.**
**Author: In**
**Page number(s): 2**

"I taught our next President, Gerald Ford," said Myres Smith McDougal, Sterling Professor of Law, "and Governor William Scranton, who I thought would be President. Also Justices Potter Stewart and Byron White, and Nicholas Katzenbach. Those two were my brightest-White and Katzenbach.'' McDougal wore a green printer's visor, and his eyes, almost blind from two detached retina operations, peered through thick-lensed glasses. "Ford was a good B-plus student," he said of the Vice President. "He's a lot smarter than people think. I just wish he would keep his mouth shut."


Myres Smith McDougal sat in an office that felt as if it belonged in Mississippi a long time ago. The atmosphere, like McDougal's accent, had a refined Southern tinge. Books, articles, documents and reports were piled in disarray on desktops, against walls, in bookshelves and in front of windows until they almost shut out the light. The office had the dusty yet not dusty feel of an antique shop whose furniture remains as strong as the day it was built.


McDougal sat amidst the gloom and legal clutter preparing for his last term as a teacher of "Public Order in the World Community" -a system of thought known throughout the world as McDougal International Law.


In his 40 years of teaching, McDougal has written five books on international law, two books on property law, and countless articles. Two of his latest books deal with the newborn fields of undersea and outer-space law.


Myres McDougal parted with his memories gingerly, almost as if he were afraid he was imposing them. The son of a country doctor, he was born in 1906 in Burton, Miss.-a town so small that the post office has disappeared. In 1922 he entered the University of Mississippi at Oxford. Faulkner country.


"I saw Faulkner often back then," said McDougal, remembering his undergraduate days. "He was somewhat older than I, and when I attended Ole Miss he held the position of University Postmaster. And I can tell you this-he was a bad post-master, just terrible. He was alleged to say to students, 'Why the hell do I have to get your mail?' and then not get it. I took freshman English from an instructor who was said to have flunked Faulkner. Faulkner never participated in the major literary clubs, and he had brothers who were a lot more popular, good athletes and the like. Many people thought Bill a screwball.


"Faulkner used to stroll around the campus wearing a French beret and carrying a cane. He would make a special point of walking on the grass instead of the paths. Only one man I knew, a young lawyer, thought Faulkner was destined for greatness. He often said that the day would come when we all would be proud to have known him. We thought this just ridiculous."


McDougal, who hadn't read Faulkner in thirty years, echoed the old Southern school of Faulkner criticism, "I don't deny he was a powerful writer, but he exaggerated the depravity of a great many people. People we all knew. If you lived in a small town in the South you couldn't help knowing everybody. As a child I used to go with my father on calls to Negroes' and poor sharecroppers' homes. Faulkner's view differed from mine and from a lot of other people's, too."


"Senator James D. Eastland of Mississippi was a classmate of mine," said McDougal. "I was the editor of the school newspaper and he was the business manager. We both had high hopes for political careers. Senator Eastland's family made money from land and mine lost it, so I went off to England to learn law in order to make a living.


"Why law? A process of elimination mostly. At the time, there were only three respectable professions in the South: medicine, law, and the ministry. My father was a country doctor, a very successful one, and I didn't want to compete with him. The ministry was out, so that left only the law."


Later in his career, McDougal occasionally would ask Senator Eastland to support various proposals. On one occasion Eastland ("In characteristic loyalty to friends," said McDougal) simply said, "Myres, you just dictate the particulars in a letter-I don't care what they are-and I'll sign it."


After graduation, McDougal taught Latin and Greek for a time at Ole Miss before receiving a Rhodes Scholarship to study law at Oxford, England. Then, after teaching at the University of Illinois for three years, he moved to the Yale Law School, where he thought he was to work in business law with Professor William O. Douglas. But Abe Fortas, who had worked previously with Douglas, arrived to fill that position, so McDougal was forced into land law-and ended up liking it. He denied that his family's misfortunes in land dealings had anything to do with his choice.


One thing perplexed him about Northern life. "When I moved to New Haven in 1934," he said, "there used to be stables and a lot of horses in East Rock Park. Neighbors would ask me why I never rode for pleasure. Why hell, I rode so many horses before I was fifteen I never wanted to ride another again. Riding was work back then, I just couldn't understand doing it for fun."


"In my younger days," McDougal recalled, "I wanted to do everything-that's why I went into government." In 1942 he went to Washington to become Assistant General Counsel of the Lend Lease Administration. In 1943, Governor Herbert Lehman appointed him General Counsel of the Office for Relief and Rehabilitation in the State Department. "Most legal jobs are dull and pedestrian," McDougal added. "I found that a good part of the time is spent wrangling over money, or arguing with the Civil Service over who you can or can't hire, or problems with the G.A.O. My boss held so many positions, half the time I didn't even know whose payroll I was on."


He reflected over the mention of Franklin Roosevelt, and smiled. "There is little doubt that anybody from my generation thought F.D.R. a great man. I never worked with him, only men who worked for him. One story I heard about him involved a man who complained that other bureaus seemed to be doing the same task as the complainant's. President Roosevelt replied, 'I figure if I give the same job to five different people, at least one should get it done."


In 1944 McDougal returned to Yale to teach.


An incredible array of Supreme Court Justices, Congressmen, governors, and other members of the power elite have passed through the Yale Law School and McDougal's office en route to illustrious careers. He admits to no jealousy, just intense pride in their accomplishments. He remains close friends with many of them, including Justice White.

(continued on page 14)


**Title: Speaking of dissidents**
**Author:  **
**Page number(s): 3**

What hope for the future?


The forced exile from the U.S.S.R. of Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn on February 13, following the publication of The Gulag Archipelago 1918-1956, offered an internationally-publicized example of the continuing repression faced by thousands of Soviet dissidents. Since the downfall of Khrushchev in 1963, the Soviet regime has attempted to silence the dissident movement through harassment, arrest and imprisonment of suspected dissidents; Solzhenitsyn's deportation is only the most recent episode in this campaign.


The New Journal asked three Yale professors who have studied and experienced conditions in the U.S.S.R. to comment on Solzhenitsyn's case and its implications for the future of the dissident movement. In the following excerpts, Wolfgang Leonhard, Adjunct Professor of History, discusses the main tendencies of the dissident movement; Victor Erlich, Bensinger Professor of Russian Literature, and Frederick Barghoorn, Professor of Political Science, describe the roots and the influence of Solzhenitsyn's work.


Leonhard: I think the top Soviet leadership had long discussions and even some disagreement on the question of how to deal with Solzhenitsyn. Of course, they all agreed that he had to be fought against (and all of them hated him). But most likely there was some disagreement of a purely tactical nature-what was the best way to handle him? I can very well imagine that some of the neo-Stalinists were in favor of an open trial. Other leaders probably felt that world opinion would react so strongly that some of the Soviet foreign policy aims might be endangered. Therefore, the method of forced exile was chosen. Similar methods have been used in the past two years. Some of the most famous dissidents, instead of facing trial, were permitted to go to the Western world-after which their passports were withdrawn. But we have to keep in mind that these are exceptions to the rule. Roughly, for any three Soviet dissidents who are exiled to the West, there are at least 50 who are tried in the Soviet Union. They are put in long term prison camps or into psychiatric clinics.


They decided to exile Solzhenitsyn for three main reasons. The first was to prevent a worldwide protest of public opinion. Secondly, to keep him out of the country while they colored his image for the Soviet population, to prevent his becoming a martyr for any resistance movement. Their final hope was that if Solzhenitsyn was in the West, world opinion would soon forget about him.


I personally think that there is a great possibility that his family will be permitted to leave. There is one thing that is of primary importance to the Soviet government: public opinion in the United States and Western Europe, and in particular the opinion of the intellectuals. The greater the protest in the West, the more hope there is for the dissidents. Conversely, the less we speak about them, the more they are endangered.


Most dissidents are trying to make as many contacts with the Western press as possible. In the early stages of the dissident movement, around 1965 and 1966, some dissidents were hesitant to have contacts with the Western press. But the majority of the dissidents are now of the opinion that they should try to make their cases as well known as possible. Although Solzhenitsyn is mentioned more than others, we should remember that many members of the dissident movement are not able to contact the press any more, because they are already in prisons, in camps, or in psychiatric clinics.


The dissident movement emerged around the spring of 1966. This was after a period of 11 years under Khrushchev, from 1953-1964, during which a certain de-Stalinization took place, a departure from Stalin's methods and a number of reforms; these 11 years were carried with the hope that, very gradually, the Soviet Union would begin to liberalize. In the first few months after Khrushchev's downfall in October, 1964, it seemed that this course would continue. But with the first arrests of writers in the Ukraine at the end of 1965 (in particular Chomovil) and with the arrest of Sinyavsky and Daniel in Moscow and the search of Solzhenitsyn's apartment in September, 1965, it was clear that re-Stalinization was beginning. The first important protest was a letter to the Soviet leadership opposing this tendency, signed by 29 famous intellectuals-natural scientists (including Sakharov), writers, even a ballerina. The letter strongly opposed the rehabilitation of Stalin and the return to Stalinism. From that time on, the dissident movement became stronger.


Members and activists of the movement have very much in common. They are all persecuted and suppressed. They are all against the bureaucratic dictatorship, Russification, and they advocate liberalization. But they would differ in their world outlooks, and in the particular formulation of their aims, and in the methods by which they want to achieve these aims.


I think that there are three main tendencies. One of these might be




**A death in the Old Family**
**Author: Ronald Roel**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A death in the Old Family 
by Ronald Roel 
NEWS- Yale Daily (nee Yale 
News), of New Haven. Beloved 
daughter of the late Herbert W. 
Bowen, beloved wife of Francis 
M. Donahue, devoted mother of 
the late Henry Luce and Briton 
Hadden. Dear grandmother of 
Potter Stewart, R. Sargent Shri-
ver, Kingman Brewster, Wil-
liam F. Buckley, James C. 
Thomson, Calvin Trillin, Lance 
M. Liebman, Strobe Talbot, and 
countless other Yale prodigies. 
Reposing at 202 York St. In lieu 
of flowers, contributions to help 
defray expenses c/o M.A. Coles, 
241-A Yale Station, would be ap-
preciated. Services and Inter-
ment private.


For a few brief hours on the evening 
of May 4, 1973, it was almost like old 
times for the Yale Daily News, once 
"the best fraternity on fraternity 
row." On that night, 400 of Yale's 
best and brightest- that long Blue 
line of well-bred and successful 
Newsies-gathered in New Haven to 
revive the grand tradition of the an-
nual News banquet. It always had 
been the social event of the year, sat-
urated with a sea of black ties, with 
an easily-found elegance that comes 
with easily-found money, with the 
smells of power and impending pow-
er, with the feeling of belonging to ... 
well, the elite of the elite.


All this had been misplaced in the 
recent sweep of student unrest. Like 
most institutions, the News felt the 
battering of anti-institutional senti-
ments, both from within and with-
out, and the diffusion of both the 
good and bad notions which had kept 
the paper intact for 90 years. But the 
rashness and disrespect of youth was 
forgotten that night, as 400 Yale 
men (and alas! a handful of Yale wo-
men) came to honor Francis M. 
("Tacky") Donahue, the spirited 
Irish business director who was re-
tiring after 50 years of service to the 
News. Donahue had come to the 
News as a 14-year-old office boy in 
1923 after his father died and left 
seven children without support; not 
only did he eventually coordinate all 
of the paper's advertising accounts, 
he became a symbol of continuity 
amid change, a critical father as well 
as a gentle advisor and confidant to 
the endless string of "his boys."


So the 92nd News banquet was a 
"thanks for the memories": a leisure-
ly cocktail hour in the red-carpeted 
President's Room of Woolsey Hall, 
followed by a handsome meal of 
roast rib of beef and Beaujolais, 
Idaho potatoes and asparagus with 
lemon and butter sauce, vanilla nut-
roll with hot fudge topping. Admit-
tedly, some of the old grace had been 
lost. Some of the younger Newsies 
wore rented, not owned, tuxedos; 
some laughed a little too loud; a 
young lady took it upon herself to 
smoke a cigar.


All in all, however, it was a fine 
affair. President Nixon sent his re-
gards through White House Ad-
visor Jonathan Rose, chairman of 
the 1963 News board. The alumni of 
happy, golden by-gone days ex-
changed views with their younger, 
brassier successors-most of them 
no brighter than their elders, but per-
haps more interesting and question-
ing, less serene, but less smug. For 
wit and charm and eloquence, no one 
could match Francis' favorite chair-
man, William F. Buckley, Jr., who, 
in that manner only his own, gave 
the audience an object lesson in just 
how the English language should be 
shaped and spoken. He neatly skew-
ered two of his favorite targets, 
President Brewster and Yale Chap-
lain William Sloane Coffin; remi-
nisced over a warm and well-remem-
bered Yale past; appealed to the 
young for adherence to standards 
and devotion to craft; and celebrated 
the guest of honor as "first among all 
who have appeared at these ban-
quets, in the affection and admira-
tion of this company." And when 
Francis M. Donahue was presented 
with an inscribed silver cup and as-
surances that $80,000 had been 
raised to buy a monthly annuity for 
him and his wife, there was little left 
to say.


Although The New York Times re-
ported the next day that the banquet 
might indicate a partial return to the 
"old boy" school, it seemed clear 
that time had been peeled away only 
for the night. The 1973 News ban-
quet was in fact a last supper-not a 
hint of the future, but the end of an 
age. There would be other News ban-
quets, but the old News, like the old 
Yale, was dead, perhaps for the bet-
ter.


The question was: what would be 
the new meaning of the News, the 
News without the Francis Donahue 
myth, without the magic of the chair-
manship, without the 80-hour-a-week 
heel, the big profits, the recognition, 
the promise of success? What was 
the long term prospect for the Oldest 
College Daily in the face of inflation-
ary costs; the loss of lucrative na-
tional advertising accounts; an intro-
verted student body concerned more 
with its academic performance than 
its extracurricular experiences? And 
what of the half-million-dollar libel 
suit filed against the News for an er-
ror made in the paper's 1973 edition 
of the Insider's Guide to the Col-
leges?


The answers are obscure; they al-
ways seem to emerge from our blind 
side. But as Yale's 1974 admissions 
committee chooses the class that will 
govern the 100th board of the Yale 
Daily News, one thing is certain: the 
future weighs heavily on the achieve-
ments of one particular Eli-Eli 
Spielman, the present editor-in-chief 
-and his band of merry (and not so 
merry) Newsies.


1 
Nicknamed the Oldest College Daily 
(OCD), the News is just that-more 
or less. Vol. I, No. 1 of the Yale News 
made its appearance on January 28, 
1878, after a Yale senior named Her-
bert W. Bowen became convinced 
that Yale should have a daily paper. 
Having obtained financial backing 
from classmate Frank V. McDonald 
("whose purse was always full"), 
Bowen decided to pursue the experi-
ment. The first four-page issue began 
with a statement of purpose that 
would reflect the restless notions of 
students throughout the following 
decades, and even to the present 
day: 

The innovation which we begin by 
this morning's issue is justified by 
the dullness of the times, and by the 
demand for news among us. Ever 
since the Record and the Courant


**The Soviet Dissident Movement**
**Author:  Victor Erlich, Wolfgang Leonhard, and Frederick Barghoorn**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

--- Page 4 ---

called liberal socialist. The main 
spokesman of this group is the nat-
ural scientist and winner of the Lenin 
and Stalin Prize, Andrei Sakharov. 
This reform movement is aspiring to 
a democratization, the abolition of 
censorship, the curbing of the secret 
police, the introduction of the rule of 
law in the Soviet Union, economic 
reform, and amnesty for all political 
prisoners. Some of them believe that 
these reforms might come about 
even in the one-party system, but 
with a tremendous change in the 
Party itself. The majority of the 
liberal-socialists would prefer a 
multi-party system on socialist 
foundations. They are combining 
their struggle for democratization 
and liberalization with a sympathy 
for social democratic movements.and 
liberals in Western Europe and the 
United States. Many of them are 
natural scientists; some are econo-
mists and they state that the Soviet 
Union cannot successfully achieve 
the scientific and technological rev-
olution of our time if it doesn't 
change the system accordingly. 
The second tendency is ethical or 
religious in nature, and is sometimes 
labeled ethical socialist. Their aims 
are exactly the same as those of the 
liberal-socialists. But they strongly 
maintain that no economic and poli-
tical reforms have any value or can 
really be pursued without an ethical 
and moral regeneration of Soviet 
society. Some stress Christianity, 
some a non-denominational religious 
basis, and some purely ethical 
grounds. The main spokesman is 
Lev Venkov, who wrote Thought, 
the pragmatic manifesto of this 
ethical group. The theologian 
Krasnov Levitin is the most out-
spoken of the group. He has written 
many remarkable books, none of 
which were published in the Soviet 
Union, but which were spread clan-
destinely. It is likely that Solzhen-
itsyn is very friendly to this trend 
of the dissident movement. 
There is a third trend which is 
oppositional Marxist-Leninist. They 
adhere to the October Revolution 
and to the Leninist period of the 
Soviet Union, seeing the whole 
departure from the original ideas as 
having come after Lenin's death. 
Like the first two groups, they favor 
the democratization of society, the 
abolition of censorship, and the 
reduction of the power of the 
secret police. But it is not for the 
sake of democracy alone, but for the 
concept of a socialist democracy; 
they stress this distinction very 
much indeed. They also believe that 
a renaissance of Marxism might 
transform the Communist Party. 
The most outspoken leader of this 
group is Roy Medvedyev, who wrote 
On Socialist Democracy. 
Volume seven, number three I March 25, 19741 ~ 
This book is as important for the 
third trend as Levitin and Solzhen-
itsyn are for the second one, and 
Sakharov's manifesto, Progress, 
Coexistence, and Intellectual 
Freedom, is for the first. 
These would be the three main ten-
dencies in the Soviet dissident move-
ment, but they work together, of 
course, because they have a common 
enemy and common aims. 
When I spoke now about the three 
tendencies, I meant their philosoph-
ical background, and their differ-
ences in politics and philosophy. 
At the same time we have those who 
favor an evolutionary transfor-
mation, and those who believe that 
only a direct revolutionary struggle 
can cause this transformation. 
Medvedyev, a Marxist-Leninist, has 
great hope that the government can 
be evolutionarily transformed with 
the help of the more enlightened 
reformist groups in the Party. On the 
other hand there is General Grig-
orenko, a member of the Communist 
Party for almost 30 years, promoted 
to the rank of general during World 
War II, and later a professor of mili-
tary cybernetics in the Frunzer 
Military Academy (the highest mili-
tary academy in the Soviet Union). 
He broke away and became not just 
a dissident but the leading revolu-
tionary figure of the dissident move-
ment. He is an old and sick man now, 
for he has been in a psychiatric clinic 
for many years. 
It would be difficult to say if Solz-
henitsyn is evolutionary or revolu-
tionary, because he has never made 
his personal viewpoint on the issue 
very clear. But there is no question 
that his books, in particular Gulag 
Archipelago, are much stronger in 
their criticism than the other two 
most famous books of the Soviet dis-
sident movement, Medvedyev's 
On Socialist Democracy and 
Sakharov's Progress, Coexistence, 
and Intellectual Freedom. 
Based on the work of my good 
friend Boris Levitsky, who has 
studied about 800 political prisoners, 
we can say that those who openly 
signed petitions with their names 
and addresses are primarily intellec-
tuals; many of them are natural 
scientists, writers and poets, 
engineers, a few educated military 
officers, economists, and lawyers. 
But if we look at those who are tried 
at the political trials for belonging 
to the dissident movement and/or 
spreading their materials, we get a 
very different picture-only slightly 
more than half are intellectuals. The 
other half are common, ordinary 
people. Many are intelligent and 
educated blue-collar workers, among 
them truck drivers. There are very 
few civil servants and very few 
collective farmers, which implies 
that it's primarily an urban move-
ment and still led and carried by the 
intellectuals. 
We have to differentiate between 
the dissident movement in Russia 
proper and the movement in the 
non-Russian parts of the Soviet 
Union. In Russia proper, it's still 
heavily dominated by the intellec-
tuals. In the non-Russian parts of 
the Soviet Union, it is much more a 
mass movement; in the Baltic 
countries, the Ukraine, the 
Caucasus, and Soviet Central Asia, 
the struggle for the democratization 
of the regime is combined with a 
struggle against Russification, and .#J 
for national autonomy. For instance, 
the most vocal members of the whole 
dissident movement are the Crimean 
Tartars, who were deported from the 
Crimea in 1944 and are still not 
permitted to return to their home-
lands. Petitions of Crimean Tartars 
have been signed by more than 
60,000 people. 
There are two ways of spreading 
your opinions in the Soviet Union. 
One is the method of Samisdat, 
which is sometimes called the 
"five" method. This means that you 
type five copies of your Samisdat 
material; it can be a non-political 
reform program, poetry, a novel, 
or an historical, philosophical, or 
theological essay. You give it to your 
trusted friends, who in turn type five 
copies and return the original. Quite 
a lot of material is spread all over 
the Soviet Union with this snowball 
system. It has been estimated that ' J 
from 140,000 to 180,000 Samisdat 
copies of Solzhenitsyn's works exist. 
The practice is so widespread that 
there are people who literally do not 
read anything which is convention-
ally printed-they only read Samis-
dat materials. There are even jokes 
about the Samisdat: one Soviet 
citizen of about 45 goes to another 
one and finds that he is typing a 
textbook for ninth-grade physics. 
So he says, "What are you doing? 
Why should you retype a textbook 
that you can buy in every store?" 
The other replies,"Well, what can I 
do? My son doesn't read anything 
printed anymore." 
The second and more important 
way of transmitting information is 
through the Russian language broad-
casts of Western radio stations, par-
ticularly Radio Liberty, the Russian '.J 
broadcast from BBC London, the 
German Wave, Radio Israel, and to 
a certain degree the Russian broad-
cast from The Voice of America. 
Through these Russian-language 
broadcasts, the Soviet population 
gets to know the contents of the 
Samisdat materials because, to a 
high degree, Russian language 
broadcasts from the West transmit 
more Samisdat than their own com-


--- Page 5 ---

Volume seven, number three! March 25, 19741 5 
mentaries. This is one of the reasons 
why the Soviet leadership is pressing 
so hard to stop the broadcasts. 
To estimate the strength of the 
dissident movement would be very 
difficult. I would think that there are 
somewhere around 5,000-10,000 
active members of the movement 
writing these materials and distri-
buting them. This may sound like 
very few in a country of 240 million. 
It might sound like very much if we 
remember that around 1909, eight 
years before the October Revolution, 
there were not many more than 
15,000-10,000 activists struggling 
against the Czarist regime. 
Erlich and Barghoom explain, in 
more detail, the case of Solzhenitsyn: 
Erlich: A major reason for the So-
viets waging such a vicious cam-
paign against Solzhenitsyn is be-
cause of the nature of his latest mes-
sage, contained in The Gulag Archi-
pelago. He takes the story all the 
way back to the first years of the 
Revolution. 
Solzhenitsyn is not content 
with blaming Stalin for what hap-
pened in Russia. He also places a 
great deal of blame on Lenin, and 
this is absolutely unthinkable as far 
as the Soviet regime is concerned. 
This is a regime whose legitimacy, 
such as it is, is largely an ideological 
one. They are unhappy about the vio-
lent attacks on Stalin, but challenges 
to Stalin can be localized-the Stalin 
cult collapsed in the Soviet Union 
some time ago. But the Lenin cult 
has replaced it, and to challenge or 
criticize Lenin is rank heresy. 
One Day in the Life of Ivan Den-
isovitch was a bombshell, because 
Solzhenitsyn broke a taboo. Millions 
of Russians knew about the exis-
tence of the Soviet forced-labor camp 
system-many of them knew it 
through their own experience. But 
this was a "non-subject," an "un-in-
stitution," as it were. As a fellow dis-
sident put it, the crucial thing about 
Solzhenitsyn's debut was that he 
had the courage to say what many 
people knew to be true, but did not 
dare articulate. 
Solzhenitsyn established himself 
as a spokesman, not for any particu-
lar ideology, nor any specific chal-
lenge to the regime, but for the mil-
lions of silent Russians who have 
gone through the ordeal that he por-
trays so vividly. 
Barghoom believes that Solzhen-
itsyn's roots are in the pre-Commu-
nist Russian culture, a culture that 
was suppressed by the regime, but 
never completely destroyed. Barg-
hoom also calls Solzhenitsyn's mo-
tivation a very patriotic one that 
could be held by almost any Commu-
nist. Solzhenitsyn got in trouble ar-
ticulating his criticism of Stalin in 
letters to his schoolmate, for which 
he was arrested. 
Barghoom adds that the Soviet 
press has accused Solzhenitsyn of 
being bourgeois. Yet Barghoom 
points out that although he came 
from a bourgeois family, his father 
died young, leaving his mother, a 
schoolteacher, to support the family. 
He grew up in poverty. 
Erlich explains the roots of Sol-
zhenitsyn's non-ideological approach: 
The dissident movement has drawn 
upon the great tradition of literary 
non-conformism and literary dissent 
which is part and parcel of 19th cen-
tury Russian literature. This tra-
dition was driven underground by 
Stalin in the thirties, forties and 
early fifties. When the air became 
just a bit more breathable after 
Stalin's death, due to Khrushchev's 
half-hearted but still audible call 
for some plain speaking; it was main-
ly the writer who came to the fore to 
offer some bits of a submerged story. 
At this time, writers were heard to 
say, "We have been squelched as in-
dividuals. We have been pushed 
around, and we think the time has 
come for the individual to speak out." 
Barghoom states that Solzhen-
itsyn takes a "militant moralistic 
position." It is this moral outlook 
and his insistence on telling the truth 
which finally got him expelled from 
the Soviet Writer's League in 1969, 
in part because of the content of One 
Day. 
Erlich: Solzhenitsyn is a major 
writer. His importance is inseparable 
from, and to a large extent ascribable 
to, his moral force and the scope and 
indispensability of his message. I 
consider him a writer of remarkable 
gifts. Though he has a very fine com-
mand of language, he is not one 
of the greatest contemporary styl-
ists. But he is a remarkable story-
teller. The First Circle, apart from 
being an invaluable account of the 
Stalinist system, is a narrative tour 
de force. August 1914 is not quite 
so well constructed. At his best, 
Solzhenitsyn is a remarkably re-
sourceful novelist. Even more 
striking than his ability to tell a 
compelling story is his ability to 
encompass a variety of vividly real-
ized characters within a very confin-
ing milieu-be it a KGB institute or 
the cancer ward of a hospital. 
Solzhenitsyn has a sense of charac-
ter that is very rare these days, 
which in fact may now be called old-
fashioned. Many of Solzhenitsyn's 
virtues are old-fashioned. He is not a 
modern writer par excellence. He 
is a realist if I ever saw one, operating 
powerfully within a 19th century 
realistic tradition. But I'll still take 
a first-rate realist rather than a 
second-rate modernist any time. 
Barghoom, like Erlich, places 
Solzhenitsyn in the classical Russian 
literary tradition. He adds, however, 
that this tradition now clashes with 
Socialist Realism. "Solzhenitsyn was 
in a straightjacket in this system." 
"Solzhenitsyn is a very special 
case," Barghoom summarizes, "be-
cause he lies somewhat outside the 
mainstream of the dissident move-
ment. He regards himself as a moral 
critic." As a moralist, he differs 
much from other Soviet dissidents in 
that he espouses no ideological ideas. 
Barghoom thinks Solzhenitsyn has 
more of an affinity to the Slavophiles 
of the 19th century. "He emphasizes 
Russian historical values. He is a 
Russian patriot." 
Each professor had something 
to say about the future-both of 
Solzhenitsyn and of the dissident 
movement: 
Erlich: Solzhenitsyn's future as a 
public force is obviously precarious. 
The Soviets are doing their best to 
drive a wedge between Solzhenitsyn 
and his natural constituency, and for 
all I know, they may be making 
some headway. On the one hand they 
would like the Russians to forget 
about his existence. On the other 
hand, as long as they print 16-col-
umn articles about him, as they just 
did in the organ of the Soviet Writ-
er's Union, they are not exactly con-
tributing to this goal. Their hope is 
that he will be a 90-day wonder in the 
West, and that in three months he 
will be forgotten. Now that Solzhen-
itsyn is absent from Russia, they 
are hoping that he will sink into the 
woodwork. This is not so easily 
achieved, since he is not a man who 
Victor Erlich (left), born in Petrograd (now 
Leningrad) in 1914, lived in Warsaw from 
1918 to 1939. He taught for 14 years at the 
University of Washington before joining the 
Yale faculty in 1963. He has published books 
on Gogol, Russian formalism and modern 
Russian poetry. 
Soviet-educated Wolfgang Leonhard (right) 
worked as a propagandist, teacher and jour-
nalist in the U.S.S.R. and E. Germany before 
defecting to Yugoslavia in 1949. He came to 
Yale in 1966, and has written three books; his 
last, Three Faces of Marxism, was recently 
published by Holt/Rinehart/Winston. 
Frederick Barghoorn has written extensively 
about the dissidents; he edited Chornovil's 
letters. In 1963 he was held "hostage" in a 
Moscow prison for 12 days until President 
Kennedy secured his release. 
can be easily silenced. But it is en-
tirely possible that after he finally 
buys a house in Switzerland some of 
the Western press may lose interest 
in him. A great deal will depend on 
what he does next. 
Speaking of the dissident move-
ment in general, Barghoom says: 
The future of the dissidents in the 
U.S.S.R. will depend on the total 
pattern of international affairs in the 
next few years. It will depend on the 
West remaining viable and vigorous 
with something to say to the East. 
World peace must be maintained, 
and the Sino-Soviet relations will al-
so figure. All of these variables make 
prediction extremely difficult. 
Barghoom believes that there is 
only a "small hope" for liberalization 
in the U.S.S.R. in the coming decade. 
He remarks that in the last 4 or 
5 months a debate has been going on 
between people like Sakharov and 
Solzhenitsyn on the one hand, and 
people like Medvedyev on the other, 
about the current foreign policy line 
in the U.S.S.R. Sakharov and 
Solzhenitsyn argue that detente 
endangered dissenters and worked 
against liberalization. Medvedyev 
says that in the long run, increased 
contacts with the West will help 
liberalization. 
Barghoom: There is a need to 
press for the principle of individual 
freedom and legality and to hold the 
U.S.S.R. to the terms of the U.N. 
doctrine. When change comes, it will 
probably come partly from the politi-
cal system through reform leaders 
like Khrushchev and pressure from 
certain elements in the population, 
like scientists and intellectuals, and 
possibly from pressure from liberal 
foreign communist countries like 
Italy. 
Leonhard: In the last two or three 
years the Soviet regime has cracked 
down so hard that the power and in-
fluence of the dissident movement 
has been considerably weakened. 
But I think they still have a great 
role in the future and I can foresee 
clearly that we will have monuments 
in big Soviet cities of Solzhenitsyn, 
Sakharov, Amalrik, Bukovsky, and 
Grigorenko. 0 



**A History of the Yale Daily News**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
f') 
Volume seven, number three !March 25, 197417 
have changed to semi-monthlies, or 
in other words, have become as 
newsy and approachable as the Lit., 
there has been an apparent neces-
sity of having an unpretentious 
sheet which should contain the 
latest news, and short, pithy ar-
ticles of interest. It is our purpose 
to publish such a sheet daily ... 
The mild-mannered issue sold for a 
nickel (an outrageous price) with the 
promise that the price would be low-
ered (it was) as soon as the paper was 
assured of financial success. Indeed, 
1it was a paying proposition from the 
start, and Bowen would write later 
that he and McDonald "always di-
vided at least ten dollars a week as 
net profits." Bowen, who ultimately 
went on to achieve the distinction of 
becoming ambassador to Venezuela 
under President McKinley, did all 
the writing, editing, proofreading 
and selling of advertising until his 
graduation in June. McDonald, 
whom his classmate William Howard 
Taft would remember as "an odd 
stick, with something of the fanatic 
about him," enrolled the News as a 
subscriber to the world's first com-
mercial telephone exchange, which 
opened in New Haven the same day 
the News was born. 

While the two sponsors wished 
their successors well, they apparent-
ly were content to let the News die 
after their departure. Nevertheless, 
John W. Keller '79, a writer for the 
..J 1878 publication, decided to relaunch 
the Yale News the following year as a 
"personal, individual venture" ; that, 
is, as almost a one-man editorial and 
fmancial operation. Not that the de-
mand for the OCD was overwhelm-
ing: Keller's classmates told him 
they were disgusted with the '78 
News, and the faculty were barely 
tolerant-one professor told Keller 
that "men did not come to college to 
conduct newspapers ." 

In spite of all that, " Bull" Kel-
ler felt he had "a taste for journal-
ism," and contracted a printer on the 
agreement that the printer would 
take all income from the publication 
while Keller would foot any losses. 
Thus, on January 9 , 1879, a second 
Vol. I, No.1 of the Yale News 
appeared-Keller would have 
changed the name, except for the ex-
pense of making a new copper plate 
for the title, and for the feeling that 
it was, after all, the correct name for 
such a publication. He was not as 
lucky as Bowen, however, and soon 
accumulated a large deficit. Al-
though he returned to New Haven 
the following fall, hoping somehow 
to recover his losses, Keller even-
tually gave up and went to New 
York, there to become a journalist 
struggling to pay off his debts. 

And so Keller left, while the News 
stayed to become the first college 
daily in the world (both Harvard and 
Dartmouth already had papers, but 
the OCD still claimed the title as the 
oldest college paper of continuous 
daily publication). During the next 
40 years, the News spearheaded a 
literary and journalistic renaissance 
at a college once known as a bastion 
of science, linguistics and theology. 
The OCD established itself as an 
organization for the " solid men," the 
campus managers. Heeling became 
an honorable profession: 30 to 70 
students would show up for the first 
News heel, which began after the 
Princeton game and continued for a 
number of grueling months, during 
which the heelers were reported 
never to have slept more than four 
hours a night. The heelers received 
points for selling ads, writing ar-
ticles, digging up unassigned stories, 
getting coffee for the editors, 
straightening up the office- the idea 
was to accumulate the most points 
and win the heeling competition, for 
the winner of the first heel often 
would become chairman, if he did not 
end up in the infirmary instead. 

Academic demands remained light 
during the early 1900's. Exams were 
considered " duck soup" if one 
simply studied his class notes. (In-
stead of special papers, "10-minute 
papers" covering the previous day's 
assignment were sometimes re-
quired.) Thus, when students were 
not involved in a heel, they lived-
and were expected to live-with a 
certain Elizabethan gusto-so much 
so that the 1914 N ews chairman was 
prompted to question why the Col-
lege was filled with so many "utterly 
shiftless bipeds. '' One surviving 
chairman of this period is fond of tel-
ling the story of a friend who, when 
congratulated on commencement 
day for having graduated from col-
lege, turned to the well-wisher and 
said: " My dear fellow, being con-
gratulated upon one's graduation 
from Yale is like taking a boat from 
Paris to New York and being con-
gratulated upon arriving at one's 
destination for not having fallen 
overboard.'' 

The Tiffany-and-Brooks-Brothers 
Yale that Briton Hadden and Henry 
Luce found when they came to-
gether from Hotchkiss was conser-
vative in thought and Republican in 
politics. When the two were fresh-
men, the News pulled its own version 
of " Dewey Defeats Trwnan": on the 
morning after Election Day, 1916, 
the editors decided to go to press 
without waiting for the California re-
turns, ~ssuming that Charles 
Hughes had defeated the Pri.nce-
tonian, Woodrow Wilson. They led 
their election extra with a banner 
headline: " Charles Hughes Elected 
President." 

As Yale became involved in the 
flurry of theW ar, prohibition, wo-
men's suffrage, Bolshevism, the free 
love movement, and F. Scott Fitz-
gerald's new novel about college life, 
Hadden and Luce were tapped by 
Skull and Bones and for two years 
led the Yale Daily News as chairman 
and managing editor, respectively. 
Three years after graduation, the 
two Bonesmen/ Newsies founded 
Time magazine, with a list of editors 
and contributors that read like a 
Yale College catalogue. Hadden 
would die six years later, but Luce's 
master stroke would remain in the 
minds of Newsies for decades after 
the founding of Time ; indeed, it was 
this entrepreneurial legend which 
seemed to give the News its special 
smell of ambition and success. 

By the time Yale's new president, 
James R{)wland Angell, arrived in 
1921, it was clear that in comparison 
to the chairman of the News, the 
president's role on campus would be 
modest. Like the presidents before 
and after him, Angell did not confer 
with undergraduates often, but when 
he did, he invariably met with the 
chairman. The two would discuss 
whatever was front and center for 
the day: pressing academic and na-
tional issues, and campus gossip. 
There were differences of opinion, of 
course, but it was all terribly polite. 
The chairman paid attention to the 
president because his comments 
could spark interesting editorials. 
And the president listened to the 
chairman because he was a spokes-
man for student opinion, a surrogate 
student body president for a student 
body that always refused to elect 
one. (Yale students have traditional-
ly been allergic to "sandbox 
democracy.'') 

While the chairman of the News 
wrote most of the editorials, he had 
little to do with running the daily 
paper. Held in awe by the under-
classmen, he was a powerful, almost 
a national, figure whose opinions 
held great weight (even as late as 
1967, when James Reston devoted an 
entire New York Times column to a 
discussion of the thoughtful and sen-
sible chairman, Strobe Talbot, who 
was arguing against the Vietnam 
War). The chairmanship was per-
haps the best job its holders would 
ever have: 1953 chairman James C. 
Thomson, now curator of the Nieman 
Foundation journalism fellowships 
at Harvard, recalls the time when an 
uncle who was editor of the Hartford 
Courant came to visit him at the 
News, and, struck by the plush quar-
ters and freedom from publishers 
and outside interference, assured 
Thomson that he would never have it 
so good again. 

One of the chairmen President 
Angell would meet was Carlos 
French Stoddard, Jr., w~o was a 
m ember of the class of '26, known for 
its vibrance and four freshman riots. 
" Tot" or "Tammany" Stoddard w~s 
a dedicated Newsie. As a heeler, he 
had seven papers delivered to his 
room so he could get up at 5:30 
a .m.-before the other heelers had got-
ten out of bed-to clip out articles for 
editorial suggestions . What bothered 
Stoddard most as he climbed to the 
chairmanship was the tradition of 
compulsory chapel attendance: it 
was no longer meaningful. Students 
would stumble into chapel every 
morning; sleep, study or read the 
N ews (which was in Yale Station by 
7:30) while the service rotely pro-
gressed through its daily pattern; 
and then stumble out again. 

Tammany Stoddard decided to do 
something about the anti-cllapel sen-
timents that had been building over 
the last 10 years-not through an 
angry crusade, but through a "rea-
sonable" approach. He deftly prod-
ded the campus with editorials. He 
invited the Yale Corporation to 
write out its defense of the morning 
misery. And he conducted a dining 
hall poll of undergraduates on the 
question. His findings: 241 in favor, 
1,681 against compulsory chapel 

At first, the faculty and Corpora-


--- Page 8 ---

tion balked, and voted to retain ·all 
existing chapel requirements. But 
the News eventually stumbled upon 
an article by a Harvard professor 
praising the voluntary system at 
Harvard's Appleton Chapel, adding 
that Yale's chaplain, Dean Charles 
Reynolds Brown, told him "he would 
rather preach at Harvard than any-
where else because he knows that he 
has a voluntary audience." Dean 
Brown suddenly reconsidered his 
previous support for compulsory 
chapel, and delivered an eloquent 
appeal for its elimination. Corpora-
tion member Rev. Henry Sloane 
Coffm (the present chaplain's uncle) 
was appalled; but the faculty took 
heart, and voted 29-12 to abrogate all 
chapel regulations. The Yale Corpo-
ration eventually affirmed this vote, 
and the victorious OCD claimed 
credit for effecting one of the most 
important educational changes at 
Yale before coeducation. 

2 
The Depression was actually a 
boon to the Daily News. Advertising 
was better than ever, and the News 
continued to earn healthy (or un-
healthy, depending on your ideology) 
profits: the 1932 board reportedly 
netted an astounding $27,000 during 
the very depths of the nation's 
slump. While the college remained 
soundly Republican, the mood on 
campus, as in the nation, swung to 
self-criticism. This change was not 
reflected as much in the News as it 
was in the birth of an explosive pub-
lication called the Harkness Hoot. 
The Hoot, established by two dis-
gruntled editors of the Lit., was a 
brilliant coterie of iconoclasts, loud 
in speech, brutal in analysis, unin-
hibited in its attack of old Yale 
values. Its writers seethed at Amer-
ican materialism, challenged the 
Gothic architecture plan for Yale, 
and called for an end to the senior 
societies. Founded in 1930, the Hoot 
lasted four years and was discon-
tinued by its sponsors, who thought 
it better to go out with a bang 
than to become another domesti-
cated Yale tradition. 

Perhaps the most significant 
change in the News at the time was a 
physical one: a moving of its offices 
from the basement of Fayerweather 
Hall in the Berkeley Oval (now Ber-
keley College) to its present Tudor-
style home at 202 York Street. 
Built by Luce as a memorial to 
Briton Hadden, the $100,000 offices 
were handsome, ample, even lavish. 
In his novel, The Paragon •. John 
Knowles (News editorial secretary, 
1949) wrote that the paper's board-
room, "because of the sober execu-
tive elegance of its paneling and its 
other appointments, could have 
made the directors of the United 
States Steel Corporation feel at 
home." Thirty years later, Luce, ever 
the visionary, would consider adding 
a wine cellar to the building, but 
Francis Donahue, among others, 
convinced him to refurbish the office 
instead. 

The 1930's produced an impressive 
string of Newsies: H.J. Heinz II, 
Jonathan Bingham, John Hersey, 
William Bundy, Sargent Shriver, 
William Scranton, and "King" 
Brewster, who began his climb for 
the chairmanship as Potter Stewart 
was ending his career as chairman. 
Like his predecessors, Brewster 
viewed the chairmanship as an am-
bassadorial, rather than a journalis-
tic, venture. Being chainnan did not 
necessarily indicate that one was the 
best journalist on the board (the 
managing editor ~sually was), nor 
did it indicate that one was aimed for 
a journalistic career. On the contra-
ry, until the mid-50's, most chairmen 
were expected to become scholars or 
statesmen-"men of affairs." It was 
the Harvard Crimson alumni who 
were supposed to go into mere re-
porting. William F. Buckley (the 
1950 chairman) was an exception, of 
course, but even he entered a career 
through an ideological approach and 
came out the journalistic end. 

For Brewster, the bright college 
years were ones of political preten-
sions, literary self-consciousness, 
and very sure feelings that what one 
was doing was terribly important-
"we were trying to save the world, 
not just Yale." (Perhaps this is why, 
30 years later, he was able to under-
stand the grand self-importance 
which Yale students attached to 
themselves during the Mayday 
spring of 1970-because Brewster
Volume seven, number tbreel March 26, 1974j 8 
himself knew the feeling too well.) 
Fearing that President Roosevelt 
was pushing the nation toward war 
"without a fair hearing and popular 
debate," Brewster joined the isola-
tionist America First movement, 
arguing that students should be al-
low~ to attend peace rallies, and 
even testifying before a congres-
sional committee that the U.S. 
should refrain from providing aid to 
Britain. 

Whatever the pretensions of the 
day, Brewster enjoyed his command 
at the News-and enjoyed it fully. 
He directed "distressingly little at-
tention to education" (although he 
claims his grades went up during the 
heel); spent a fair amount of time 
gossiping with President Seymour, 
looking for things to write about; 
and usually wrote three editorials a 
week-the three other editorials 
(there was a Saturday issue) being 
written by the vice chairman, who 
was Brewster's roommate, or the in-
coming chairman. One of the 
Brewster regime's most notorious 
editorials, which was to be quoted 25 
years later in Time, asserted that 
college girls should not be entitled to 
wear slacks: ''The women of Welles-
ley, Smith, and Vassar should be de-
prived of their pants." As chairman, 
Brewster naturally received credit 
for the editorial, but he claims he 
never wrote it. Perhaps, he says, it 
was his roommate ... 

The News was autocratic by na-
ture: a particular chairman's edi-
torial policy, however objectionable, 
could not be overturned by his 
board. In times of violent disagree-
ment, dissenting editorials and dis-
claimers appeared iri addition to the 
regular editorials; the letters-and-
editorial page frequently became a 
great battlefield. Francis Donahue 
recalls several instance$ when 
Buckley came to him saying, "no ads 
on the editorial page, Francis, I have 
a lot of anti-Buckley stuff to run." 
Although Buckley later reminisced 
that it was sometimes only through 
the support of his fellow Irishman, 
Francis, that he was not handed a 
vote of no confidence by his board, 
the freedom and integrity of the 
chairman remained unimpaired. The 
editorial page was provocative and 
thoughtful; people read it-could 
not help but read it. 

Like Buckley three years before 
him, James Thomson made the most 
of his editorial freedom as chainnan. 
In the face of a solidly Eisenhower/ 
Republican Yale, he waged a full-
scale campaign for Adlai Stevenson 
in 1952. While Thomson plastered 
the chairman's office on the second 
floor of the News building with 
Stevenson posters, his business 
manager (and close friend) covered 
the first floor with Eisenhower para-
phernalia. On September 29, 1952, 
Thomson presented a full-page 
editorial entitled, "The Time, the 
Place, and the Man." It began: 

Two months and two days after the 
close of the national conventions, 
there can be little doubt in the mind 
of the independent voter: the Amer-
ican people have seldom in their his-
tory been offered the chance to vote 
for a presidential candidate more 
ideally qualified for the staggering 
responsibilities of the job and more 
keenly aware of the crucial issues of 
the time. 

That candidate is Adlai E. Steven-
son. 

An FDR Democrat since childhood, 
Thomson found it great fun to run 
the News through the heart of the 
McCarthy era, when he could vent a 
certain righteous indignation and ex-
perience the "special esprit one gets 
from being in the minority and being 
right." 

Despite Thomson's liberal gusto, 
his fight for Stevenson ("the incarna-
tion of Independent Man"), his de-
fense of academic freedom and his 
plea for clemency for the Rosenbergs 
(who were convicted of espionage 
and sentenced to death), he was 
still working under the old Yale. 
Heeling still meant one had to give 
up going to classes and doing any 
academic work for several weeks. To 
Thomson, being chairman meant ma-
~ J 
joring in the News: getting up 
during late morning; going over to 
George and Harry's for breakfast; 
picking up the mail; conferring with 
the business manager and managing 
editor; perhaps meeting with Presi-
dent Griswold or Dean DeVane in 
early afternoon; then working on the 
editorials; breaking at 7 p.m. for 
martinis and dinner at Fence Club; 
going back to the News to work until 
1:30 or 2 a.m., with perhaps another 
break for steak sandwiches and beer 
brought in by the heelers; then to the 
room for a little bedtime reading be-
fore going to sleep around 2 or 3 a.m. 
The News still exuded the myth of 
opening up the secrets of power in 
America, of an extraordinary in-
volvement in the world of grown-
ups-which was important to the stu-
dents of the '50's, who had endless 
Q 
"soul talks" (bull sessions) about 
why people kept camng them the si-
lent generation. There was still an at-
mosphere of tweedy people and 
white-shoe society. Election to a top 
editorial seat on the News still meant 
earning a handsome bit of money: 
the three top offices-chairman, 
managing editor, and business 
manager-took half the year's prof-
its, which usually amounted to about 
$2,000 each. (This would increase to 
about $3,000 during the economic 


--- Page 9 ---

! 
Volume seven, number threef March 25, 197~ 9 
boom of the mid-1960's, but would 
never match the huge sums earned 
during the 1920's and '30's, equiva-
lent today to salaries of about 
$10,000 to $12,000.) 

As G. Gaddis Smith (chairman, 
1954 and now master of Pierson 
College) put it: "We were the last 
classes of the 1920's, the last genera-
tion of students who acted the way 
their fathers did in college." 

3 
By the mid-1950's, however, the prep 
school tone of Yale slowly began to 
fade. When Calvin Trillin took over 
the chairmanship in 1956, Yale was 
still strongly entrenched in the old 
era, but in the midst of a transitional 
period; the freshmen who were to 
graduate with the Class of 1960. 
would reflect the mere tip of the mas-
sive social changes of the next de-
cade. For the moment, there was a 
cool, "preppy" feeling about the Col-
lege, even though there probably 
were more public than private school 
students attending Yale. Students 
were careful not to show overt ambi-
tion or too much enthusiasm-that 
was bad taste. 

Even through the non-coeducation 
years of the 1960's, the News re-
mained the strongest community at 
Yale, and the chairmanship was 
clearly the most important office on 
campus. Admittedly, the Newsies of 
the '50's would have been shocked to 
learn that members of the 1966 OCD 
board campaigned openly (again, 
bad taste) for the chairmanship for 
six weeks, meeting and eating lunch 
with fellow Newsies who had the 
power to vote. But as always, the 
News continued to take itself very 
seriously. To those involved with the 
paper, it seemed like the center of the 
Yale experience-a student govern-
ment, a media center, a social group 
and a power elite all rolled into one. 
Not only was there a certain headi-
ness one felt in belonging to the 
News, but a tremendous concern for 
craft. It seemed as though the sub-
limation which came out of the non-
coeducated community brought out 
an intense creativity, as well as the 
worst features of male competitive-
ness. 

Until the last chairman, Alan 
Boles, left office in 1968, the News 
maintained a strict heirarchy, with 
an environment of open. brutal com-
petition. People didn't climb to pow-
er over the backs of dead bodies, but 
even so, the politics of the climb took 
a heavy toll. The losers sometimes 
played by the "marbles rule": if you 
don't give me all the marbles, I'll 
take my marbles and go home." 
Others didn't: Doug Yates, who lost 
the chairmanship on the second bal-
lot in 1965, merely lost his taste for 
politics and pursued a career in aca-
demia instead. Elected vice chairman 
of the News, Yates became a Rhodes 
Scholar, worked several months as a 
London correspondent for Time, and 
then returned to Yale as an Assis-
. tant Professor of Political Science-
and watched his younger brother be-
come sports editor of a later News 
board. 

In spite of the growing student 
suspicion of consolidated, autocratic 
power, Newsies did not question the 
chairmanship, for students were still 
riding on a crest of self-importance-
a notion that they had a role to play 
for history-and it seemed worth-
while to have a strong leader to re-
flect that importance. At the same 
time, the News brand of journalism 
remained full of jokes and fun and 
camaraderie, memories that would 
remain vivid years after graduation. 
So at the end of the '60's, the News 
was still the best fraternity on a 
dwindling fraternity row. 

4 
And then came Mayday, 1970, the 
climax of several years of student 
activism, which swallowed the Col-
lege during three months of frenzy 
and rhetoric that seemed almost be-
yond belief in the face of today's 
Yale. The issue of the Panther and 
the Bulldog getting together created 
deep splits in the Yale community, 
and razed the highly hierarchical 
social structure of the college. A 
"higher" emotion-swept ideology 
blanketed the normally organization-
conscious Yale; once again, students 
in a piqued self-consciousness were 
confronting the great questions that 
their fathers had ignored. The prob-
lems, politics and prestige of the 
News were petty by comparison, 
almost ... laughable. And those who 
took the institutional status and 
autocratic discipline of the News 
seriously were more than floating 
anomalies; they were a clear and 
present danger to the revolution. 

The dazed OCD, unused to this 
severe second class citizenship in its 
own territory, began an intensive 
coverage of student strike activities. 
The managing editor, John Coots, 
gathered a staff of reporters, organ-
ized them in pairs, and sent them out 
with handfuls of dimes so that they 
could phone in developments in their 
areas every 15 minutes. Reporters 
were even stationed at the top of 
Kline Biology Tower, where, as one 
Newsie put it, viewing the strike 
activities was like watching "a foot-
ball game between the pigs and the 
freaks." 

Despite the emergence of a strike 
newsletter-an information and 
propaganda sheet created by "the 
people" of Yale-the News' coverage 
of Mayday spring was broad, 
brilliant in spots, and more accurate 
than a.ny other newspaper: like the 
News of the civil rights '60's, the 
modem OCD proved it could rise 
to the challenge. Nevertheless, the 
reportage of the News was objective 
at a time when objectivity was not 
considered "relevant." And its edi-
torial policy was hopelessly divided 
over the strike at a time when the 
Yale community pressured for soli-
darity. 

At one point, a group of strikers 
carrying flaming toilet paper rolls 
threatened to trash the News buil-
ding; but the real concern of the pa-
per was not a threat from the out-
side, but a collapse from the inside. 
A year before Mayday, the News 
board decided to abolish the vener-
ated position of chairman and estab-
lish a ruling order more in spirit with 
the growing current of radicalism: 
that is, six smaller boards (news, 
business, photo, administration, edi-
torial, and publications) which would 
operate as "communes" of power, 
with no one person in charge of each 
board. While the "commies," as 
Francis Donahue called them, ful-
filled the philosophical demands for a 
more democratic decision-making 
process, everyone knew that they did 
not work very well; the democracy 
was too ill-defined, and-like many 
Yale organizations-had too many 
leaders. 

A return of the chairmanship was 
out-at one time, the drive for the 
"King's" slot was the great lure for 
students, but now, most staffers 
felt that too many people worked too 
hard on the paper for there to be one 
individual who held all that power. 
So over the next three years, the 
News retained the commie system 
only in name, 'With each board con-
trolled by a particular editor who 
was not necessarily responsive to a 
communal decision-making process. 
The king was dead, and power was 
consolidated in the hands of feudal 
lords, but there was still the problem 
ofoverallindirection.The1971board 
produced a working structure that 
one Newsie called "The Flying 8 and 
The Fabulous 50," a handful of dedi-
cated individuals who did most of 
the day-to-day work with several 
dozen unreliable board members. 

Just before the election of the 1974 
board, the News decided to become a 
"features paper" as well as a news-
paper, thus establishing the posi-
tions of news managing editor and 
features managing editor, and 
changing the format of the paper 
from a New York Times front page 
to a tabloid style. Neither Bradley 
Graham, the 1974 news managing 
editor, nor Richard Fallon, the fea-
tures managing editor, had sover-
eignty; what resulted was a con-
tinual battle over jurisdictional 
rights, with such bitter resentments 
and disorganization that many 
Newsies felt there was once more a 
need for an overall guiding hand. 

Along with the crisis in power 
came a crisis in product; the daily 
newspaper contained poor reporting, 
sloppy editing, shabby layouts. Stu-
dents did not seem to care about be-
longing to the News, and developed 
an "ad hoc" attitude, doing an ar-
ticle or some hasty editing, and then 
leaving for some other pursuit. To 
aggravate matters, it suddenly ap-
peared that the News, always a guar-
anteed moneymaker, was in deep fi-
nancial trouble. After clearing pro-
fits of $17,000 in 1970 and $9,000 in 
1971, the paper unexpectedly found 
itself $3,000 in the red. Lucrative 
national advertising in the News 
plunged as big advertisers, like ciga-
ret companies, began looking for 
mass-circulation markets. Printing 
costs were increasing by 10 per cent 
each year. 

To add to its problems, the News 
found itself involved in a half-million 
dollar libel suit over an item that ap-
peared in one of its special publica-
tions, An Insider's Guide to the 
Colleges-a collection of pithy re-
views of many of the country's top 
academic institutions. The suit cen-
ters around an error made by 
Michael Spencer, the 1973 editorial 
page editor who also edited the 
fourth edition of the Insider's Guide 
(which appeared in the fall of 1972): 
"million-dollar-Mike," as he is now 
called, stated in a review of the 
University of the South (Sewanee, 
Tenn.) that two Black students had 
been killed during a student disorder 
there. (The note should have been ap-
peared instead under the review of 
Southern University.) 

The University of the South dis-
covered the mistake while the guide 
was in the midst of distribution, and 
telephoned the News to demand that 
the books be removed from circula-
tion and that the newspaper issue a 
public apology to the University of 
the South in The New York Times. 
Taken aback, the News called its 
New York publisher, who instructed 
them to insert an errata sheet in each 
guide to correct the situation. The 
News did so, and assumed that the 
matter was closed -only to be in-
formed of the suit four months later. 
The University of the South felt 
that the errata sheet was "totally 
insufficient to correct the problem," 
according to the university's vice 
chancellor, J. Jefferson Bennett. The 
sheet simply contained a reprint of 
the original review, omitting the 
erroneous lines, but did not inform 
the reader of the exact nature of the 
error. The university, a small Epis-
copal school which takes its ties to 
the Oxford tradition very seriously 
(indeed, faculty and students are re-
(contillued on pagel3)



**Title: The Case of the Personal Documentary**
**Author: Dan Denton**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The networks say that controversy on commercial television is dangerous. It can offend potential sponsors. It can provoke both legal battles and, under current FCC guidelines, demands for rebuttal time. As a result, controversy is rarely sought and never bought from outside sources. One of the more controversial recent documentaries was "A Question of Torture," an expose of the tiger-cage torturing of political prisoners in Saigon jails. Though produced by a prize-winning crew for Granada Television in England, the film was turned down by all major American networks. 

Leonard explained that CBS refuses to buy these independently produced documentaries for the same reason it taboos in-house personal documentaries-CBS must be responsible for the film's objectivity. He admitted, though, that he has no way of knowing if every foot of film is, in fact, "objective"-even when CBS produces the film. He must trust his filmmakers to be fair. 

The networks do have the power, though, to make any film seem objective. They wrap all the subjectivity into a slick news documentary that bears the stamp of the network. The film speaks with the same deceptive authority as does the man behind the curtain in The Wizard of Oz. 

The stamp of objectivity in network documentaries cuts the documentary genre off from its openly subjective roots. Robert Flaherty, one of the first American documentary filmmakers, believed that the most honest cinematic portrayal required manipulation of his subject matter. He built his films around consciously imposed romantic themes like man's struggle for survival in the cold north or on a tropical island. To document what he felt to be the truth about the Eskimo lifestyle in "Nanook of the North," he employed fictional techniques like scripting and staging. 

Flaherty used forms of distortion to translate a personal, subjective experience into cinematic reality. 

But subjective realities are not in the stock of network truths. "The rationale behind personal films, like Flaherty's in the thirties," said Al Wasserman, "is a rationale the networks have never accepted. Sure, every network filmmaker would like to do personal documentaries, but they're extremely difficult to get money for. The networks go for the big-money, big-issue films that make the definitive statement." 

To date, the only nationwide television market for personal documentaries has been PBS, the non-commercial network. Because it makes no claims to any "definitive statement," PBS can air clearly biased documentaries -like the Black militant film, "Black Journal." Since it recognizes the subjectivity of film, it has become the only forum for documentaries like Frederick Wiseman's. 

Wiseman, a Harvard Law School graduate, gave up his Cambridge law practice after he bought his first movie camera. He has been making documentaries ever since, and hiring other lawyers to defend them. 

Wiseman's films explore the power structures behind such American institutions as a hospital, a police station, a boot camp, a juvenile court and an asylum for the criminally insane. He uses no music and no narration. "Narrative in documentaries always sounds condescending to me," says Wiseman, "as if someone is trying to tell me what to think. 

"I work under the assumption," he says, "that if you just watch people in meaningful interactions you can see truths more illuminating than any narrative can give you." 

The truth he attempts to convey in his films is not in the form of a rational argument. It is something more complex and subtle, depicting the quality of his personal experience in making the film. He does no research before beginning his work. Themes begin to unfold only as he shoots and reacts to the scene. 

When his reactions are settled, Wiseman retreats to his editing room to recreate his experience. 

"Editing is a purely subjective process," he believes. "This thing of objectivity is a lot of crap, as anyone with average intelligence and twenty seconds to think about it knows. The issue is fairness. I use subjective techniques to make a personal documentary statement that is fair to my subjective experience in making the film.'' 

But because Wiseman's statement is visual instead of verbal, it is rich in a way that reportage films can never be. "I have a mind that resists any kind of absolute clarity," he says. As a result, he offers no argument that can be accepted or rejected apart from the film. His statement is the film itself. You can watch it more than once, and each time learn more of Wiseman's vision, and find fresh images to build your own. 

Wiseman's films will not be found on commercial television. He has made several unsuccessful attempts to convince commercial networks to air his films, and the failure makes him cynical. 

"It's a total waste of time to argue with the networks," he says. "They always want to cut and censor-and if my film is going to be changed like that, then it's no longer my statement and should not exist. I don't believe in participatory democracy filmmaking. Sure, the networks have their argument, but they just don't test the limits of it-they hate to take a chance on films like mine." 

When artists like Wiseman forsake the battle for commercial airtime, the fight for subjective and cinematic documentaries is left to tired critics and a few unhappy filmmakers. As the Poynter symposium illustrated, the debate is at an impasse damaging to both sides. 

The personal documentary is a form that now attracts the most innovative filmmakers, and one which-regardless of commercial television-will mature. Technological improvements, like less cumbersome and obtrusive equipment, have already made the personal documentary an accessible creative form. 

Because these films require only a cameraman and a director, the large network crews of the past are unnecessary. As a result, both local stations and private filmmakers can now produce documentaries. And innovations in transmission-video-tape cartridge systems or the long awaited cable television-will eventually provide a non-commercial forum for these films. 

But the commercial networks can grow along with the documentary. This would mean abandoning the pretense of objectivity, and freeing film from mere reporting. It would mean believing that the proper truth to broadcast is the sum, and not the lowest common denominator, of many subjective truths, and that the networks are forums for truths rather than arbiters of Truth. 

But more importantly, it would mean admitting the subjectivity of film and unmasking the artist who makes -and is-the documentary. 0 
Dan Denton, an English major in Berkeley College, is in the reel of The Yale Exper-


<br>

**Title: Flying the black flag of himself: A Review of Ted Hughes' poetry**
**Author: John Romano**
**Page number(s): 12**

Ted Hughes' reputation is only to a small extent a product of the three volumes from which the poems in Selected Poems were chosen: The Hawk in the Rain (1957), Lupercal (1960), and Wodwo (1967). Rather, it is based primarily upon his fourth book, Crow, which was published in this country with enormous impact in 1971. It was perhaps the most widely discussed new book of poetry to appear in England or America since the posthumous appearance of Sylvia Plath's book, Ariel (1966). It has been held in such esteem that, especially among writers of poetry, no poet is more frequently named as the most considerable contemporary talent. 

This judgment is a controversial one at a moment when Lowell and Merwin and Ammons are alive and busy, especially in circles where the taste for poetry is all but dominated by an admiration for the later Stevens. The judgment is not my own, but Hughes' prominence should not surprise us, for all that. Crow does offer much of what readers of recent poetry have been particularly starved for: a direct address to the senses, an impression of sheer power unhampered by self-consciousness-a left to the body under a clear blue sky, or is it a black sky? Consider the hairiness: 

Flogged lame with legs 
Shot through the head with balled brains 
Shot blind with eyes 
Nailed down by his own ribs 
Strangled just short of his last gasp 
By his own windpipe 
Clubbed unconscious by his own heart 
Dragged under by the weight of his guts 
("A Kill") 

Even when the vision repels, the voice is irresistible: 

Crow saw the herded mountains, steaming in the morning. 
And he saw the sea 
Dark-spined, with the whole earth in its coils. 
He saw the stars, fuming away into the black, 
mushrooms of the nothing forest, clouding 
their spores, the virus of God. 
And he shivered with the horror of Creation. 
("Crow Alights") 

Perhaps inevitably, the lucidity is misleading. It is secretly tenebrous, if openly ironic: 

God tried to teach Crow how to talk. 
" Love," said God. "Say, Love." 
Crow gaped, and the white shark crashed into the sea 
. 
And went rolling downwards, discovering its own depth. 
"No, no," said God, "Say, Love. Now try it. LOVE." 
Crow gaped, and a bluefly, a tsetse, a mosquito 
Zoomed out and down 
To their sundry flesh-pots. 
("Crow's First Lesson") 

It ls also man-hating and God-hating: 

Crow laughed. 
He bit the Worm, God's only son, 
Into two writhing halves. 
He stuffed into man the tail half 
With the wounded end hanging out. 
("A Childish Prank") 

and crisply woman-hating: 

He lifts a chair-fear lifts him-
He smashes the egg-shell object to a blood-rag, 
A limping sprawl, he tramples the bubbling mess. 
The shark-face is screaming in the doorway 
Opening its fangs. 
("Crow's Account of St. George") 

Along with the, er, refreshing qualities of the voice, Crow offers some of the interest of narrative, characters and events, next to which the "confessional" poet's divulgences pall. Like Zarathustra, a palpable influence, or like Clint Eastwood, whom he resembles in a different way, the waggish, implacably violent anti-hero of the poems has undeniable, if ghastly, charisma. What he evokes is rooted in the most appalling recesses of our being, and if it isn't entirely pleasant it is nonetheless instructive. Though I hesitate to use the term "authenticity," I think it is to some extent true that we read ourselves when reading Crow, and there is merit in that. But this acquainting of the self with the self sharply restricts the matters Hughes can put before us. For Crow, as for Zarathustra, philosophy and style are one; when we have once heard the cry of Crow, and its echo within us, we know all he can teach us. 

This is perhaps a reflection of Hughes' inestimable debt to D.H. Lawrence, and if so it is not an entirely flattering reflection; his is an art that instructs through the blood, but that which the blood can know seems, at times, remarkably limited: 

Who owns these questionable brains? Death. 
All this messy blood? Death. 
These minimum-efficiency eyes? Death. 
This wicked little tongue? Death. 
This occasional wakefulness? Death. 
Who owns the whole rainy, stony earth? Death. 
Who owns all of space? Death. 
("Examination at the Womb-Door") 

So far I have been guilty of confusing the voice of Crow with that of the poet, where the school-trained sense of a reader of poetry will tell him that the meaning of Crow may only be adjudged by a scrupulous calibration of the distance between the two. But perhaps A. Alvarez is right that very few of our prepared approaches to poetry will be of avail in confronting Hughes' "Extremist" work, though he errs in thinking it the finest thing in the world. Such a sweeping view of the iconoclasm of the volume may well explain my sense that the poet-narrator is himself a casualty of Crow's aggressive nihilism. Not that Hughes is Crow himself, but rather that the distance between Hughes and Crow cannot be measured within the poems at all. 

The implications of such a thought remind me of a lecture delivered in 1968 by Charles Tomlinson, another British poet. His topic was British poetry 



**An Otter: A Poem and its Interpretations**
**Author: Ted Hughes (as discussed by Charles Tomlinson)**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Brings the legend of himself 
From before wars or burials, in spite of hounds 
and vermin-poles; 
Does not take root like the badger. Wanders, 
cries: 
Gallops alot;1g land he no longer belongs to; 
Re-enters the water by melting. 
He keeps fat in the limpid integument 
Reflections live on. The heart beats thick, 
Big trout muscle out of the dead cold; 
Blood is the belly of logic; he will lick 
The fish bone bare. And can take stolen hold 
On a bitch otter in a field full 
Of nervous horses ... 
Although Tomlinson's own very fine poetry exhibits a sensibility very different from Hughes', he 
was painfully fair to the purpose and achievement 
of the poem. And yet my clearest recollection is of 
two remarks which he appended almost casually 
to his reading. The first was that Hughes had 
learned a great deal from Lawrence, an observation that has permanently conditioned my re-
spo~sf' to the poems. The second observation had 
reference to the poem's delight in a certain order of 
feelmg, in the blood belly of logic, a relish that is 
almost audible in the lip-smacking of "He will 
lick/The fish bone bare." Tomlinson said that 
there was much in ' 'An Otter" of the sensibility 
that led to the building of the concentration 
camps. As a reaction to "Otter" this is surely an 
exaggeration; in light of Crow, I am inclined to 
agree. 
Although Selected Poems is ultimately a less interesting book than Crow, less original and 
achieved as poetry than the later work, it is the 
more humane volume of the two. From among 
several directions implicit as possibilities in his 
earlier work, Hughes progressively inclines to the 
dark and chilly path Tomlinson has all too accurately described. If Crow is anticipated in 
poems as early as "The Jaguar" , "Hawk 
Roosting" , and "Esther's Tomcat", unfulfilled 
promises are held out in "The Horses", in "Bull 
Moses", and especially in "Skylarks" (a longer 
poem from Wodwo (where, indeed, the promise is 
partially fulfilled. With its wierd echoes of 
Stevens and its strangely lyrical tone, "Skylarks" 
is ultimately uneven; mannered in some parts 
("Sing/ Obediant as to death a 1deadthing"), it is 
passionately and totally realized in others. Its 
importance, however, is that in it Hughes 
achieves a bala.nce he rarely reaches in Selected 
Poems, and has plainly chosen not to achieve 
again. It is a mixed singing, a vision of undeluded 
hope and sympathetic despair: 
0 song, incomprehensibly both ways-
Joy! Help! Joy! Help! 
Olark


<br/>

**A Death in the Old Family**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

(continued from page 9) 
quired to observe the Oxford gown-
ing tradition and wear their academ-
ic gowns·to classes and all official 
university functions), is particularly 
sensitive to the News' error, says 
Bennett, because it was the first 
private university in the South to 
voluntarily integrate its student 
body. So the university sued, and 
the News was put in the unhappy 
position of having to defend itself 
through the New York firm of Baker, 
Nelson & Williams. The suit could 
drag on for years. 

When the tired and frustrated 
1974 board members met las t fall 
to" choose their successors, it was 
clear that the once glorious Yale 
Daily News, "the old lady on York 
Street,'' needed a slug of Geritol. 
The OCD was in dire need of a 
thorough financial restructuring if 
they were to survive the financial 
stringencies of the sour '70's. But 
this already had begun through the 
efforts of a new business director, 
Matthew Coles (editorial page editor, 
1973), who assumed the brunt of 
Donahue's work last fall. Although 
Cole's Irish wit undoubtedly will not 
remain around the News as long as 
that of Francis Donahue, Coles has 
already begun to leave a distinctive 
mark on the organization. For tax 
advantages, he changed the News 
from a partnership arrangement to a 
non-profit corporation, eliminating-
at least for the immediate future-
the opportunity to earn big money 
on the News. (The News is the last 
Ivy League paper to do so.) He 
established a classified ads section, 
formalized office records which had 
been kept only in Donahue's head, 
and spearheaded a number of new 
OCD special projects, like the 
News!WYBC guide to rock music 
scheduled to appear in May. Special 
projects have traditionally made the 
most money for the News. 

In addition to Matt Coles, the 
News needed something it had 
missed for four years-a leader. Not 
a chairman who could snap his 
fingers and yell "Heeler!" for instant 
service, but an editor-in-chief who 
could integrate the various depart-
ments, rebuild the spirit and sense of 
craft in the paper. For that role, they 
elected Eli Spielman, a sports writer 
who had written only one news 
article prior to his election, but who 
has a quiet sense of vision, and a de-
sire to leave his stamp on the News. 

Today, Spielman must contend 
with a complex and diffuse mood on 
campus that seems to prevent any of 
Yale's formerly prominent extra-
curricular activities from assuming 
their lost status. Part of the demise 
of Yale's institutions arises from a 
renaissance of individtlalism, a flour-
ishin~ of small group activities and 
burgeoning of opportunities for more 
personal and less conventional ex-
pressions of achievement. In our 
bleaker moods, we have termed this 
grim professionalism, a narcissistic 
thrust, a desperate need for private 
time and private space and personal 
comfort- we cannot pin it down, but 
this is the drift, the flavor of what is 
around us. 

All this seems true in part, for 
many of us, punished by the '60's or 
having felt the punishment received 
by our older brothers and sisters, 
have withdrawn to private modes of 
established success, without feeling 
any internal struggle. Somehow, 
inexplicably, the movement got de-
railed, and we are waiting to see 
what happened ... 

But this is merely the surface 
phenomenon, and somehow, it smells 
of the need for explanation to the 
older generations. Grim professional-
ism has been progressing since 
World War II, with the flowering of 
corporations and the dramatized 
need for expert manpower; it is not a 
foreign trend. Besides, students, as 
individuals, respond to what is ex-
citing and good - adjectives most 
Yale activities have failed to inspire 
during periods of mass movements. 

If Eli Spielman can prove that the 
News is worth writing for again, 
grim professionalism will become 
known as sense of craft once more, 
and students will be back at 202 
York Street. 

And it appears as if Spielman has 
the energy and the perspective to 
meet the task. He works at the 
News until exhausted, but it is clear 
to him that he is happiest while 
working in journalism; academic 
courses remain a hobby and a 
luxury. He understands the needs of 
internal structure and discipline, but 
sees himself as a teacher, sensing the 
old undergraduate tradition of learn-
ing from one's peers, offering and inheriting a rich mode of thought, 
responses, and attitudes from one 
class to another. He recognizes the 
creative impulse that has spawned 
the Yale Daily News Magazine and 
the ability of the magazine and the 
daily paper to work in peaceful co-
existence-a cross-fertilization of 
interests- borrowing from each 
other's strengths rather than resent-
ing each other's limitations. He is 
concerned with News reporting as an 
expression of the thick and subtle 
issues on campus as well as a means 
for providing a service to Yale. 

All the dedication of Matt Coles 
and his band of Newsies will not 
bring back the old News: that exper-
ience has died, like the commie 
News. But the 1975 News may mark 
the beginning of a new era of good 
news-and when all else has passed, 
that is something worth saving for 
Francis Donahue's grandchildren.O



**In heat in England**
**Author: Dave Sleeper**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Universjty of Kent, Canterbury, 
England-All the friends who write 
from America seem terrifically con-
cerned about my health. Everyone 
wants to know how I manage to keep 
from dying without heat and 
electricity. 

Of course, I write back perpetuat-
ing the myth. Americans become 
disillusioned and alienated when 
they discover t hat the omnipotent 
newsmagazine gods have been lying 
to them. Editors and journalists 
are among the chosen few who can 
still convince people that life has 
order , so who am I to explode an-
other man's religion? I report that 
icicles hang from my radiator, ink 
freezes in my ball-point pen if I let 
it sit too long, I 'm going blind from 
reading by candlelight, 20 percent of 
the university has died of consump-
tion since January, and if the ice 
doesn't break soon we'll be driven to 
devouring the tawny flesh of our 
beloved mates. 

I can't wait until I have children 
and am able to impress them by tell-
ing them how I lived through the 
British Depression in the winter of 
1974. My imagination suggests hun-
dreds of Paul Bunyan stories as I sit 
here in my cozy, centrally-heated 
room with 500 watts of light glaring 
and my component system shaking 
the walls. 

There have been a few power cuts, 
but they lasted only a few hours be-
fore life-giving electricity was re-
stored. During one of them I was 
forced to leave a lecture, sacrificing 
the dubious pleasure of hearing a re-
cording of T.S. Eliot reading his 
poetry. (The genius could write, but 
he sure couldn't read very well.) And 
during a late-night cut everybody in 
the college wandered through the 
corridors seeking someone suitably 
warm to sleep with. 

More than anything else, the 
energy crisis has supplied us with 
material for endless hours of mind-
bending polemic discussion over 
pints of lager in college bars. Every 
Marxist on campus is eager to coat-
tail passersby to deliver a reasoned 
explanation of how Marx predicted 
thjs energy crisis 100 years ago and 
it is only through collective action 
now that the world can be saved. 

Meanwhile, every natural scientist in 
Great Britain is trying desperately 
to convince the authorities that his 
particular research is part of the new 
wave of "alternate technology" and 
will solve the nation's energy 
problems. 

Perhaps, as a member of an institu-
tionalized living complex complete 
with cleaners, cafeterias and social 
committees, I've been shielded from 
the brunt of the crisis. "People in the 
North are heating their sitting rooms 
with coal and sleeping with hot water 
bottles," an activist first-year co-ed 
revealed to me. "People in the North 
have always heated their sitting 
rooms with coal and slept with hot 
water bottles," I revealed to her. 

So where's the crisis? 

True, industry was on a three-day 
week. But no one is feeling the ef-
fects just yet. "It will take a few 
months," the experts tell us. But 



**In heat in England (continued)**
**Page number(s): 15**

Paul Erlich, champion as he is at in· 
stilling fear and panic into the 
masses, told us we would be walking 
on each other by 1975, too. Experts 
get paid for pulling panic levers, but 
ordinary people don't get paid for 
much of anything. (Not even for 
crawling through coal-infested tun· 
nels 12 hours a day.) So the British 
public strolls leisurely along, vague-
ly curious, waiting for the next new 
shortage and hoping someday they'll 
run out of politicians. 

The most irritating problem the 
average consumer faces in his day-to· 
day life is shops without lights. 
There exists somewhere in the laby· 
rinth of recent British " period of 
crisis" documents an elaborate 
series of lighting regulations. If you 
sell books you are under different 
regulations than if you sell food. 
Some shops have electricity three 
days a week, some four, and some 
even five days a week, but not during 
dinner or tea. I suspect the police 
here in Canterbury aren't even sure 
what the rules are, but at the begin· 
ning of January they slapped a 
couple of heavy fines on shops that 
could afford them. So now most 
shops do without lights. Instead, 
they post large placards reading, 
"We may not look like it, but we're 
open for business." 

Two days each week this university 
is under a "50 percent power regula-
tion." This means that on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays a little man with a 
ladder marches through the offices 
and corridors taking bulbs out of 
every other light socket. One won· 
ders if what they pay this man to do 
his job doesn't cost more than the 
electricity they save. 

And during the.first week of Feb· 
ruary the student's union occupied a 
building to protest the expulsion of a 
student. In the evenings the student 
marshalls patrolled the halls crying, 
"Switch off all lights. It is illegal to 
switch on any lights." I kept wonder· 
ing if it wasn't illegal to occupy the 
building, but I suppose everybody 
has to set his values somewhere. 

Imaginative commercial enter· 
prises have added their own twist to 
the crisis, turning it to profit as 
usual. An advertisement for "The 
Fuel-Crisis Motorist's Guide to See-
ing Europe" regularly nms in the 
newspapers. The aver,.ge British 
homeowner is encouraged to buy 
more insulation for his house because 
10,000 of the 20,()()()..odd kilowatt 
hours of electricity he uses to heat 
his house escape between the chinks 
in the walls. You can even buy a 
windmill for less than 200 pounds 
(450 dollars). 

A local gas board ran a contest in 
January asking participants to sug· 
gest ways of conserving energy. The 
winner was a lady who suggested 
that husbands and wives, lovers and 
anyone else so inclined take baths to· 
gether to save both water and heat. 
Well, the myth of the stiff and moral 
Britisher got a boost from the reac· 
tion around the country. Letters 
poured in to the newspapers declar· 
ing bathing together to be one of the 
Seven Deadly Sins. The House of 
Lords condemned the practice as im· 
moral, and someone reportedly over· 
heard the Queen remark, "We are 
not amused." 

In fact, Royalty has been right up 
on the front lines of the energy bat· 
tle, fighting with tooth and claw. 
When Princess Anne inspected pro· 
gress on her 20,000 pound (45,000 
dollar) five-bedroom house she was 
careful never to have on more than 
one light at a time. However, the 
price the country paid for her wed· 
ding could probably have paid for 
enough heat to warm the country 
through the winter of 1980, with 
enough left over to make a down· 
payment on the sun. 

Admittedly, the situation here in 
England will get worse. The miners' 
decision to call a national strike 
sparked a new battle in their continu· 
ing war with a Government deter-
mined to preserve the wealth and pri· 
vileges of the rich (under the pre-
tense of "the fight against infla· 
tion"). The effects of that battle will 
no doubt include more frequent and 
longer power cuts, which, for the mo-
ment at least, will mean less work for 
the British citizen, more drinking to 
keep warm, and much more sleeping 
and bathing together. 

But there will always be an 
England.O



**Curt Peoples**

The peripatetic Mr. Peoples, who 
earned a degree in English from Ohio 
University, has been known to 
"bathe around."



A&A COFFEE SHOP 
Monday- Friday: 9 am to 4 pm 

LORD'S CAFETERIA 
IN COMMONS 
Monday- Friday 11 :45 a.m. to 1 :30 p.m. 

KUNEBIOLOGYTOWER 
Monday - Friday: 9amto2pm 
Continental breakfast: 9 - 11 
Lunch: 11 :30- 1:30 
Light lunch: 1:30- 2 

CAFE IN COMMONS 
Sunday- Thursday: 8:30pm to 1 am 

DURFEE SWEET SHOP 
M onday- Friday Noon to4 pm 
7:30pm to 1 am 
Saturday & Sunday: 7:30pm to 1 am 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
t l 
r-,} 
I{ 
f 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
represents one of the largest .,d finest trans· 
shipment facilities in southern New England 
today. It coorcfinates full transfer and trucking 
operations induding: (a) modern pier berths 
(b) stevedoring for all types of cargo, (c) ship's 
agent service, (d) warehouse and o~n. storage, 
(e) export and import handling, and (f) a uni· 
fied trucking service throughout southern New 
England. 

Today the Terminal maintains three major berths 
.tfording 35' M'L 'W' at a 650' pier and a quay 
with shipside rail. With these facilities. and with 
New Haven Harbor's 35' deep water channel, the 
largest freighters and tankers of normal draft in 
&ae today can be accomodated. 

The Terminal's many acres of open storage, and mil· 
lion cubic feet of (dry pipe protected) warehouse 
space are served by spurs which connect directly 
with the P.nn Central main line to Boston and 
New Yortt, Hartford-Springfield-Worcester line, 
etc. Motor line connections and trucks benefit from 
the new Connecticut Turnpike. (New England 
Thruway or Interstate 95) Exit 49 of which is less 
than 500 yards away. and which leads almost im· 
media1ely to ln•rstate Route 91 . 



Yale's 
Garry Trudeau 
speaks to us all. 
111111111 
C\i-0 
THE YALE CO-OP 
77 Broadway, New Hoven 
STORE HOURS 
Daily 9 :15-5:30. Thurs da ys Until 91 
3D waterfront street 
... 

