Publication date: May 11, 1969
Volume: two
Issue number: eleven


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Jonathan Lear
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Managing Editor: Lawrence Lasker
- Business Manager: Steve Thomas
- Art Director: Nita Kalish
- Associate Editor: Paul Goldberger
- Advertising Manager: K. Elia Georgiades
- Copy Editors: Nancy Vickers, Craig Slutzker
- Photography Editor: Robert Randolph
- Circulation Manager: John Adams
- Contributing Editors: Michael Lerner, Bruce Mcintosh, David Meter, Leo Ribuffo
- Publisher: Peter Yaeger
- Staff: Tom Abell, Richard Caples, Leo Draper, Mark Fishman, James Hinson, Stuart Klawans, Manuel Perez, Michael David Rose, Deborah Rubin, Scott Simpson, Joel Skidmore, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Buckminster Fuller takes a look at the world. - Lawrence Lasker
- Clement Markert takes another look. - David Meter
- Ed Logue takes yet another. - Susan Braudy
- Douglas Hallett responds to last issue's article on the Yale Summer High School. 
- Paul Goldberger, who wrote the article, replies. 
- Letters To the Editors:


**Title: Letters To the Editors:**
**Author:  (Anonymous)**
**Page number(s): 2-3, 11**

I have read with considerable interest the 
column by Jonathan Lear on the Yale 
Daily News and the article by Paul Gold-
berger on Lawrence Paros and the Sum-
mer High School in your April 27 issue. 
In view of your magazine's well deserved 
reputation for sound and reliable re-
porting, I find the articles and the pos-
sible results of their being taken seriously 
very disturbing. Speaking entirely as an 
individual, and not for the News or Mr. 
Paros, I would, therefore, I ike to respond 
to your contentions. 

According to Mr. Goldberger, "The 
combination of YSHS's financial woes and 
its educational crisis was the real reason 
for Yale's decision to discharge Paros." 
To prove Mr. Paros's alleged financial in-
competence, Mr. Goldberger cites nobody. 
To prove his thesis of an "educational 
crisis," he relies on the alleged views of 
three teachers in the Summer High School. 
According to Mr. Lear, "three months" 
of research went into Mr. Goldberger's 
article. It seems to me that if in this time 
Mr. Goldberger could find no more sub-
stantiated evidence to support his charges 
than the views of those three teachers and 
his own intuition, The New Journal owes 
Mr. Paros an apology for printing those 
assertions. 

In analyzing the educational crisis, Mr. 
Goldberger cites only three teachers; he 
also never explains what his criteria for 
evaluation are. By the traditional criteria 
of college admissions Mr. ParQs was 
more sucessful than his predecessor, Joel 
Fleishman, now Associate Provost for 
Urban Affairs. Of course, the whole point 
of Mr. Paros's program was to question 
traditional criteria, but this does not entitle 
Mr. Goldberger to develop his own un-
named ones. Certainly, he should have 
looked to educational authorites, both 
within and outside the program, and to a 
broader sampling of teachers and students. 
If he had, he would have found that the 
vast majority of Summer High School 
students, faculty and observers support 
Mr. Paros's work. 

There are thirty-seven former students 
and faculty of the Summer High §chool 
in the New Haven area, twelve at Yale. Yet 
Mr. Goldberger is only able-to quote four, 
one of whom, Mr. Frank, has informed 
me that he has been quoted out of context 
without his permission, and that the 
quotation used does not reflect his opinion 
of the program. Mr. Hildebidle and Mr. 
Ciochetto, Mr. Goldberger's other two 
references, were Mr. Paros's most vehe-
ment critics within the program; the 
criticisms of Mr. Hildebidle are contained 
in a document he himself terms a per-
sonal polemic. The vast majority of 
students and faculty to whom I have 
spoken and whose letters to Mr. Paros I 
have read praise Mr. Paros's work. It 
seems to me that Mr. Goldberger has an 
obligation to consider their views with 
more than just a short quotation from 
one girl. 

Only two outside observers spent any 
length of time at the Summer High School 
-Edgar Friedenberg, one of the nation's 
leading educational theorists and a man 
whose praise of YSHS you quoted several 
issues ago, and Edgar Beckham, of 
Wesleyan University. After several days 
of intensive interviews and analysis, these 
men had high praise for both the con-
ceptualization and the management of the 
program. Mr. Friedenberg has called the 
1968 Summer High School "the hope for 
America." Mr. Beckham has praise for 
not only the theoretical design of the 
program, as Mr. Goldberger noted, but 
also for its management, which Mr. Gold-
berger did not note and which runs 
counter to his argument. He wrote: 
The thing that struck me most about the Yale 
Summer High School was the thoughtfulness 
and depth of the theoretical design .... The 
inteUectual implications of the core course 
had been worked out in great detail, and even 
the behavior of students had been anticipated, 
interpreted, and worked into a conceptual 
framework. In short, I thought the program 
was extremely well conceived. [end of Tile 
New Journal quote] 

It seemed to me that the social problems 
which confronted the program were handled 
skillfully. You [Mr. Paros] had quite a volatile 
mix of students on your hands, but their en-
ergies were channeled productively. 1 was 
also impressed by the effect of the shift in the 
recruitment procedures. It was clear that the 
Upward Bound kids, who were new to the 
program, were more aggressively bright and 
displayed more inteUectual energy than the 
students who were returning to YSHS fot a 
second summer. 

Even if Mr. Goldberger feels that Mr. 
Paros could not deal, in academics and 
in discipline, with the type of alienated 
student recruited for the program, and 
perhaps that the Summer High School 
shouldn't have tried to do so, it seems to 
me that he has an obligation to note that 
the only two outside professional edu-
cators who examined the program sup-
port Mr. Paros on both counts. Instead, 
he ignores Mr. Friedenberg's views com-
pletely and includes only those aspects of 
Mr. Beckham's opinions which do not run 
counter to his argument. Nor does Mr. 
Goldberger ever consider the views of 
Dr. Lawrence Gould and Dr. Edward 
Klein, the Summer High School's research 
consultants, who have evaluated the pro-
gram since its inception. 

Mr. Goldberger uses a quotation from 
Mr. Ciochetto to imply that Jonathan 
Hall tricked certain faculty members into 
signing a statement endorsing Mr. Paros. 
Whether or not the statement endorses 
Mr. Paros personally is open to question; 
my own reading is that it only asks for an 
explanation of Mr. Paros's dismissal and 
criticizes the style of thinking reflected in 
the Singer Report. In either case, however, 
it is irrefutable that Mr. Hall read the full 
statement to Mr. Ciochetto before he 
signed it. If Mr. Ciochetto now believes 
that the statement constitutes a personal 
endorsement of Mr. Paros, it is only be-
cause he now interprets the statement 
differently than he did when he signed it, 
not because he was tricked. Mr. Gold-
berger writes: 
Traditionally, the anthology [of faculty 
evaluations) is distributed to the Administra-
tive Board of the Summer High School and 
becomes an important factor in the review 
of the year; this time, however, Paros with-
held copies of the critical report. Members of 
the Board and staff writers of the Yale Daily 
News, who thought they were getting the 
"full story" were never even made aware 
of its existence. 

In point of fact, the anthology is prepared 
for internal staff use and has never before 
been distributed for general use or given 
to the Board. But my own experience is 
that Mr. Paros is quite willing to let any-
one sec it once they understand its nature. 
Mr. Goldberger himself was offered a 
copy. Contrary to what he reports, I too 
was aware of it and have read it. 

The anthology is "critical," but not in 
the negative sense Mr. Goldberger im-
plies. The anthology is designed to assist 
the staff in the planning for the following 
year; understandably, those who have no 
criticisms are less likely to write evalu-
tions. One-third did not last year. Those 
who did wrote evaluations which I would 
describe as "mixed"-not too surprising 
considering the experimental nature of the 
program. But the views expressed in the 
anthology right after the summer do not 
necessarily constitute views held perma-
nently. Teacher Jim Elston recently wrote 
Mr. Paros: 
During the summer I felt that I had a fairly 
good understanding of what was going on. 
Recent reflections and insight have shown 
me that I was merely at one level of under-
standing and there are many above it of 
which I was unaware. 

With this in mind I cannot understand 
how Mr. Goldberger, knowing the nature 
of the anthology, could base his entire 
opinion of the program on the views of 
Mr. Paros's two most vehement critics as 
expressed in that anthology. Certainly he 
has an obligation to consider the views of 
Mr. Friedenberg, Mr. Beckham and the 
majority of the Summer High School 
students and faculty who support Mr. 
Paros's work. 

Mr. Goldberger's financial analysis 
appears to be based largely on a memo-
randum prepared by Jonathan Fanton, 
University Consultant for Special Educa-
tion Programs. Nowhere does he quote or 
consider the views of Francis Nicoll, 
Dir.ector of the Office of Gifts and Grants, 
who keeps the Summer High School 
books. Of course, he also does not quote 
Mr. Fanton. Having compared the YSHS 
budget with Mr. Fanton's memorandum, 
I can well understand why Mr. Fanton 
did not allow himself to be quoted-his 
memorandum, blaming the YSHS deficit 
on Mr. Paros, is a total distortion of the 
true facts of the matter. At the very least, 
Mr. Fleishman, who was responsible for 
supervising and approving Mr. Paros's 
budget as his immediate superior, shares 
joint responsibility for any mismanage-
ment. It should be noted that Mr. Fleish-
man never made clear what Mr. Paros's 
fund-raising responsibilities were and 
never questioned his budget. Mr. Paros 
understandably modeled his budget on 
Mr. Fleishman's for the previous year; 
the Comptroller's Office statements which 
Mr. Paros allegedly didn't read revealed 
that overhead charges, half by design and 
half through a clerical error in the Office 
of Gifts and Grants, were waived on that 
budget, and accordingly Mr. Paros waived 
overhead charges on his. Mr. Paros's 
budget, with no overhead charges, went 
continued on page 11 



**Title: When Buckminster Fuller looks at the world, he sees the universe.**
**Author: Lawrence Lasker**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

There wasn't much fanfare when Buck-
minster Fuller came to Yale last February. 
In fact, if you weren't paying close atten-
tion to the posters tacked up around the 
campus, it would have been quite easy not 
to know that he came at all. He gave one 
public, four-hour rap in the Law School 
Auditorium in the afternoon and then 
seemed to disappear along with his ideas. 
Where he took them, though, was down 
the street to the Art and Architecture 
Building to begin a series of classes that 
would leave a few students mildly bored, 
would afford others with some good things 
to think about and, for the few who were 
ready to really get into what Fuller was 
saying, would change their lives. 

"I am giving you the way I think as best 
as I know how," Fuller told the gathered 
architects, city planners and graphic de-
signers that first night. "These are the most 
prominent thoughts I have in my head, 
and I am really hoping you wiJl take these 
away from me and think about them and 
do something with them. But I don't think 
about any of these things as school work 
or credits or exercises. This is life, this is 
it, and we are living on the frontier. It's 
terribly exciting, because you gradually 
find that you are right, and you are seeing 
for the first time that man is beginning 
to realize what he is doing here in the uni-
verse, what his function is on this space-
ship, Earth .... " 

I first became interested in Buckminster 
Fuller three weeks ago. A friend, who was 
visiting Yale after leaving last September 
to try life in the East Village, had left an 
old hard-backed book by my bed, Fuller's 
1938 Nine Chains to the Moon, and I 
glanced at it before going to sleep. I had 
not heard him speak, and all I knew of 
Fuller was he had designed the geodesic 
dome. I first thought the book was a 
eulogy to technology, complete with fold-
out time lines showing the onward march 
of progress, and done with a rather pec-
uliar sense of world mission. I wanted to 
dismiss the book for its ignorance of the 
coming products of technology, but I 
remembered hearing rumours about some 
far-out game Fuller was planning at the 
A&A Building. I decided to ask someone 
who had gone to the classes what was 
going on. 

Fuller had been asked to come to Yale 
by Herbert Matter, a New York designer 
who wanted to make a movie about Fuller 
and his ideas. Matter visited him at his 
geodesic dome home in Carbondale, where 
Fuller is head of Southern Illinois Uni-
versity's World Resources Inventory. The 
two men decided to work with Matter's 
design students at Yale on the problem of 
visually communicating the ideas behind 
what should turn out to be Fuller's great-
est project, a natural outgrowth of the 
work he has been doing for most of his 
seventy-three years: The World Game. 

"I guess the best way to understand the 
World Game is to try to get into how 
Fuller thinks," Wayne Creekmore told 
me sitting at his desk in the basement of 
the A&A. Creekmore, a third-year design 
student, has committed himself to help 
figure out how to get Fuller's ideas across 
in visual terms. If he weren't "forced by 
society to make money to exist," he would 
devote all of his time to the problem, 
which he thinks is the most important 
work to be done in life. 

Now Fuller's thought-style is really 
pretty basic, which does not necessarily 
mean that it is widely known. He learned 
early in his life that, to trust the wisdom 
of his elders was to insure inaccurate 
Using tetrahedrons, Fuller has 
described three basic states of matter. 
solid 
faces laminate 
water 
edges hinge 
thought. (Partly because of this attitude, 
he was thrown out of Harvard twice.) "By 
now," he says, "I've spent a lot of my life 
just trying to unlearn ways that my reflexes 
have been conditioned to respond. It's 
hard, because it takes more than just in-
tellectually realizing what is right." What 
Fuller tries to do is "ask myself the largest 
questions I can think of asking, and then 
answer them without any preconceived 
ideas of politics or economics, but in terms 
of my own experience. And I find that if 
man does not think in terms of the total 
universe, he is likely to leave out some 
very important concepts." 

Take Fuller's example of Einstein's 
discoveries (somewhat simplified). When 
Einstein looked out at the universe and 
saw one star as a live show taking place 
thirty thousand years ago and another as a 
live show taking place eighteen hundred 
years ago, he intuitively felt that the con-
cept of an "instant," simultaneous uni-
verse was wrong. Instead, be postulated 
that the universe was "an aggregate of 
non-simultaneous, only partially over-
lapping transformations of events." Then 
maybe, he thought, the universe is not 
running down as so many men believe; 
and this led to the discovery of the real 
conservation of energy. Energy is not des-
troyed or lost; it just goes somewhere else. 

"But I find," Fuller told the design 
students, "that society is so tremendously 
specialized that there has been almost no 
philosophizing in this country, no integrat-
ing the significance of the different in-
formation coming in. For instance, be-
cause of the cosmological concept of the 
universe running down, as I came into the 
intellectual wocld of Harvard, this concept 
meant that our resources are going to 
diminish, that they get spent. Spending is 
a very powerful word in politics, the idea 
of running down. But there has been no 
revision of economics chapters because of 
the discovery of the real conservation of 
energy .... There was almost a philosophic 
premise that socialism wouldn't work 
because there wouldn't be enough to 
go around for everybody. But there is 
enough, now, for all of mankind." 

Reading Fuller is a little like reading 
optimistic science fiction, but when one 
considers that there are people dying 
every day of starvation and overcrowding, 
his ideas have overwhelming appeal. "Life 
tends to behave very well if it has the right 
environment," he has said. "Our job is 
to try to see how we can organize the world 
so man can be free to enjoy his total 
earth. The World Game is the way I began 
to see we might get there in a little more 
hurry than any other way." The Game is 
to be played on a computerized map of the 
world, and for forty years Fuller and his 
team have been compiling a vast inven-
tory of resources and human trends to 
feed into the computers. Experts in dif-
ferent fields from all over the world will 
travel to Carbondale to play the final 
game. (This summer students from col-
leges throughout America will play the 
Game for the first time, on a limited 
scale, working with Fuller at the Studio 
School in New York.) 

Fuller bas already come up with some 
pretty amazing proposals for man. After 
looking at energy sources, he bas 
suggested that man use income energy-
water, wind and direct sun power-rather 
than depletive (and pollutive) energy 
sources like oil and coal. There is, he 
says, more energy in one hurricane than 
in the combined atomic stockpiles of 
Russia and the US. One proposal he has




**AN OVERGROUND SEX-PROTEST FILM!**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.. AN OVERGROUND 
SEX-PROTEST FILM!j 
Greeii;Post i 
LINCOLN 
CROVVN 
starring LIV ULLMANN 
MAX VON SYDOW 
GUNNAR BJORNSTRAND 
Produced by A.B. Sven•k Filmindustri 
Distributed by 
LOPERT PICTURES CORPORATION


**When Clement Markert looks at the world, he sees the people.**
**Author: David Meter**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

When Clement Markert looks 
at the world, he sees the people. 
by David Meter

When Clement Markert was twenty, he 
and his university roommate said goodbye 
to Colorado and went to fight the fascists 
in the Spanish Civil War. Exactly a year 
later Markert was back in classes, begin-
ning honors work in Biology. His room-
mate was dead, killed when the Abraham 
Lincoln Brigade was surrounded by 
Franco's troops and virtually annihilated. 
Markert had been one of a lucky few. 

Today Clement L. Markert is fifty-two 
and chairman of the Yale biology depart-
ment. Although he is not well known 
among Yale students, he has a national 
reputation as a statesman among scientists. 
He edits journals, chairs committees and 
lobbies before scientific advisors to the 
US government as a member of the Com-
mittee on Science and Public Policy of 
the prestigious National Academy of 
Sciences. His research on the chemistry 
of the isozyme LDH produced the last 
significant discoveries in the field of de-
velopmental biochemistry until just 
recently. 

Markert is a brusque man. Some, even 
some who know him best, caJI him a cold 
man. He is known as a scrupolously fair, 
blunt and decisive department chairman 
who does not like to share responsibility 
and powers with anyone else. Few people 
think of him as a radical anymore, and 
few people know about his rich radical 
history in the tradition of the Interna-
tional. His life is now apolitical outside of 
scientific circles, an inactivity which is 
belied by the strong words he still uses 
to describe his "outrage" at the crimes 
of the American capitalist system. A col-
league and close friend gently chides him 
for his refusal to reenter radical activity 
and for his failure to play a major role 
in the Day of Reflection on science, tech-
nology and the military held March 4 at 
Yale. 

Markert himself considers that be is a 
"fundamentally very radical individual" 
according to a rather broad definition: 
A radical is one who is not only willing but 
dares to question the fundamental nature of 
anything he encounters, and I do contin-
uously. I don't really think you can be a good 
scientist unless you're pretty radical. 

His prescription for American society 
sounds radical too: 

The nature of our society requires a funda-
mental transformation, an overturning if you 
wish. And that's true at this very moment. 
Unless we are able to solve the problems of 
being a militaristic, imperialistic society, that's 
likely to create a crisis. In fact the Vietnam 
War has about created such now. But the 
powers that are running the country are able 
to even manage with that kind of egregious 
affront to the country ... they can still man-
age. It's incredible that they can do so. I 
should have thought something like the Viet-
nam War would have had ninety per cent of 
the population in the street with guns, but 
obviously it doesn't. If most people felt like 
I do, they would be in the street with guns. 

And yet Markert is not ready any longer 
to lead people into the street, because he 
concludes we are not really in a revolu-
tionary situation and knows more effi-
cient and less futile uses for his talent. 

Markert's office in the Kline Biology 
Tower is small and nearly undecorated, 
walled with pale yellow concrete blocks 
which would belong more in a warehouse 
or rec room than in a beautifully propor-
tioned skyscraper. There Markert sat be-
David Meter is a contributing editor of 
The New Journal. 
hind his desk and talked freely, if dispas-
sionately, about his history as a radical, 
a soldier and a biologist. I munched jelly-
beans from a small beaker on the desktop 
(they were a demonstration gift from the 
company that made the beaker), and 
listened, occasionally asking a question. 

Clement Markert's adolescent years in 
Pueblo, Colorado coincided exactly with 
the lowest depths of the Depression. The 
general mood of discouragement among 
Colorado steelworkers led him "tore-
pudiate completely any support for the 
so-called free enterprise system under 
which we operate." His father was a 
foreman in the steel mills, and Clement 
as a teenager went to work in the mills 
and nearby farms during the summers. 
While on the job, he helped organize the 
steelworkers union, and after two years 
of organizing saw the union win its first 
election and begin to act as the workers' 
bargaining agent. 

I didn't try to communicate my more sociaJist 
feelings because understanding them required 
a level of sensitivity and sophistication which 
scarcely any of the workmen bad. Rather, I 
tried to point out their immediate interests as 
I saw them. The security of their jobs, the 
level of their pay, the kind of treatment they 
would receive from the company. Not at all 
did I try to recruit them on the basis that the 
capitalist system was no good. If anyone had 
tried to do that, he would have failed. 

"Interacting" with communists and so-
cialists around the University of Colorado, 
where he went in 1935, politicized Mar-
kert even further. He became the leading 
organizer of a communist student group 
affiliated with the Communist Party of 
Colorado. The rise of Hitler, the Italian 
invasion of Ethiopia and the Japanese 
push into China provoked a reaction 
against fascism which bad a further effect 
on student-radical Markert. The Spanish 
war broke out in 1936: 

By the time I was a junior, the Spanish Civil 
War was in full swing. Various speakers 
would come through Colorado and would 
present information as to the nature of the 
war and its general significance. I became 
persuaded that in fact it was one of the major 
battlefronts in a growing conflict throughout 
the world between the fascist forces and all 
those who were against such a direction in 
human affairs .... It seemed to me that a 
touchstone of this battJe was represented by 
the Spanish War. Not so much that it was 
militarily significant, but was a kind of micro-
ments that were involved in a world-wide 
scale. And particularly it had a great deal of 
significance for countries like France, Eng-
land and the United States, m terms of mak-
ing the population aware of what the nature 
of the battles were throughout the world. I 
decided that the best thing to do would be 
to become a participant in that war. So I 
volunteered. 

The FBI was quickly informed of Mar-
kert's decision, and he and his roommate 
were denied passports. With help from 
friendly people in New York they were 
able to stow away aboard a freighter 
bound for France. "We had to lie under 
a seaman's bunk for fourteen days, all the 
time, all the way there. A couple of sym-
pathetic crew members fed us." The same 
sailors carried them off the ship, past . 
guards who assumed they were dead 
drunk. In Paris they made contact with 
comrades who soon helped them sneak 
across the Pyrenees into Spain, avoiding 
French police patrols. 

They reached Figueras and joined the 
International Brigades, then went to 
Albaceti for training. The situation was 
critical since Franco was trying to cut 
the Loyalist position in two by means of 
an offensive from his stronghold in the 
North all the way to the Mediterranean. 

CARNEt DE AFILIADO 
ARO 1938 II'! 224051 
g~~o 
~ 
Prolesi6n ?n.t~~L'.. 
--· 
Lugar de trabajo/!l.r/fd,{,S. J?8iS.r 
("ul. 
V' 
Radio 
( Provincial ~ 
•.. 
... ;/ 
·de i93a 
cosm, a representation of all the major ele-
Markert, having been trained for three 
weeks, was sent to the front with the 
Lincoln-Washington Battalion. 

Well, at the time I joined the battalion it had 
about five hundred members, and we were 
right in the center of the battle. Within a few 
days we were surrounded, and all but fifty of 
us were kiiJed. I was one of the lucky ones, of 
course. When the final breakup occurred, the 
survivors were dispersed at night, and I found 
myself back of the fascist lines and all alone, 
and it took me three days and three nights to 
make my way through the fascist lines until 
I came to the Ebro river which was the tem-
porary boundary between the opposing forces. 
And I swam across the river and was back in 
Loyalist territory. 

Markert regrouped with the Loyalists. 
I was a foot soldier at the beginning, but be-
came a scout. The scouts always proceeded 
the advance of the battalion. They usually 
discovered the enemy by getting shot at. That 
was the most certain way ... to discover 
them. Most all of the scouts were killed of 
course, sooner or later. At the end I was chief 
of the scouts, the Sergeant-in-Charge. But 
there were none at the end who started out 
when I did. They'd all been killed. 

I was very fatalistic about it. I didn't think 
my chances were worth anybody's gamble. 
After all, when you see everybody around 
you dying you can't be too confident it won't 
happen to you in the next few minutes. But 
I never worried about it. I realized that'd be 
one event I'd never regret, so I just didn't give 
it any serious thought. I took all of the nor-
mal, proper evasive action in order to pre-
serve myself in battle. I didn't stick my head 
up unnecessarily. 

In fact it's so hard sometimes that you just 
cancel out the danger and are not willing to 
work so hard any more. Instead of running 
bent over for the next hundred years you say 
'The Hell with it!' and just stand up and walk. 
You get so tired out that you just don't care 
what happens any more. On some marches, 
when we were surrounded, I remember we 
would march for so long, and-then rest for 
a few minutes, and then march again, that 
some individuals wouldn't get up. They'd say 
'Nope, it's not worth it'. 'Well look,' we say, 
'We're surrounded. You stay here and you'll 
be killed.' 'Too bad.' And they'd just stay 
there. We'd kick 'em and stick 'em with a 
bayonet to make 'em move. 

The internationals who remained in late 
1938 were evacuated by the League of 
Nations. The Loyalists had lost the war, 
the Munich agreement had been signed 
and the potentially anti-fascist forces in 
the world had not declared war on the 
menace seen by Markert three years 
earlier. Markert m ade it home for Christ-
mas and three weeks later was a fuU time 
student again. "Some people cannot be-
come satisfactory civilized human beings 
again after being in wars," Markert notes, 
but he himself" ... didn't have any dif-
ficulty at all. I was gone from the univer-
sity exactly a year and took right up where 
I left off." 

On his return Markert refused to join 
Veterans of th~ Abraham Lincoln Brigade 
because he didn't want to become "The 
Old Soldier," and because he felt that, 
"That was a very inefficient and sterile 
way to invest my political energies for 
the future." Today he has no contact with 
anyone he knew well then. 

When the United States finally entered 
the fight against fascism Markert volun-
teered for the Air Corps, which refused 
to accept him because of his "subversive" 
activities. So Markert joined the Merchant 
Marines and spent four years as a radio 
operator. 

While Markert was going to graduate 
school after the war he continued politick-
ing, a part of his life's activity which he 
describes in an exceedingly prosaic way. 
He canvassed for Henry WaUace in 1948 
with the Committee of the Arts, Sciences 
and Professions, which, as J . P. Trinkaus, 
who worked with him then, interprets it, 
represented the American non-communist 
democratic left. Markert just says that he 
was still involved in organizing laborers, 
working for certain pieces of legislation 
or for "this person or that." He began to 
feel that action in purely political arenas 
didn't make much practical difference to 
the advance of the causes in which he 
believed. He grew discouraged and around 
1950 "just stopped" trying to organize 
people. He became a biolosist exclusively, 
moved from department to department 
and built a distinguished career, restricting 
his political expression to radical "inter-
action" with those immediately around 
him and to rational advising of people 
in high places. 

America's prosperity under capitalism 
since World War II surprised Markert 
and seems to have disillusioned him from 
further radical action. The effect of this 
prosperity on American workers, who 

VACATIONING 
AWAY FROM 
NEW HAVEN 
THIS SUMMER? 
Stop into 
Blue Jay Cleaners 
and take advantage 
of their summer 
box storage service. 
~Ayawm 
Puc all your winter garments 
into a giant hamper now and 
pick them up in the fall, 
freshly cleaned and pressed, 
ready co wear. Pay nothing till 
fall! Only $2.95 plus dry 
cleaning and pressing charges. 
Established I 9 3 2 
51 Broadway

shifted their support from one Wallace 
to another twenty years later, was for 
Markert "an ironic, bitter pill to swallow." 

All this changed Markert's perception of 
the system, though not his readiness to 
rail against it, with charges of "outrage," 
"insanity," "absurdity," and "grossly 
distorted" social goals "not worthy of 
the consideration of rational men." 

What really was required was a transforma-
tion of the whole nature of our society and 
after the tremendous battles that were in-
volved in organizing labor-and I played a 
small role in those-it turned out that labor 
became one of the most conservative influ-
ences in our society.! had not the slightest 
interest in bringing about the organization 
of labor if the consequences were that those 
people were then going to be a conservative 
weight on society. And that's exactly what 
happened. I could perceive that sort of thing 
already in the fifti~ven in the forties-then 
it was clear to me that that was a futile way 
to proceed. 

It was also clear that American society 
was not rigid enough to get itself into a rev-
olutionary situation. It would accommodate 
itself to whatever the stresses and strains of 
changing views were, to make them fit the 
circumstances. I don't particularly like that, 
since I'm not particularly enamored of our 
society and I'd like to see it disintegrate and 
something better formed. 

No, I don't have any confidence in the 
mass of the people in terms of their ability 
to see the truth. Certainly the idea which I 
shared at one time, that one could have a lot 
of confidence in the common man as it were, 
is a bunch of nonsense. Their personal de-
velopment leaves a lot to be desired. 

One factor in Markert's withdrawal from 
active radicalism seems to have been his 
investigation for subversive activity dur-
ing the McCarthy era, although be does 
not mention the inquiry in that context 
himself. He refused to testify before a 
witch-hunting subcommittee of the Ho~se 
Un-American Activities Committee while 
be was an assistant professor at the Uni-
versity of Michigan in 1954. For this re-
fusal he nearly lost his post in the biology 
department, but after very adroit politick-
ing and with the help of others on the 
Michigan faculty, a committee which 
voted to fire two of his colleagues decided 
to retain him. Markert proudly attributes 
his survival in that situation to the high 
quality of his research. His good work is 
his hook in the system which forces people 
to keep him around whatever they think 
of his views. And indeed Roger Pedersen, 
one of Markert's graduate students who 
has been active in the Resistance at Yale 
says, "The most important thing Markert 
represents to me is that if you're good you 
don't have to be afraid of getting into 
trouble with the system. He helps me feel 
I'm free to be political now." 

Markert is not quite so confident that 
this is the case. One of the biologists fired 
by Michigan in 1954 went into exile in 
Canada and continued his scientific work 
successfully. Markert wouldn't have gone 
to Canada, even though his career in the 
United States would have been ruined. "If 
I had been axed at Michigan," he says 
now, " I might have been forced into politi-
cal life." Markert's important discoveries 
in biology all came after 1954. 

As Clement Markert has become a more 
sophisticated scientist, and as he has be-
come progressively more interested in 
world population problems. his notions 
of which forces are most important in 
society have been rearranged. Mass politi-
cal action has been debased in his heir-
archy of forces, and the role of sound 
advice given at strategic points within the 
system has been upgraded. On the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences' Committee 
on Science and Public Policy, which he 
considers the "most prestigious scientific 
group in the country outside the govern-
ment," he knows that, "A person like me 
all by myself can hope to have some in-
fluence. A few hours spent working on 
that are likely to have a thousand times 
more effect than a thousand hours spent 
trying to organize a peace demonstration." 

The Committee on Science and Public 
Policy met two months ago with Lee 
DuBridge, Nixon's new science advisor. 
Markert believes his committtee's esta~ 
lishment of a Committee on Population 
Control several years ago was chiefly re-
sponsible for changing the attitude of the 
Kennedy administration towards birth 
control from indifference and hostility to 
promotion of contraceptives. 

I consider that a fundamental advance. Most 
great transformations in human events do 
not occur on the battlefield. They occur in 
people being persuaded that they should have 
two kids instead of four, say. That bas more 
effect than any dramatic political battle. 

I think I can have a more radical effect 
functioning in that area of human affairs 
than I can as just one of another of thousands 
or millions in the final cataclysmic show-
downs of political confrontations. Those to 
me are just terminal expressions and are not 
the forces that really reshape society. 

These are not changes in policy from the 
top but physical differences in the way men 
live which are brought about by science and 
technology, and which then influence their 
thinking. For example, agriculture became so 
productive that everybody moved off the 
farms. Farming became a trivial aspect of 
American society. And that's all happened 
in the last twenty years. 

It wasn't any political revolution that pro-
duced that. In the 1930's the farmer was a 
very important political force in our society. 
Now he doesn't count for anything. That was 
a tremendous transformation. more dramatic 
than it would have been if he had been con-
quered by an army. 

It is not hard to understand Clement 
Markert's thirty-year transition from a 
radical organizer to an elitist technocrat. 
He has always been aware of the vanguard 
and wants very much to be in it. 

For example, he is highly skeptical of 
the competence of Yale undergraduates 
who are "not quite adult" to know what 
they need academically and even emo-
tionally, much less to know enough to 
play a role in the administration of Yale. 
The biology department, however, was 
the first Yale department to have under-
graduate representation on its Course of 
Study Committee. One of his colleagues 
gives himself the credit for convincing 
Markert to make the innovation. "I said, 
'Look, Clem, do you want us to be first 
in something?' And be always does!" So 
the change was made. 

Roger Pederson, who seems as close as 
anyone to being a disciple of Markert, 
explains that in his teaching and style as 
a scientist Markert places the highest 
value on steering inquiry and research 
toward the most fundamental and far-
reaching problems in the discipline. Ac-
cordingly, Pederson reports that the nine 
graduate students working with Markert 
will be shifting the field of their research 
beginning next year from isozyme bio-
chemistry to work with mouse embryos 
cultured in test tubes. This work, which 
depends on culture techniques that have 
only been developed in the last two years, 
could have profound implications for 
humans within a few more years. And 
Clement Markert, for his part, is ready 
to actualize some of these implications. 

If I discover some way of causing human 
beings to be one genotype or another, that 
could be of some consequence even in my 
lifetime. We could produce a thousand Ein-
stein types, or Horowitzes, or something 
like that. We'll be able to do that, if we want 
to, and I'd like to see it tried. 

Mr. Markert, however, considers this type 
of work of low priority compared to the 
social task of making it possible for people 
to develop fully according to their current 
genotypes. Moreover, he claims he feels no 
sense of urgency in his interests in genetics 
and development, beyond his scientist's 
urge to understand the world, since the 
problems of future races of men are be-
yond his and all men's capacities for 
empathy. 

In fact, as we are at this moment, if we were 
transplanted by some magical time travel 
into some society ten thousand years hence 
composed of very different human beings, 
we wouldn't like it at all. We can only ap-
preciate and profit by a society which is based 
on the kind of people we are at this moment-
not upon some different kind of person. We 
wouldn't like things ten thousand years from 
now any more than some chimpanzees would 
like to take up residence in the Kline Biology 
Tower. They much prefer it out in the 
jungles. 

Markert is emphatic in his belief that 
biology is the most humanistic discipline 
at Yale, because during the forseeable 
future it will have more to say, and more 
to actually define, about the nature of 
men than any other discipline. Markert 
is eager to thrash out ahead of time ethical 
and practical questions which inevitably 
grow out of research in human genetics 
and reproduction. He is excited about a 
new biology course for non-science majors 
which his

**When Ed Logue Looks at the World, He Sees Buildings**
**Author: Susan Braudy**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Ed Logue looks at 
the world, he sees buildings. 
by Susan Braudy 
Jane Jacobs, the author and urban critic, 
says she knew Ed Logue was a bad fellow 
when he confided to her that another fire 
would be the best thing that could happen 
to San Francisco. It would allow them to 
plan things, he explained. Logue likes to 
plan things. As head of Nelson Rocke-
feller's New York State Urban Develop-
ment Corporation (SUDC) since last April, 
he can condemn and build anything, any-
where in New York State, even against the 
wishes of local mayors and their communi-
ties. Today, Edward J. Logue is without 
question the most powerful urban renewal 
director in the country. 

When Logue started lecturing at Yale 
Law School years ago, students crowded 
the wainscotted classroom to pay homage 
to a glamorous, super-tough, super-suc-
cessful Yale Law graduate. Ed Logue's 
brains and drive had gathered enormous 
worldly power in the name of liberal ideas, 
a formula the awed students memorized 
eagerly. He had changed the faces of two 
American cities, New Haven in the 1950's 
and Boston in the early 1960's, bringing 
down buildings almost as easily as a subur-
ban gardener weeds crabgrass from his 
front lawn. Logue used New Haven as his 
renewal laboratory. He changed the dying 
heart of a dirty milltown into a thriving 
business district. Like Lewis Carroll"s red 
queen, Logue has stayed in that one place, 
New Haven, though he bas travelled from 
city to city in the past sixteen years. His 
New Haven formula: hire a bright, young, 
highly-paid staff, finagle millions from 
the "feds" (federal government), seduce 
businessmen to invest in the downtown 
business district, build roads to bring Mrs. 
Suburban-Shopper into town, relocate 
slum dwellers and, most important, make 
sure Ed Logue calls every shot. 

In the old days Logue always finished 
his Saturday morning lectures at Yale in 
time to get to the Yale Bowl for a home 
game. But the last time he lectured at Yale 
angry students made him late for the kick-
off, battling with him over what they felt 
was his inattention to the needs of the poor 
black people whose ghetto homes he had 
bulldozed or rehabilitated to make way for 
upper and middle income housing, high-
ways, office buildings and department 
stores. While others had theorized, he had 
acted, and in the process he became re-
sponsible for many of the sins and achieve-
Susan Broudy, a former associate editor of 
The New Journal, is currently a free 14nce 
writer in New York. Her writing has 
appeared in New York and The New York 
Times Magazine. 
ments of urban renewal. 

Logue first wiped away New Raven's 
ugliest slum, Oak Street, with bulldozers. 
Residents fled to the city's other slums, to 
nearby West Haven and to Bridgeport. 
The old Oak Street ghetto now contains a 
super-highway that empties suburbanites 
into the new downtown shopping center, 
several luxury highrise apartment build-
ings and office buildings. Today Logue the 
politician admits to one mistake in New 
Haven. "I should have kept design control 
over the buildings in Oak Street," he says. 
"In my ignorance, I thought I could rely 
on the Southern New England Telephone 
Company to choose good architecture." 

New Haven was Logue's working mod-
el. Previously planners designed almost 
solely for professional citations, then 
shelved their work and their awards. 
Logue built buildings. But slum dwellers 
never fared as well as the suburban shop-
per, who never came back to live in New 
Haven, but station-wagonned in every day 
to shop at the new Macy's. Over twenty-
two hundred lower-income New Haveners 
have been moved and removed, some of 
them three and four times. Logue's coali-
tion for urban renewal didn't include one 
minority, the poor and the propertyless. 
"You have to hurt somebody in this busi-
ness," says a former Logue aide. "So you 
hurt those who can't hurt the program." 

Logue's defenders say it was a question 
of taking inadequate steps or doing noth-
ing in New Haven. But there were still 
slums in New Haven, new slums and old 
ones. Then came the riots in the summer 
of 1967. Was there trouble in paradise? 
National attention focused fleetingly on 
New Raven's problems instead of her 
buildings. Today New Haven redevelop-
ment plans are blocked by angry citizens 
who say they resent being treated as pawns 
in the paternalistic game of !-know-what's-
best-for-you. After years of being manipu-
lated, fear and mistrust are the ghetto 
dweller's reaction to redevelopment. Citi-
zen opposition is stronger here than in any 
other city. 

Logue met opposition with anger, logic 
and forcefulness. He had a way of shutting 
out arguments, recalls an aide. If you dis-
agreed with him, you were bad. He stayed 
up nights memorizing federal urban re-
newal regulations and proved his genius 
for getting money from the "feds." Today, 
New Haven has received $930 per capita 
from the federal government, more than 
any other city and more than twice as 
much as New York. 

These days, Logue is almost impossible 
to catch up with to interview. He spends 
his days criss-crossing New York State: 
by plane and train for a businessman's 
luncheon in Buffalo, to Albany for a con-
ference with Rockefeller and a speech to 
a synagogue fellowship, then back to his 
New York City office. Weekends he shut-
tles from New York to his Beacon Hill 
home in Boston where his family is mak-
ing plans to move to New York. 

After settling his briefcase and my coat 
on a crowded commuter train to New 
Haven where he is going for a farniiJ din-
ner at his mother-in-law's home, I...Oaue 
flatly denies students' charges agail\st him. 
"Lookit, I'm not a bad fellow." He speaks 
quickly with nasal vowels which are a 
combination of Philadelphia and Yale. 
He's put on a little weight since the old 
New Haven days; his blue eyes are still 
black fringed but a little tired; his hair is 
graying. He looks like an elderly, fatter, 
Ivy-League version of Glenn Ford. 

''I'm not a bad fellow. Urban renewal 
wouldn't be around this long if it meant 
pushing people out in the streets. There 
aren't any villains in this business. I never 
go into a community unless I am invited." 
"By the property owners?" I ask. 
"No," he purses his lips and makes an 
angry noise. Our train is passing through 
Harlem, and tenement lights flicker across 
his angry face and his Shetland jacket as 
he stares out the window. He's an incur-
able building watcher. "Some people say 
if neighborhood people come to me, they 
must be Uncle Toms or bourgeois. But 
I'm invited into neighborhoods by minis-
ters, schoolteachers, factory workers-a 
good cross section." 

Last spring Governor Rockefeller, then 
the urban presidential candidate, declared 
that New York State must take some 
responsibility for the plight of the cities. 
He twisted a few arms with several late-
night phone calls to get SUDC legislation 
through a hostile state assembly on the 
night of Dr. Martin Luther King's funeral, 
even though the legislation had been de-
feated earlier. Said Rocky proudly a few 
weeks later at a news conference announc-
ing Logue's appointment, "I chose Edward 
Logue to direct urban development be-
cause Logue gets things done." 

Logue's New York State appropriation 
is seventeen million. One year from now 
he will issue one billion dollars in bonds. 
which Rockefeller predicts will generate 
five billion more in private investment and 
federal grants, a total of six billion for 
building purposes. Previously, renewal 
chiefs applied for federal funds, con-
demned buildings, then sold land to private 
developers who would finance construe-


--- Page 8 ---

8 I The New Journal! May 11, 1969 
tion. Now Logue can do this and more. 
He can act as the state government or as 
a private developer. He is being paid fifty 
thousand dollars a year to carry urban 
renewal, if he wants to, from start to finish. 
To cities all over New York State he offers 
savvy, power and relief from years of 
struggling with red tape and unfinished 
projects. 

While the New Haven-bound train 
lurches into the Fairfield County night, 
I ask Logue about his overwhelming pow-
er. As a consultant while SUDC legislation 
was being prepared, Logue insisted that a 
program-head have the power to override 
local protests. I ask him why he wanted 
this power. Does it say, I'm the boss; deal 
with me or else? The question makes him 
shift angrily forward, and the springs 
squeal in the worn velvet train seat. Then 
he slouches down into his jowls, the seat 
and his coat. Logue loves a fight. He looks 
like a governor or a senator;but his man-
ner is abrasive, boyish. 

"Why don't you repeat that question, 
stamping your foot and raising your fist 
for every place you've loaded it?" Logue 
throws me a fast appraising look and be-
gins to talk. "Cities aren't equipped to do 
the job. The 'feds' have their troubles too. 
People aren't gaining on city problems. 
I won't go anywhere without an invitation. 
I will go to City HaJJ and work with Mr. 
Mayor. I won't fight him. And right now 
we've lots of business in New York." He 
turns back to building-watching as we pass 
through Bridgeport. 

Mayor Lindsay has attacked Logue's 
program for its invading and encroaching 
on homerule. There are two theories about 
what will happen to Logue in New York 
City. Some say state-city harmony is a 
must; both sides want SUDC money spent 
here. Others predict a battle a month be-
tween Logue and Lindsay. 

New Towns are now the magic words 
around Logue's new Manhattan head-
quarters at 666 Fifth Avenue, where a 
black receptionist sits surrounded by car-
tons of roadmaps and blueprints. New 
Town traditionally has meartt a planned 
self-sufficient city built as a unit on a large 
tract of vacant land. This traditional New 
Town contains its own houses, factories, 
stores, parks and office buildings. New 
Towns in this country like Reston, Virginia 
and Columbia, Maryland are advertised by 
brochures that happily depict uniformly 
white-middle-class suburban families liv-
ing out the Readers' Digest version of the 
American dream. 

Logue's New Towns are still to be 
planned. They will be located inside exist-
ing towns like Utica and just outside places 
like Albany, Syracuse, Rochester, Buffalo 
and Newburgh. But Logue's New Towns 
wouldn't be completely self-sufficient. 
Residents would depend on nearby or 
surrounding established towns for some 
jobs, schools and recreation. 

Says a planning critic, "We all turned 
up our noses at Levitt's instant communi-
ties ten years ago. But now Logue adds a 
tree-shaded factory, an office building or 
two, some token low-income housing, and 
he's got a fancy social experiment called 
the New Town." 

" New Towns are our goals for New 
York State," says Logue. "We will cre3te 
balanced communities, racially and eco-
nomically." 

What he doesn't say is that his New 
Town is substantially the same thing he's 
been building for years: predominantly 
upper and middle income houses, central 
business districts and token low-rent hous-
ing. 

Logue has added or perhaps subtracted 
one wrinkle in his formula. He will have 
fewer people problems with his New 
Towns because he is building them on 
vacant land. He won't have to relocate, 
build homes for, or plan with people al-
ready Jiving on the sites he's chosen. It's 
as though the area has already been bull-
dozed and the people scattered for him. 

A Logue fan, a former New Haven Re-
development aide says, "Though he isn't 
admitting it, maybe Ed's finally learned 
he's not a community person. He never 
used the energies of the ghetto or slum 
community anyway in the planning proc-
ess; not that any other efficient planner did 
either. Bob Moses, I suspect, cared a little 
more for cars than for people. One never 
stops hoping that Ed cares a little more 
for people than for buildings." 

But Logue has again run into people 
problems in a New Town called Fort 
Lincoln, for which he directed planning 
on an empty tract outside Washington, 
D.C. The project's neighbors-mostly 
black homeowners-are upset because they 
haven't been consulted about the first 
families Logue has decided to move in. 
These will be poor blacks and will com-
prise up to 10% of the total project popu-
lation. Neighbors fear the poorer residents 
will set the tone, and that the project won't 
attract middle-class whites and blacks. 

Jesse Jackson, head of the local citizens' 
planning council complained, "This will 
be another ghetto. I don't see how any 
sensible person could expect a fifty-fifty 
racial balance by any stretch of the imagi-
nation." 

Logue's father died when Logue was in 
his teens, and he worked his way through 
Yale waiting on tables. After graduation 
he flew seventeen missions as an Air Force 
bombardier in Italy. Critics cite his bom-
bardier days as his only training for the 
wholesale bulldozing and flattening of 
New Haven and Boston slums. 

After the war, Logue returned to Yale 
Law School, where he found time to 
unionize law school and hospitaJ employ-
ees for the United Mine Workers. He ad-
mired John L. Lewis as one man who 
knew how to use power. As the campus 
radical, Logue also married Margaret 
DeVane, the daughter of the Dean of 
Yale College. While Logue was organiz-
ing a hospital strike, his mother-in-law 
was a patient. She approved. 

After graduation in 1949, Logue 
worked in Philadelphia as a labor lawyer. 
"I quickly became dissatisfied," recalls 
Logue riding toward New Haven, "be· 
cause the real power decisions were made 
by elected labor leaders. The lawyers were 
just technicians." Obsession with the pow-
er of elected officials has been the Logue 
life theme. Today one of his favorite jokes 
concerns Tacky O'Dwyer, a political 
crony of Mayor Richard Lee, who ran 
New Raven's parking garage. Once 
O'Dwyer sent a pal to Lee for a patronage 
job. 

"Well," Lee asked, "what job do you 
want?" 
"I want Tacky's job," announced 
Tacky's pal. 
"Then what's left for Tacky?" won-
dered Lee. 

"Tacky's job" became Logue's code-
words for the coveted power of Logue·s 
bosses. When he ran for mayor of Boston 
in 1967, he was after Tacky's job. In 1966, 
while he was writing the report to Lindsay 
which recommended giving centralized 
planning powers, developing powers and 
budget powers to Edward Logue, aides 
asked, "What's left for Lindsay?" Logue 
laughed shortly, "You mean what's left 
for Tacky?" 

In 1953 Logue drifted back to New 
Haven, lured by his pregnant wife's liking 
for a local obstetrician. Logue had planned 
to practice law, but found himself instead 
working in the thick of Richard Lee's 
mayoral campaign. After Lee won, he 
called Logue into his office, pulled a copy 
of the city charter from a desk drawer 
and asked casually, "How about working 
for me? Take a look here and see if any-
thing appeals to you." 

Logue finally became Lee's official sec-
retary at six thousand dollars a year with 
backstage powers as deputy mayor. After 
one year, Logue was running the Rede-
velopment Agency. After two, he officially 
or unofficially ran all city agencies' activi-
ties that had anything to do with redevel-
opment-zoning, traffic, parks, and even 
schools. New Haven became the country's 
first model city, a m iracle of renewal in 
the urban desert. Awed bureaucrats from 
all over the country trooped dutifully and 
even enthusiastically to the shrine. 

Some of Logue's New Haven subordi-
nates felt his programs were more im-
portant to him than the people he worked 
with. "We fought continually, right until 
the time Logue left in 1961," Mayor Lee 
has said. Their fights were power struggles. 
Logue wanted Tacky's job. He aJso wanted 
the public trappings that went with his 
powerful number-two role. But Lee want-
ed to keep him under wraps. Says Logue, 
"I was ready to be a behind-the-scenes 
fella, but there was a difference between 
being a subordinate and a slave. Once 
Dick cut the ground out from under me in 
public. When he did that, I just got up 
and quit." 

Today Logue and Lee blissfully agree 
they fought like brothers. Indeed, Lee's 
adroitness at handling people made the 
two men for a time an almost perfect team. 
Logue and others attribute much of their 
success in New Haven to the chemistry 
between Logue and his boss. 

Logue is still a loyal Old Blue, who had 
the doors to his home on Beacon Hill and 
to his Boston Redevelopment office painted 
Yale blue. He attends all YaJe home games, 
and he joins thousands of fellow Yalies 
who have champagne on ice plus banquet 
at the Harvard game. "Tailgating," they 
call it, as they sit on folding chairs in 
raccoon coats, eating out of the backs of 
their Buick station wagons. 

But, while other Yalies visit Mary's or 
favorite teachers, Logue returns to Dick 
Lee's house for their traditional Thanks-
giving party. Here, with Logue squeezed 
next to him on the couch, Lee starts to 
tell anecdotes of the early urban renewal 
days. Soon Logue and Lee are topping 
each other's stories. The other graduates 
of Lee's urban renewal crash course listen 
nostaJgically. "It's like returning to Mecca 
every year," sighs one usually no-nonsense 
type. New Haven, despite riots and angry 
slum dwellers, is still their model, their 
Mecca, as it is Logue's. Only the wives are 
bored at these reunions. They daydream


--- Page 9 ---

·.· 
··~:; 
~~--. :.·' 
- . --:--cr,: . . . 
'-·-· 
r 
and half-listen to this year's version of 
stories they've heard for the past ten years. 

In December, 1965, Logue came to New 
York to serve on Charles Abrams' housing 
task force for Mayor-elect Lindsay. Logue 
attended few meetings, but he did have 
time for a public confrontation with urban 
critic Jane Jacobs over lunch at the Har-
vard Club. Her book Death and Life of 
Great American Cities argued that neigh-
borhoods and people's homes should be 
preserved, not destroyed by renewers. To 
Logue partisans, she is a "soft-beaded-
slum-lover." She believes in community 
control of planning, to the extent of get-
ting herself arrested recently for leading 
a demonstration that resulted in her des-
truction of the stenographic record of a 
public hearing on the Lower Manhattan 
Expressway. 

On the train Logue looks only a little 
like the tired commuters around him star-
ing at folded newspapers as he describes 
his exchange with his favorite arch-enemy. 
"Jane came on very strong as usual, 
skidding over facts like suds. She was 
bitching as usual about urban renewal. She 
said we shouldn't even be talking about it. 
I finally said, lookit, Jane, you tell the 
Mayor and the rest of us what you'd like 
to see changed in your neighborhood. Or 
is it perfect the way it is? So she started 
listing planning with people, new schools, 
new low and middle income houses, re-
habilitation of existing homes and good 
social services. When she was all through, 
I sai~, Jane, we call that stuff urban re-
newal. I don't know what you call it, may-be you have some great new name. The 
Mayor then laughed like hell," remembers 
Logue shaking his head and slapping his 
armrest happily, "and we finished our 
lunch." 

Jane Jacobs might have responded that 
she differed with Logue on priorities. 
Logue, she would say, gives only token 
emphasis to community planning, re-
habilitation and social services. During 
that luncheon at the Harvard Club, she 
and a few others were horrified to hear 
Logue remark, "If you want to bulldoze a 
neighborhood, you can avoid community 
protest by enlarging the boundaries of 
your total renewal area. Then the bull-
dozed area will be a smaller part of the 
whole." 

Jane Jacobs had not seen the last of 
Edward Logue. Two months later she was 
to rush to an African C hurch in East 
Harlem, visions of bulldozers dancing in 
her head, for a panicky secret meeting. 
Mayor Lindsay had invited Logue to New 
York to write himself an urban renewal 
program and head it up. At the meeting 
Jane Jacobs worried about Lindsay's latest 
move with community control partisans 
like Herbert Gans, one of urban renewal's 
most sensitive and relentless critics. Gans, 
a Colombia professor and author of The 
Urban Villagers, has been dogging Logue's 
heels since the 50's. Gans, Jane Jacobs and 
others decided to commission Michael 
Appleby, a Ph.D. candidate in planning at 
Harvard, to write a report on Logue's 
Boston renewal work. 

"Appleby was a good choice," says 
Gans, a shy man whose office is tilled with 
yellowing Timeses, Lifes and Newswuks, 
and who mumbles, "because Appleby, 
though we didn't realize it, knew lots of 
people working with Logue in Boston." 

"Let Gans talk ideal solutions all he 
wants," says a poverty program executive, 
who also started in New Haven, as he 
chews his cigar. "Gans never met a payroll 
in his life. He never ran a program, never 
built a building." 

So while Logue and company compiled 
"Let There Be Commitment," Logue's 
report on New York's housing ills, 
Appleby compiled his report on Logue's 
Boston record. Appleby's is a scholarly 
document that carefully footnotes statistics 
for factual claims. Logue was tops in his 
field, summarized Gans' introduction, at 
building business booms and middle class 
housing. But New York needed low-
income housing badly. Could Logue adapt 
to the new situation? Could he relocate 
slum dwellers in their own repaired, not 
bulldozed neighborhood according to 
plans they've helped to make? Could he 
change his priorities? 

Logue and his New York staff met for 
the first time on a wintry night in January, 
1966. Logue had discovered that no city-

**Irish Casuals**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Irish 
·Saddle leather 
Casuals 
M ade by the originators of the famous 
Desert Boot. Finished in a rich saddle-
tan w ith dark edged Malayan crepe 
soles. Bench crafted and superbly com-
fortable. C o me in fo r a fitting. $18.95


**A Response to Paul Goldberger**
**Author: Douglas Hallett**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I T he New Journal I May 11, 1969 
policy with openness, honesty and candor. 
My own column, which Mr. Goldberger 
has incorrectly interpreted as News policy 
~eiterated this request and went beyond ' 
1t to both support Mr. Paros's ideas 
and criticize administration handling 
of the Summer High School issue. I do 
not believe that Mr. Paros is infallible; he 
has made mistakes as he indicates quite 
clearly i~ his Director's Report. He may 
even be mcompetent; 1 haven't accused 
him of being so because I have seen no 
evidence to prove it and much to the con-
trary. But nothing Mr. Paros has done or 
could do would warrant the treatment 
he has received from Joel Fleishman 
Jonathan Fanton, Richard Sewall and 
The New Journal. For the consequences 
of that view, I, not the News, should bear 
full responsiblity. 
Douglas Hallett


**Paul Goldberger's Reply**
**Author: Paul Goldberger**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

Paul Goldberger replies: 
I am grateful for Mr. Hallett's careful 
reading of my article. I am sorry, however, 
that he seems unable to answer without 
resorting to the same biases, unsupported 
assertions and outright misstatements of 
~act that have characterized his reporting 
m the Yale Daily News. 
First, the purpose of my article was 
only to prove that there is a reasonable 
doubt about the success of the 1968 pro-
gram. I feel this doubt is sufficient to 
have justified Mr. Paros's dismissal. Mr. 
Hallett only barely concedes that it exists. 
I feel compelled to clear up several 
particularly blatant errors contained in 
Mr. Hallett's letter before I state my own 
position further. First, his statement that, 
"By the traditional criteria of college 
admissions, Mr. Paros was more success-
ful than his predecessor, Joel Fleishman" 
is false. Ninety-nine per cent of the Su~­
mer H igh School students from Mr. 
Fleishman's years (1965-66) were ad-
mitted to college. T he Students in the 
Yale Summer High School last summer 
have not all reached their senior year of 
high school, and have not yet begun to 
make applications to college. Therefore, 
no final figures even exist for Mr. Paros's 
years; Mr. Hallett seems to demonstrate 
remarkable powers of clairvoyance in 
asserting that Mr. Paros's "record" is 
higher. And moreover, students for Mr. 
Paros's first year (1967) were selected by 
Mr. Fleishman before Mr. Paros assumed 
his d ~ ties and therefore do not represent 
the kmd of student Mr. Paros states his 
program existed to deal with. 
I question Mr. H allett's assertion that 
"the vast majority" of students and faculty 
s~pport Mr. Paros's work. True, many 
d1d-but my article mentions this. As an 
attempt to give the other side of the story-
to explain this "reasonable doubt"-J nat-
urally turned toward critics, none of 
whose comments had ever found their 
way to what Mr. H allett calls the "un-
biased" pages of the News. Indeed, if 
Mr. Hallett had access to these comments, 
as he claims he did, why did he never 
choose to print any? The administration's 
~efusa l to talk, which I join Mr. Hallett 
m deploring, does not absolve him of any 
responsibility to investigate the other side. 
The News's decision to ignore the other 
point of view based on the administration's 
~a-comment stance is not only unfair; it 
IS a cheap and easy way of evading the 
newspaperman's responsibility to print 
both sides of the story. 
Mr. Hallett's assertion that Jonathan 
Hall read the faculty statement to Peter 
Ciochetto is another untruth. Given the 
level of conduct of Mr. HaJJ and Mr. Paros 
during the course of the controversy, I 
must say I am willing to reject their word 
in favor of that of Mr. Ciochetto, who 
again says that the statement was never 
read to him, but instead paraphrased 
wrongly, in order to gain rights to his 
signature. Mr. Ciochetto had never before 
heard the statement the News printed 
until I read it to him over the telephone. 
Mr. Hallett's comment that the an-
thology of faculty comments has "never 
before been given to the Board" is another 
untruth. Mr. Fleishman made a regular 
practice of reviewing it with the Admin-
istrative Board during his tenure. And it 
is easy to say that "Mr. Paros was quite 
willing to let anyone see it once they 
understood its nature," for very few 
people did understand its nature-how 
could they if they were never even told 
of its existence? 
Mr. Hallett's attempt to explain the 
financial problem, rather than put that 
issue to rest, opens a Pandora's box of 
erroneous assertions. It is true that Mr. 
Fleishman, as Mr. Paros's superior, shares 
responsibility. But the actual errors them-
selves remain the fault of Mr. Paros. 
First, it is hard to believe that "Mr. 
Paros understandably modelled his budget 
on Mr. Fleishman's for the previous year," 
for Mr. Fleishman's included overhead 
charges, that elusive item Mr. Paros seems 
to have forgotten. Mr. Hallett further 
states that "Mr. Paros's budget, with no 
overhead charges, went through to Wash-
ington with the necessary approval." 
Again he is in error. My checks with the 
Office of Economic Opportunity in Wash-
ington have revealed that $21 ,812 in 
overhead charges was included in the 
I 968 budget, an amount added by the 
University before the budget went on to 
Washington. Mr. Paros would be wise to 
keep a closer eye on his budgets-just be-
cause he forgot overhead does not give 
him the right to charge that the university 
accounting offices made the same mistake. 
I find its curious, though, that Mr. Paros 
forgets to include overhead costs when he 
prepares his own budget yet remembers 
them quickly when they can be used in 
his defense. It is true that the university 
Comptroller's Office erred and neglected 
to account for eleven thousand dollars . 
in overhead on the 1966-67 OEO grant 
for the Summer High School. But this 
error was in Mr. Paros's favor and, con-
trary to his claims, the University admits 
its error and has not sought to reclaim the 
eleven thousand dollars. But since the 
sum must be made up out of university 
contingency funds, it is included in the 
overall Summer High School deficit-i.e., 
the overall amount of money the Univer-
sity will have to supply to rebalance the 
Summer High School accounts. But no 
one charges Mr. Paros with responsibility 
for the eleven thousand dollars. And 
moreover, the Provost has authorized 
that twelve thousand dollars overhead be 
waived on another OEO grant to reduce 
the level of the deficit for which Mr. Paros 
is responsibile. Why has Mr. H allett not 
mentioned this? 
The figure of only six thousand dollars 
in additional expenses for the twenty-eight 
extra students in the program is highly 
questionable. While half of the students 
did bring five hundred dollars, this hardly 
offsets the estimated cost of fifteen hun-
dred dol1ars per student, which totals 
forty-two thousand dollars, quite a cut 
above the six-thousand figure. And if, as 
Mr. Paros states, no new teachers were 
necessary for twenty-eight students, it 
appears as though the Summer High 
School was overstaffed in the first place or, 
worse, that the program was watered 
down to accommodate the extra students. 
But most important, there is no truth 
whatsoever in Mr. Hallett's statement that 
Mr. Fleishman approved the increase in 
number of students. Mr. Fleishman was 
never even questioned about the increase; 
Mr. Paros simply accepted the extra stu-
dents without authorization. (I find it in-
teresting to note that Mr. Paros himself 
never claimed Mr. Fleishman's approval 
on this matter. Again, Mr. Hallett's zeal 
has driven him to distort facts to an even 
greater extent than Mr. Paros has.) 
The Director's Report, which Mr. Hal-
lett maintains costs less than a previous 
one written by Mr. Fleishman, may well 
have been less expensive to print. But 
Mr. Fleishman's document of approxim-
ately one hundred pages took nowhere 
near the amount of staff time to prepare 
that Mr. Paros's of almost four hundred 
pages did. And it was not a personal 
defense or a long statement of personal 
educational philosophy, as was Mr. 
Paros's Report. It was what it was sup-
posed to be, a summary of the summer. 
True, the 1968 staff was not permitted 
to join in planning for the 1969 session. 
But they were retained to run a follow-up 
program for last summer's students. It is 
impossible to believe that the follow-up 
program did not suffer because of the time 
diverted to the writing of that voluminous 
report. 
Mr. Hallett errs again when he states 
that he was present at every meeting be-
tween Mr. Paros and me. This is absolute-
ly untrue. How does he know when I am 
with Mr. Paros? Mr. Hallet's clairvoyant 
abilities seem to have failed him here, 
for he is unaware of several talks I had . 
privately with Mr. Paros. And I am sorry 
to have to repeat again that Mr. Paros did 
in fact demand editing rights to my story; 
indeed, he and his two associates subjected 
me to continual harassment and went as 
far as to urge at one point that the entire 
story be eliminated "because it would only 
add to tensions." 
The rationale Mr. Paros, Mr. Hall and 
Mr. Miller used to justify their demand is 
a strange one in light of their oft-repeated 
concern for free dialogue. Mr. Hall ex-
plained to me that, in the free and 
open university they foresee, the press 
would }lave to work closely with news 
sources such as themselves reviewing 
finished stories before publication so as 
to be sure they approved of the impression 
that was to be conveyed to the public. 
Perhaps Mr. Hall calls his version of co-
operation a license for a free press; I prefer 
to call it control of the news, something 
hardly consistent with the "open uni-
versity." 
Another error lies in Mr. Hallett's de-
scription of relations between Mr. Paros 
and the Administrative Board. Mr. Paros 
did in fact refuse to attend not one but 
two Administrative Board meetings called 
to discuss his dismissal. He did not attend 
one because, as Mr. Hallett reports, he 
wished only to be there if Mr. Fleishman 
could attend. He refused to attend another, 
however, simply because that day be con-
sidered himself emotionally unable to go 
through the experience of discussing his 
dismissal. This is most unfortunate, but 
it does not give him the right to say he was 
denied the chance to state his case. 
Indeed, the second time Mr. Paros re-
fused to come, the Board directed its 
chairman, Richard Sewall, to request Mr. 
Paros to write a statement explaining his 
position. The Board has yet to receive the 
statement. 
Finally, I take strong exception to Mr. 
Hallett's view of the role the Yale Daily 
News has played. The statement that the 
News's coverage has not been biased is 
nothing short of extraordinary. Nowhere 
in any News story relating to the con-
troversy have I been able to find any state-
ment whatsoever that is unfavorable to 
Mr. Paros. True, the administration bas 
refused comment, but, as I stated above, 
that in no way means there is no other 
view to be investigated. Mr. Hallett claims 
he had access to the critical faculty an-
thology. Then. why were readers led to 
believe the faculty had aligned itself en-
tirely in Mr. Paros) favor? The anthology 
contains several essays opposing Mr. 
Paros's management o( the Summer High 
School, not simply the two I quoted. 
(Perhaps Mr. Hallett simply failed to read 
the anthology carefully-a possibility en-
hanced by the fact that he reports John 
Hildebidle termed his essay a personal 
polemic against Mr. Paros. A more care-
ful reading would inform Mr. Hallett that 
Mr. Hildebidle did not term his essay a 
personal polemic but only expressed fears 
that it might be taken as such by careless 
readers. It was in fact the most serious, 
conscientious and eloquent statement in 
the entire anthology.) 
Mr. HaJlett's piece de resistance is his 
claim that his coverage did not include 
personal attacks. If calling Richard Sewall 
a coward is not a personal attack, I call 
upon him to tell me what is. 
As to Mr. Hallett's discussion of his 
alleged collusjon with Mr. Paros. I find 
it rather lacking in evidence to disprove 
my charge. I am happy that fate shines on 
Mr. Hallett so brightly that he chanced 
to meet Mr. Paros on York Street at just 
the very moment he needed him, right 
after he had discussed my article with a 
New Journal copyreader, acting without 
authorization. Even if that meeting was 
just a coincidence, why was Mr. Hallett 
present on Aprill8 when Mr. Paros, Mr. 
Hall and Mr. Miller called me to their 
office to attempt to have the article 
changed? There is certainly no reason for 
an outside member of the press to have 
been at that meeting, and the way the 
afternoon turned out-Mr. Paros, Mr. 
Hall, Mr. Miller and Mr. Hallett all to-
gether defending the Summer High School 
and demanding changes in the story-
makes it difficult indeed to believe that 
Mr. Hallett was the unbiased reporter he 
claims he was. For at least those two and 
one half hours on April 18, Mr. HaJlett 
was not a reporter at all; he was another 
arm of the staff of the Yale Summer H igJl 
School. 
Mr. Hallett notes that "the meeting de-
generated because of understandably high 
emotions." I hasten to point out that, 
although I was the target of all four gentle-
men for the entire afternoon, the meeting 
did not degenerate because of my emo-
tions. It was Mr. Paros who, upon being 
challenged as to the ethics of preparing a 
four-hundred-page report in his defense, 
found it necessary to resort to name-call-
ing. H e then left abruptly and the meeting 
ended. 
Mr. Hallett claims that "a far better 
case could me made for collusion between 
Mr. Goldberger and Mr. Fleishman and 
Mr. Fanton." This, too, is an absolute 
untruth, and I suspect Mr. Hallett knows 
it, for he offers not a single word of sup-
porting evidence. 
The length required simply to correct 
Mr. Hallett's misstatement of fact is, I be-
lieve, an ample index to the strength of 
his argument. There remains no question 
in my mind that the Yale Summer High 
School was a flawed program. While its 
basic conception was excellent and well 
thought out, its execution left a great .deal 
to be desired. 
Administratively, the program was 
troubled not only by financial problems 
but by very serious discipline problems. 
Many sources reported the absence of Mr. 
Paros and of then Associate Director Paul 
Jefferson at times of crisis. One of last 
summer's students, now in Yale's Transi-
tional Year Program, emphasized that the 
basic concept of the program was valu-
able enough to make it a "great" summer, 
but added: "Larry Paros never asserted 
his authority. He let the kids run all over 
him. He never told it straight; he was a 
very bad administrator." Twenty-one of 
the thirty teachers whose evaluations are 
included in the anthology cite the adminis-
tt:ation's overly weak line on discipline. 
While Edgar Beckham may have liked the 
program's romantic attitude, I am more 
willing to trust the opinions of the faculty 
members who had to deal with the prob-
lems themselves. (By the way, Mr. :aeck-
ham and Edgar Friedenbreg were not, as 
Mr. Hallett stated, the only leading edu-
cators to visit YSHS. David Riesman 
visited also, and came away with a par-
ticularly unfavorable impression.) 
The program, then, was a failure ad-
ministratively. Nor was it a rousing suc-
cess academically. While students by and 
large did enjoy the program, any com-
petent educator would agree that the 
evaluations they prepared at summer's end 
for the Director's Report are hardly a 
valid means of making a final judgment on 
the program. As another former student 
told me, "Most of the kids were the type 
who would enjoy any program that gave 
them freedom." 
I made the point in my article that the 
good core concept was perhaps not ideal 
for the disadvantaged students Mr. Paros 
insisted upon having. It seems as though 
Mr. Paros agrees, for in the latest version 
of his Director's Report he admits that 
many problems resulted "from the fact 
that the Yale Summer High School was 
only a summer program," and that the 
"alienated" students he enrolled could 
not be dealt with in a summer. By this 
admission, Mr. Paros is in fact conceding 
the academic failure of his program. He 
claims the University lacked a "commit-
ment to solve the problems we addressed." 
But this is just the point: the problems Mr. 
Paros "addressed" were not the problems 
he was charged with addressing. The Sum-
mer High School was never designed to 
serve "problem" students, but rather those 
with college potential, because the Univer-
sity has known all along what Mr. Paros 
has just found out: simply, that alienated 
students cannot be dealt with in a summer. 
Thus the formation of the Summer High 
School as a program for underprivileged 
but "college-material" students, and the 
establishment of different programs, such 
as Upward Bound, for less promising 
students. 
J doubt that I will ever be able to con-
vince Mr. Hallett of the fallacy of charging 
Mr. Paros's dismissal to the Singer Report. 
We all agree that the Singer Report was 
not the real reason for the dismissal 
(though the other administration reason, 
the OEO requirement for a faculty direc-
tor, is indeed quite real), and I share Mr. 
Hallet's disapproval of the administra-
tion's refusal to discuss the full story. Yet 
I still maintain that it was a desire to pre-
serve Mr. Paros's reputation that resulted 
in the withholding of the information I 
presented. Furthermore, the Yale adminis-
tration, as would any institution in power, 
selfishly wanted to keep the issue quiet. I 
agree that this was an unwise policy. But 
let us not allow it to obscure the larger 
fact: that Lawrence Paros was a poor ad-
ministrator. 
!.recognize that my story was a one-
sided presentation; perhaps our error was 
really in the billing of it as the "fuli story." 
Yet it is the responsibility of a newspaper 
such as the News to provide the real full 
story, and it was Mr. Hallett's failure to do 
so that prompted my investigation into the 
other side of the controversy. I apologize 
for any errors I may have made (and par-
ticularly to Michael Frank, whom I did 
indeed quote without permission). But in 
the final review of the evidence, I see no 
reason whatsoever to change my conclu-
sions. I believe Lawrence Paros was 
wrong, and that Mr. Hallett, in what may 
indeed have beeq an honest and well-
meaning effort to defend him, abdicated 
the high standards of journalistic integrity 
traditionally associated with the Yale 
Daily News. 
Paul Goldberger


**Goodbye, hello**
**Author:  The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 15**

Goodbye, hello 
As The New Journal publishes its last 
issue for this academic year, we thought 
we'd announce that we will be back again 
in the fall. If any of our readers want to 
discuss article ideas or any other matter 
concerning the NJ over the summer, please 
call us at (212)-PLl-7219 


**Title: IHI Ylll SCHOll If IRIII RIPIRIORY IHIIIRI PRISIIIS**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

•
IHI Ylll SCHOll If IRIII 
RIPIRIORY IHIIIRI PRISIIIS 
aooki~rics by Arnold Weinstein 
Masic ., llliall BDICDII 
Dirstl q Paul Sills 
May B-24 lantila 512-1153 

