Publication date: May 18, 1973
Volume: six
Issue number: four


**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Ronald Roel, Joel Krieger
- Associate Editor: Gary Friedman
- Photography Editor: James Karageorge
- Design: Jim Uberman
- Consultant: John Kane
- Production: Andrew Elkind, Nina Glickson, Pam Gray, Alan Strasser
- Advertising: Brian Raub, Adam Meyerson
- Contributing Editors: George Kannar, Jonathan Marks, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Publisher: Stuart Rohrer


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Comment
- Eugene Ionesco: Gorgeous laughter--and after - Jonathan Marks
- Film is art is film
- The Accused
- Photographs by Wayne Kraft
- "I would miss India." - Paul R. Fleischman


**Title: My favorite is a film of 1903 called "Electrocuting the Elephant."**
**Author: (Unnamed)**
**Page number(s): 1**

My favorite is a film of 1903 
called "Electrocuting the Elephant." 
And that's exactly what happens, by 
God. They lead out this enormous 
elephant and there is a long shot of 
him, head on. And you look at this 
elephant and he's chained up and 
suddenly clouds of smoke come up 
from his feet and this great beast 
collapses and twitches-it's just an 
incredible piece of film. 
(see page 8)


**Title: "I would miss India."**
**Author: Paul R. Fleischman**
**Page number(s): 2**

In the street below, a bullock cart loaded 
with grain plods past the sugar cane 
crusher. The boys at the crusher feed the 
cane stalks through the press rapidly, 
turning out as much as they can. Dr. 
Khan and I are sitting at the table near 
the windows overlooking the street, pro-
longing breakfast tea, watching the 
people whose lives are not divided into 
weeks and who receive no benefit from 
the fact that today is Sunday. All day and 
all night every day, the street below this 
window is crowded, and thousands of 
lives flow past this window which frames 
a scene I have dubbed: the motion pic-
ture, "Bombay." Khanji and I are discus-
sing, as always, our two different worlds. 
"You mean there are no bullock carts 
at all in New York, not even in the poorer 
sections?" 
"It's just a different world. There's no 
real peasant culture. And god knows no 
domestic animals in the cities. You have 
to see it." 
"I would miss India," says Khanji, 
who is one of the few young Indian doc-
tors I have met who does not dream of 
moving to the States. Sun bathes the 
tenements across the street, where people 
live close with little privacy. A young 
woman on a balcony is tossing and comb-
ing her long black hair in the morning. 
We're off to Juju beach on "The magic 
bullock"-Khan's treacherous lambretta 
scooter that has had three flats in the past 
week. As a medical student on fellowship 
in India to learn about health-care sys-
tems, I am also learning about Indian 
hospitality and Indian transportation. 
One guarantees me an unending supply of 
attentive hosts, and the other ... at least a 
chance to be philosophical. We roll north 
through the city, along the edge of the 
Arabian Sea. On the sea side we pass a 
white mosque like a giant carving in 
ivory, with minarets and scallops above 
the windows-then a cove sheltering old 
fishing boats with sails curved like gull 
wings. But on our right is the city, and 
"hutments" of cloth or thatch or wood 
are pushed together on every margin of 
available land. When we pass a small pond 
where women are walloping wet clothes 
against the pavement, men are sun-
bathing in the sun, and little kids are 
defecating near the blooming lilies, I lean 
forward on the lambretta and shout 
above the wind into Khan's ear, 
"Bombay is the largest village in the 
world." 

When at last we arrive at the beach, I 
find myself grasping for a hold. The sub-
urbs through which we passed between 
the city and the beach, though new to 
me, seemed familiar: quiet streets, no 
hutments, small apartment buildings and 
private homes with Fiats parked in the 
driveways, palm trees towering above the 
mood of dust and comfort and silence. 
India, after all, is a name for a different 
view of the same round world. But now 
we are accosted by a woman and a child 
as we reach the sand. The woman wears 
the red-checked sari thrown over her right 
shoulder that shows her to be from 
Gujarat-a migrant to the city. She has no 
eyebrows. There are erratic pigment spots 
on her face. She has that slight rounding 
to her face, that slight flattening of her 
nose, that slight puffiness of her eyes, 
described as "Leonine." She and her child 
are begging, and I take note that her 
fingers and toes still look normal. 

Through the intended-to-embarrass din of 
her begging and her raucous caricature 
of humility, I have to remind myself over 
and over that the present sorrow is some-
times the best we can ever know. The 
woman has early leprosy. 

It is Sunday. We came here to go 
swimming. The leprous woman is almost 
instantly joined by dusky children hold-
ing up their hands, by men with monkeys 
on strings, vying for our attention and 
our coins. Who do you give your money 
to? How much? 

"Come on," says Khan, and we march 
through the food stands selling ice cream 
and spicy vegetables to the open beach. 
Warm sand worms intertoe. And we're in 
for a swim. I'm lucky. Salt water washes 
against me in rhythm, and the cold claws 
of the ocean wash away the heat and dust 
of our ride. 

We walk the beach; there are only 
handfuls of people dispersed thinly. 
Several monkey men wander aimlessly 
with no one to collect coins from. Two 
bearded men catch my eye. One is young 
and dark; the other is ancient, and he 
carries a brass pitcher of ocean water up 
the beach towards a pile of saffron cloth 
lying on the sand. Both men hunker 
down, naked except for loin cloths, 
warmed by the sun, muttering, tracing in 
the sand, sprinkling water. I would like to 
watch, but Khan clearly wants to leave 
them their privacy. 

"Your hippies," I kid him. 
"Not at all. How can you say that?" 
"Well ... They both follow a wandering 
life, with few demands ... They both place 
the ultimate values in their life on those 
experiences that transcend daily living." 
"These sadhus are the opposite of 
hippies." 

I am carried away, as if we are assess-
ing something I own: "Hippies are con-
sciously imitating Sadhus. They shake 
themselves awake from the dream. That's 
what the drugs are: an alarm clock. They 
want to sit up and see a reality that 
doesn't depend upon the rituals of con-
vention, that exists independently from 
specific conditions. Hippies want to be 
the Sadhus of the West." 
"That's the point, 'want to be.' These 
sadhus-or the real ones, anyway, not just 
the ganga addicts-are learned men. They 
don't disobey their parents; they don't 
take drugs and wander about with 
women; they go beyond the average men 
by discipline. And they are religious. This 
is their way of life. It is part of our coun-
try. They have not escaped from the 
rituals; they live them." 

Half the hippies are in India for the 
ganga, anyway. I know that. And I've 
heard Khan kid around about the Sadhus 
who live on ganga. And Khan is a Muslim, 
not a Hindu. I point out the tiny holes 
that pock the beach. A star-like pattern 
of sand grains extends out from each one. 
The mystery is solved when we see tiny 
sand crabs duck backwards into their 
holes as our shadows glide over them. I 
am thinking to myself: What can a hippie 
possibly say to the beggar woman whose 
toes will soon rot off? And what can they 
say to themselves? 

Sun and breeze match each other. It is 
perfectly comfortable; I feel part of the 
beach. With sudden delight, Khan points 
down: two large crabs, eight inches in 
diameter, are locked together and strug-
gling, claw on claw. Dr. Khan grabs each 
of them behind their front pinchers, and 
gently pulling, twisting, insisting, sepa-
rates them, and places them back on the 
sand. Watching him, I am reminded of his 
gentle force in the operating room. Sur-
prisingly, the two crabs neither scuttle 
away nor attack each other, but, with a 
strange swimming motion of their legs, 
they melt downward into the sand until 
only their sand-colored backs are un-
covered-yet perfectly blended with the 
beach. 

"Imagine how many we must walk 
over without being aware of it." 

As we look up, a flock of goats bobble 
past on their stick legs, ears flopping, 
ewes and kids led by the bearded. Two 
slender men in turbans walk behind. The 
scenario flows across the beach like a 
breeze. We watch, speechlessly, until 
goats and goatherds blend into the hori-
zon. As if resuming our breakfast conver-
sation, Khanji says, "This is what an 
Indian who settles in America would 
miss." 

Back at the beach house we have ice 
cream. Children approach us and hold out 
their hands pleading. I give away my 
coins and then the Gujarati woman with 
leprosy returns, hands outstretched. 
"This is what an Indian who settles in 
America would miss." 


**Title: Eugene Ionesco: Gorgeous laughter -and after**
**Author: Jonathan Marks**
**Page number(s): 3**

I arrived at 11 a.m. on the dot, just as we 
had arranged on the phone earlier in the 
week. Mustered up all the coffee-stoked 
courage I had, and pushed the bell. Long 
wait. No sound. I looked around. The top 
floor of a rather high-class Paris apart-
ment-house. Sunlight. Under the door-
bell, their nameplate: IONESCO. 

Then, finally, footsteps down the hall. 
The sound of the lock being opened from 
within. Then another lock. Two more. 
Finally the door swung open, and a very 
small woman stood in front of me in her 
bedclothes, squinting from the light. She 
had just awakened. 
"Madame Ionesco?" 
"Oui, Monsieur." 
"I'm here to speak with your husband. 
We have an appointment for 11 o'clock." 
She looked puzzled. I tried to clear 
things up. 
"Oh," she said, the light finally dawn-
ing, "you're the comedien! Weren't you 
supposed to come next Tuesday?" 
Damn, thought I. This was my last day 
in Europe; I couldn't have made it for 
Tuesday. She hovered for a minute be-
tween sending me away and inviting me 
in. Then: 
"Come in and sit down. I'll see if my 
husband can speak with you." 

A nondescript green armchair. The 
living room is filled with modern art: 
abstract, yet it is not itself a modern 
room. Ionesco appears at one door, disap-
pears through another. The maid walks 
through, looks around disapprovingly, 
and also disappears. 

Then Ionesco comes in to greet me. 
His pajama top is white, his pajama bot-
toms are purple. His robe is yet another 
purple. We are friends from the start. 
"So glad you were able to get hold of 
me," he said. "But weren't you supposed 
to come next Tuesday?" 

We retired to the study and sat down 
to chat. The room was lined with books. 
Not an "absurdist" library, I thought: too 
scholarly. The desk-top was full of rhino-
ceroses, of all sizes and textures. 
"You must love rhinoceroses," I ven-
tured. 
"Not very much, no. It's just that 
since I wrote the play everyone thought 
that I loved them, and all my friends 
started sending them to me. The same 
thing happened with The Chairs. Now 
when I'm in a room full of people and 
somebody uses the word 'chair' or 'rhino-
ceros,' everyone looks at me as if I had 
invented the chair and the rhinoceros. 
Won't you have a whiskey?" 

We re-retired into the living room, 
where the maid had set up a tray. I had to 
help him pour out his fruit juice and 
mineral water (good for the liver), be-
cause his right hand was in a cast. He 
explained that it had happened during his 
summer vacation in the Midi, when he 
had tried to ski down a staircase. 

There was a wild, contorted statue in 
the manner of Tsar that seemed to be a 
man in a funny hat on a sway-backed 
horse. The man's face was featureless, his 
body was twisted and lumpy. 
"C'est 
moi," he said. "The sculptor wanted to 
create the ultimate parody of the eques-
trian statue." I told him that the resem-
blances were striking--the eyes, the 
mouth, the arms, the bearing. We laugh-
ed. 

Ionesco laughs with his eyes and with 
his entire mouth, from diaphragm to lips. 
And the eyebrows--at once strikingly 
prominent yet seemingly lost in that great 
craggy plain of baldness--punctuating the 
laugh. Only the incredibly wide, flat nose 
anchors the other features down by stay-
ing still. All in all, a gorgeous laugh. 

It is late summer, 1967. In the spring I 
had played a leading role, Brother Tara-
bas, in the English-language world pre-
miere of his Hunger and Thirst at the 
Yale Dramat. The Polish critic Jan Kott, 
at that time a teacher at the Drama 
School, had admired the production and 
written Ionesco about it. When Kott 
heard that I would be in Paris on a Bates 
Fellowship he gave me the phone number 
and urged me to use it. I went to Paris 
and, needless to say, I didn't phone. You 
don't just call Ionesco and tell him you 
want to see him, do you? I stayed a 
month in Paris, I went to Avignon, to 
Geneva, to London, and then back to 
Paris for the last week before the return 
flight. And I still had the phone number. 
Well, I reasoned, Ionesco couldn't be 
all bad; when the Dramat had been ma-
king no discernible progress with his agents 
in the effort to get the rights to Hunger 
and Thirst, he had intervened personally 
on our behalf, for no fathomable reason. 
Since he'd been interested in our doing 
the play, he might possibly be interested 
in the production photos I'd brought 
with me. That's it. So I called, and offer-
ed to bring pictures. 

He stared hard at the photos. He quiz-
zed me about all sorts of details ... was 
there enough lighting for the brilliant 
fresh-air plateau in front of the museum 
in the second episode? ... where did all-
male college get its actresses?...what were 
the monks doing in these photos of the 
"Good Inn" of the third episode? 

I explained to him, somewhat tim-
orously at first, how much we had cut 
the scene and changed the order of lines 
to give it more direction. Far from being 
offended, he seemed pleased and interest-
ed, most of all in the gestures he saw the 
monks doing. I explained to him that we 
had differed radically in this respect from 
the earlier production at the Comidie-
Fran~aise. The monks were not mute 
mimes; they were given an active part in 
the interrogation-brainwashing-revival: 
prayers, imprecations, chants, black mass 
blasphemies. Nor were they rooted to the 
symmetrical Brechtian bleachers, as they 
had been in Paris; they swayed, they 
circled, they practically danced. Ionesco 
thought it was wonderful. He thinks it 
would have been better if the Comidie-
Fran~aise had done it that way. He 
wishes he had written it that way. He 
goes to tell his wife.



**A Meeting with Ionesco**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The playwright wanted to know about 
the director, Leland Starnes, about the 
actors, and about the general setup of the 
Dramat. In passing, I mentioned the lack 
of rehearsal time and the physical punish· 
ment the cast and crew went through to 
get this particular play on the stage. I 
started onto another subject, but he stop· 
ped me. 
"I am very touched," he said. 

Later, he was admiring a marvelous 
photo of the ghost of mad Aunt Ade· 
laide, who was played by a woman who 
had worked with the Dramat and other 
local theatres for thirty years. He asked 
about her. I told him that she had died 
within a month after the final curtain. He 
stared hard at the picture for thirty sec-
onds or so, then sat back, took off his 
glasses, and breathed. 

Still later in the day, while Ionesco 
was in another room, his wife. in a totally 
different context, mentioned a closemess 
that both of them feel to the actors who 
create his characters. It all fits in. That 
was why I was there. 

He worried about the reviews--much 
more than l would have thoU2ht. I ~ve 
him the Register's and the Providence 
Journal's. l helped him a little with the 
English. He actually reads it pretty well, 
though he doesn't speak it at all; the 
English lessons that led to The Bald So· 
prano apparently bore little fruit other 
than the play itself. He had been to A· 
merica several years before, visiting the 
cartoonist Saul Steinberg in New York. 
There were always lots of people around, 
but few of them spoke French or 
Rumanian (his second language; though 
born in Rumania, he had lived in France 
until age 13), so after a couple of days he 
stopped trying to communicate and just 
drank a lot and smiled at everyone and 
enjoyed himself immensely. 

We discussed Hunger and Thirst at 
length. Having worked so hard and lived 
so long with the play I felt reasonably 
confident, especially on the topic of the 
third episode, the black mass in which I 
had been the chief celebrant. He decided, 
on the evidence I gave him, that we had 
avoided the traps that German companies 
had f:.Llen into in their productions; we 
had made of the episode what he had 
intended: "an anti-Brechtian play in the 
style of Brecht." 

He has written a new episode for the 
play. He'Ll keep on writing new ones, he 
says. If you want to produce the play, just 
pick your three favorites. 

I described a recent Silliman College 
production of The Bald Scprano in which 
the director had done various violences to 
the play: in the ftrst scene the Smiths had 
read the lines directly from the Grove 
Press edition while watching The FBI on 
TV; the Fire Chief had masturbated dur-
ing the maid's recitation of her poem 
'1'he Fire"; and so on. lonesco listened. 
He questioned, he puzzled, and he laugh· 
ed. Surprisingly, he seemed disturbed 
about the television; twenty years ago, 
when the play was written, one would 
hardly have expected to fmd a TV in a 
typically English home. l pointed out 
that one doesn't worry about anachro· 
nisms when one puts on lonesco. lonesco 
wa.c; content. 

We talked. And talked. Without order 
sometimes. We leaned in to work out 
intricacies; we leaned back to laugh. I got 
drunk. 

The question of literary influence 
came up. He feels that he is entirely with· 
in the historical line of French writers--es-
pecially jn that he revolts against all of 
them. While contemporary European 
playwrights do keep interested and in· 
formed about each other's work, he hard· 
ly feels their effect on him could properly 
he called an influence; it's too superficial. 
KafKa, for example. did influel'\ce 
him-but he didn't feel it until a dozen 
years after reading Kafka. 

We spoke about the other playwrights 
of modern France, and the productions 
of their plays then appearing in Paris; we 
had seen many of the same plays. We had 
even been at Avignon at about the same 
time--but I had been attending the Festi· 
val (the most important summer event in 
French theatre) and Ionesco had just 
been walking around the town looking 
for the narrowest streets. He had been 
invited to the Fe-stival to act the part of 
the- father in Philippe Adrien's La Baye, 
but he had declined because of worry 
about his health. We touched on Beckett, 
Genet, Sartre, de Ghelderode, Arrabal, 
Adamov, and Obaldia, among others. He 
feels that the "absurdist" revolution of 
the early ftfties was the work of Beckett, 
Pinter and himself--but actually, he ad· 
mits, he is not really familiar with Pinter's 
plays; only a few of them have been 
translated, and still fewer have been pro· 
duced in Paris. He seems to feel much 
closer to Samuel Beckett, though. They 
don't see each ether t00 often, but seem 
to keep in touch. Ionesco admires him 
immensely. 

He tells a story. Beckett has be-en 
working on a new play for a year. The 
curtain goes up, revealing what looks like 
a man half-submerfed in muck and gar· 
bage. He stares out toward the audience 
for a moment, then (and here lonesco 
demonstrates) heaves a great long sigh. 
Curtain. But, says Ionesco, Beckett is not 
yet satisfied with the play; it's still too 
long. 

Strange. I fmd myself talking about 
Ionesco in the third person while talking 
to him across his coffee table. He doesn't 
seem to mind. Sometimes he takes it up, 
more often he speaks of the theatre of 
Ionesco in the first person. Sometimes 
what he says would appear immodest or 
downright boastful, but something in his 
manner announces that matters of pride 
are fairly irrelevant with lonesco. At mo-
ments he may be touchy and defensive, at 
other moments self-denigrating, but final-
ly he ends up dispersing the whole prob· 
lerr. with that laugh. In lonesco's Victims 
of Duty the poet Nicolas d'Eu announces, 
in effect, "No, I don't write at all, and 
I'm proud of it. It would be useless; we 
already have lonesco and lonesco. That's 
eno~h." The man asks to be laughed at, 
and with. 

A couple of times my French breaks 
down. I try to ask him a complex ques-
tion and he doesn't get what I'm driving 
at. I try again and he answers me in the 
most elementary terms. I change the 
subject ~nd feel foolish. Very sobering. 

We talked a great deal about politics. I 
hadn't expected that a playwright so 
opposed to engage theatre should be so 
conscious of it--but it all fit into place, 
eventually. It seems that he has been 
haunted by the idea of totalitarianism. 
World War II is never far from his 
thoughts, and its monoliths pervade his 
dreams. His writing is often a purgation 
of these nightmares, as it was for KafKa. 
Arrabal is similarly tortured by the 
father-figure of his native Spain, btlt 
Ionesco would have him give even freer 
rein than he does already to his va.rious 
panics. Through subjective theatre, 
lonesco feels, one can reach a high degree 
of universality. 

He is soon to have an article published 
suggesting that Americans not be so sen· 
sitive to foreigrt criticism-especially 
Fren-ch. De Gaulle, he says, represents 
and leads that considerable faction of 
Frenchmen who resent the fact that the 
United States has twice saved France, and 
so ignore the fact and blame the U.S. for 
anything and everything. Such countries, 
as he sees it, not only force America to 
stand alone in defense of the entire free 
world against totalitarianism, but also are 
making Americans doubt that their stand 
is just. Vietnam, he readily admits, is 
bothersome to the extreme--but he 
doesn't know what else the U.S. could 
have done. 

We touch on Yale, contemporary 
America, my life, my plans. My immedi· 
ate plan was a 4:00 flight back to the 
States. Two hours away.l would need 
lunch, n 'est-ce pas? And so came lunch·, 
in several quite agreeable courses. Just the 
three of us, me at the head of the table. 
Ionesco worried about his diet, his liver, 
his medicine. He looked at his plate help· 
lessly; his wife noticed, got up and tod· 
dled around behind me, and cut his meat. 
He put his broken hand on the table and 
grumbled disgustedly, "I'm just like an 
infant." 

This and that were discussed. Mme 
Ionesco entered in a great deal. She's very 
pleasant. She keeps the files: reviews, 
letters, photos and such. Shr keeps things 
going. Her first language was Rumanian. 
In a fit of astonishing largesse and bene· 
volence, I congratulated her on her practi· 
cally perfect French accent. Perhaps a fit 
of whiskey and red wine. 

After the main course Mme lonesco 
stepped on a button she had plugged in 
Wlder the table before the meal, and a 
buzzer rang in the kitchen for the maid. 
After a few minutes she buzzed again. 
After a few more minutes she cleared the 
table herself and brought on the che"ese 
and yogurt. Around peach time the doc-
tor came to give lonesco his daily shot. 
It was over. I gulped down the peach 
and stood. lf I were a Pataphysician-a 
follower of the non-philosophy of the 


**Doonesbury: From Yale to Syndication**
**Author: Ronald Roel**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

One nlaht In the aprlna of 1967, 
Carry Trudeau ut down to write a comic 
atrlp for Th1 R1cord, Yale'a humor maa· 
azlne, whoae humor waale11 eluaJve Jn 
thoae daya. It wu a frlvoloua Idea. He 
had al~ya wanted to be a writer, not a 
cartoonlat. Yet he waalntrlaued with 
the drawlnp of Jules Peiffer, particularly 
with one character named 11Bernard," 
a little neb blah who apent a areat deal of 
hli time feelina-lnadequate. Trudeau waa 
a freahman; the battle crlea of Davenport 
mlxen were clear In hla mind. 

Trudeau flnlahed the atrlp In four 
houra. It wu terrible. The charactera 
were 
11atyllzed, the art waa bad." He put 
1t away for a year. After a sophomore 
year marked by frustration and a acn10 
of aelf·trapdy, Trudeau picked up hla 
aketchea apln. He boaan to develop the 
charactera of Mike "tho Man" Dooneabury 
and B.D., a football quarterback/myth 
~:t.IDI~.., baaed on Brian Dowllna. Theae two 
"The conundrum of l~fe is how 
to grab it by the hanu'!e. Failing 
that, it's often nice to spena a 
sunny day just sitting 1n a pud-
dle and thinking on my passton.r; 
Kool-Aid and model airplane glue.
11 
Zonker Harri1 
I' 
qulnteaaentlal Yallea, Mike the Man and 
B.D., appeared the next fall In a Yalt 
Dtllly N1w1 comic atrlp called bull ta/11. 
It waalmmedlatoly popular, and by the 
time the Dowllna·Hlll ora ended, the 
quarterback hlmaclf would write: "Jt aot 
to the point where J waa anxloua to aee 
what I had done the day before. I even 
became hesl,ant to ao on a road trip untU 
laaw what 'bullta/11 movea• to uae at 
one of our aliter achoola." 

When Trudeau araduated and trana-
formed bull ta/11 Into the lnttrnatlonally 
ayndlcated Doont~bury comic atrlp, many 
Yallea continued to claim him for Yale 
before Cod and Country. That Trudeau 
waa aood aa a ayndlcated cartoonlat waa 
never In queatlon; the point of contention 
. waa whether Trudeau had taken the edae 
orr hla humor by broadenlna the acope · 
of hla comlca to appeal to a mau audience. 
It Ia a aubtle and aore point for many who 
jealoualy suard bulltfflll aa part of the 
Yale Experience. After all, who but a 
Yale man could r1ally appreciate the 
fruatratlona and fantaalea of Mike the Man 
Dooneabury? 1t waa too cloae to home. 

He eontlnuea to draw on Yale for hls 
material, but hla characters-even B.D.·· 
have loat their major tlca to Yale. Hla 
problem Ia no lonaer to expreu the 
aenalbllltlea of pre-coeducation Yale men, 
but to broaden atereotypea Into charae-
tera, to explore the posalbllltlea of Jan· 
auaae, and to defy momentary conaldera· 
tlon··to create a comlc atrlp that capturea 
the attention and lmaaJnatlon of the 
predominantly non-Yale readen who rip 
throuah the comlca section every day. 

On the one hand, Trudeau doean't want 
to be a cartoonJat all hla life. Cartoonists 
are a very Jnarown aroup whote aole paa-
alon uaually la cartoonlna; that's why they 
don't object to obacenely lona contracta. 
Trudeau wUI be dolna Doont~bury until 
he Ia at lout 34. That wu the ahorteat 
contract he could pt. On the other hand, 
he conaldera It a prlvlleae to be able to 
alt down at the drawlna board every day 
and work out hla fantaalea before 18 
mllljon readen. 


Garret B. Trudeau, as he is hardly ever 
called, has always thrived on a strong 
heritage of fantasy. His formative years 
were spent on a farm in New York-- "it 
was a real Christopher Robin existence. 
I was well schooled in fantasy and Beatrix 
Potter." He feels that his early experience 
instilled him with a profound respect for 
nature. One of his most poignant mem-
ories was the Faulknerian test of his 
manhood: a caribou hunt in New-
foundland. 

After four days of rain and misery, 
Trudeau canoed into a cove, the skies 
parted and a lone caribou walked out into 
the clearing. It was a God-sent vision. 
Trudeau killed it, only with a great deal 
of anguish. He has not hunted since. 

Trudeau has had endless fantasies con-
cerning his own athletic prowess, and has 
played out a lot of these fantasies with 
Brian Dowling, although the two never 
were friends and neither has any real 
impression of the other. Trudeau remem-
bers being amazed as he watched Dowling 
one day weaving in and out of cars speed-
in~ down Elm Street. Another day he 
spted on Dowling cashing a check at the 
Co-op. The only time they actually met 
was when Trudeau came to Dowling's 
room to pick up the quarterback's intro-
duction to the ftrst collection of bull 
tales. The conversation went something 
like this: 

Dowling: I really enjoy your cartoons. 
Where did you get the idea to do some-
thing like that? 
Trudeau: Oh, l don't know, where did 
you get the idea to play football? 

And that was about it. 

The critical point in Trudeau's career 
seems to have been the summer before his 
junior year at Yale. He had spent most of 
the previous year mourning the end of a 
romance; his confidence was low. Toward 
the end of the Spring term, he got to-
gether with three friends, one of whom 
began to mention casually the idea of · 
putting out a magazine during the sum-
mer, in say, Washington, D.C. Things got 
serious. The idea was to start a tri-lingual 
magazine (English-French-Spanish) for 
the diplomatic corps in Washington. Sort 
of a New York magazine, pointing out 
the positive aspects of Washington life for 
those of foreign cultures. They split up 
the assignments. Then they took an Al-
legheny flight down to the Capital to 
investigate the magazine's prospects, the 
three of them in jackets and ties and 
white shirts--Trudeau in a pink shirt; he 
was the art director. They researched 
their assignments, flew back to New 
Haven, typed up reports, and made final 
plans. 

That summer--while the Poor People's 
campaign and Resurrection City scared 
people away from Washington-the four 
of them put out a 24-page bi-weekly 
magazine. They slept three hours a night. 
Collectively, they lost 70 pounds. One 
night, when the publisher had decided to 
Volume six, number four I May 18, 197316 
take a short nap, he was awakened with, 
"Bruce, it's time for dinner ... " and 
promptly bolted up, saying "Dinner, 
dinner, file under D." 

Gra phicatly, the magazine wasn't 
great. But the four were caught up in the 
spirit and the process; by the end of the 
summer they had 85 volunteers working 
for them. Trudeau returned to Yale with 
confidence, despite the fact that one of 
his friends owed-and still owes-him $400. 

The bull tales that began appearing the 
next fall were simple, formula- oriented: 
Doonesbury (at a mixer, dancing with 
a girl, smile on his face), thinking: Well, 
here I am at my first mixer, and quite 
obviously about to score. It won't be long 
before we start on up to my room. 
(Tall upperclassman comes over.) 
Upperclassman: Hey Frosh! What do 
you say you go take a look at the new 
Coke machine! 
Doonesbury: Oh yeah, sure. That's 
rich ... the Coke machine·, right, the new 
Coke ~chine, that's a laugh, ha, ha. 
Doonesbury (alone, on his knees, 
looking at the Coke machine): Actually, 
it's quite tricky the way it works. 
(Actually, this was one of a few true 
incidents Trudeau adapted for his strips. 
It happened to his freshman roommate, 
only it was a milk machine.) 

The characters were archetypal. The 
women were merely props for Mike's 
frustrations. The quality of the draw" 
iilg was only fair, sometimes inconsistent. 
Often, he didn't draw in the mouths of 
characters and continued not to do so 
until one day he got a letter from a man 
in San Fransisco who enclosed a whole 
batch of Doonsbury cartoons with the 
mouths of characters drawn in. "You 
see how much better they are," he wrote. 
But bull tales was entertaining--and at 
a sobering place like Yale, where self-
flagellation occasionally hits peaks like 
Mayday, 1970--it was a welcome relief. 

Some people may have criticized him for 
modelling his drawings after Feiffer and 
his reader-character interactions after 
Schultz's Peanuts, but the verdict remain-
ed: Trudeau was capturing the sensibility 
and mood of Yale with an incisive humor; 
people were waiting for The Yale Daily 
News, wondering if bull tales would be 
good today. 

Since Trudeau first began writing 
about Michael J. Doonesbury, there has 
been a constant but unconscious evolu-
tion in the character of Mike the Man. 
Doonesbury still experiences many of the 
same anxieties, but no longer in hyper-
bolic ways. He is m\lch calmer, much 
more able to deal with the world. He has 
mellowed. "I've found whole new ways 
of being rejected," says Trudeau, "far less 
simplistic." 

Trudeau's campus radical, (Mega-
phone) Mark Slack meyer, has also mel-
lowed. •1'he original Mark was my super-
ficial reaction to going through Yale 
t.lllt~P, 
yO() ()I,' 
HIPP~ '/DI). 
I 
**Doonesbury's Trudeau: A Study in Communication**
**Author:  [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Volume six. number four I May 18. 19731 7 
Station and seeing men I knew saying 
'power to the people; 'right on,'" says 
Trudeau. "It was self-serving, therapeutic 
rhetoric; it took on a whole life of its 
own ... and Mark became an unsympa-
thetic stereotype in direct parody of what 
went on." But Mark no longer is the 
self-indulgent activist; he has become 
more honest with himself, more aware of 
where a thoughtful radical may go after 
he comes down from the initial rush of 
activism. Trudeau has dropped the 
• "megaphone" before Mark's name--he 
hasn't used it in two years. 


Trudeau seems to feel that he himself 
has mellowed along with his characters. 
He is no longer the "man of extra-
ordinary inaction at mixers"; no longer 
just a member of the class of 1970: the 
class that threatened the stability of 
senior societies during Mayday; Inky 
· Oark's first class, the class that was told 
it would be "different from all the pre-
ceding classes." Trudeau seems to be a 
condensation of his characters, growing 
subtler, more complex, while still possess-
ing an incisive understanding of what is 
on peoples' minds. 


Perhaps some of the changes within 
Trudeau have been externalized in the 
character of Zonker Harris, one of the 
citizens of his Walden Commune who 
came into the strip two years ago as a 
tight end of the football team. "Zonker 
represents a very profound sense of char-
acter, a whole new sensitivity not in 
Mike," says Trudeau. "He's very fragile, . 
but he doesn't take himself seriously." 
Zonker seems unencumbered by social 
forces; he is concerned with the immedi-
ate environment. Very small things make 
up his fantasy world and he is easily 
bruised when someone takes them away. 
He feels a tremendous responsibility 
toward the animals around Walden (last 
Christmas he tried to convince a squirrel 
to hibernate) but never with any eco-
logical sense of duty. 


B.D. can yell at Zonker; it won't 
faze him. When he drops B.D.'s pass in 
the championship game and the team 
loses, B.D. hunts him down but Zonker 
finally meets him with a Christmas 
present. Trudeau thinks Zonker dropped 
the pass on purpose. 


For Trudeau, the comic strip has be 
cc.me a study of communication and lack 
of communication-among the characters 
themselves as well as among the char-
acters, the cartoonist, and the readel's. 
Last year he wrote a series on Bernie, a 
weird biology freak with a seven-year-old 
genius girlfriend who brings him egg salad 
sandwiches to calm his nerves during 
nitroglycerin experiments. Trudeau had 
Bernie walking around with an invisible 
ftle cabinet, the point being that Bernie 
deals with everything on an empirical 
level; he thinks everything can be fated. 
Trudeau's editor sent the strips back and 
told Trudeau that he just couldn't share 
those ideas with the rest of America. 


But Trudeau continues to be intrigued 
Hlll:r! 
stDf,'r, 
slltJOT· 
\ 
by the possibiJities of dialogue within the 
four-frame gag panel of conventional 
comic strips. 


He recognizes that all he has is a five-
second gag. Nevertheless, he constantly 
finds himself fighting against tempta-
tions to be superficial, to be ethnic for 
the sake of "relevance" (the original 
publicity for Doonesbury was "those 
campus cutups and the campus capers"). 
"You just have to be as honest as you 
can"-he says. "As soon as you become 
obsequious or 'relevant' you become dis-
honest." Trudeau never takes out or 
changes the names in his satires on com-
mercial products. At times, there are un-
predictable benefits to this policy: Mack 
trucks once sent him a gold-plated 
' phone handle with a Mack bulldog 
on it after he used their brandname in 
one comic strip. 


Although Trudeau says he does not 
want to be a cartoonist all his life, he has 
managed to get his cartooning down to a 
regular business schedule. He keeps six 
weeks ahead of his daily strip, working on 
his cartoons about fifteen hours a week 
· while being a freshman counselor and a 
student in graphic design at the Yale Art 
•and Architecture School. Two syndicates 
promote his strip at horne and abroad: it 
. now runs in about 200 papers in nine 
different countries. 


But working for the syndicates re-
mains a more volatile business for 
Trudeau than one might suspect. For one 
pung, there are 350 syndicated cartoons 
in the country and they are all in direct 
competition with each other-meaning 
that when your strip goes in a newspaper, 
someone else's goes out. It tends to be-
come a personal business rather quickly. 


For another thing, American cartoon 
strips tend to be conservative, usually 
three years behind the major social forces 
in society. So a social satirist like Trudeau 
is bound to stir a great deal of anxiety 
and emotions among newspaper editors. 


Occasionally, newspapers decide not to 
run his cartoons: The Los Angeles Times 
dropped his series on President Nixon 
visiting Watts; the Akron papers would 
not run his series on Kent State. And 
while Trudeau maintains that his cartoons 
are primarily of entertainment value, 
regardless of how political people think 
he is, he defends the right of a paper to 
drop (but never edit) his cartoons when it 
feels the subject matter is too contro-
versial. The most recent conflict for 
Trudeau rsulted from a series he wrote on 
former Presidential advisor John Ehrlich-
man. The series (part of which appears on 
these pages of The New JoU17Ulf) was 
written before the Watergate case had 
blown apart, but was scheduled to appear 
the first week in May , after the pre-
viously almost unheard of Ehrlichman 
became a well-known public figure . 
Trudeau had to scrap the entire series, 
although some of the strips will appear 
later in revised forms. With the Watergate 
proceedings still going on. Trudeau's 
subject is just too hot to handle right 
now-especially on top of his coming 
series about Zonker getting basted in 
Texas.e 



**Film is art in film**
**Author: Andrew Elkind**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

An Interview by Andrew Elkind 
Standish Lawder's basement is a riot 
of miniature switches, wires and ustltu 
mechanical devices. It is also the work-
shop of a highly inventive independent 
filmmaker, and hidden among the wires 
and gadgets are full projection facilities, 
thousands of feet of film and a home-
made optical printer capable of infinit-
IJ 
111 a vast range of visual effects. 
Lawder's activities represent a high-
•ntensity collage of film theory and prac-
tice. As a film theorist, he initiated the 
study of film at Yale, where he taught 
popular introductory courses in film 
history and experimental film. He is cur-
rently on leave from his position as 
Associate Professor of History of Art, and 
during the past year has served as the film 
Luke Professor of Film Studies at Har-
vard. As a filmmaker, Lawder has re-
ceived widespread recognition and nu-
merous prizes and awards for his films, 
among them Necrology, Dangling Parti-
ciple, Corridor and Raindance. With the 
aid of the Guggenheim Foundation and 
the American Film Institute, he will ex-
periment next year with 70 mm stereo-
scopic cinematography. 

As we began our conversation, Lawder 
leaned back in his chair and lit up a Gau-
loise. Surrounded by wires, adapters and a 
host of electromechanical servants, he 
spoke of the film process and the process 
of his own film-making. 

When you first get into film you have 
a general "man-on-the-street" working 
definition of what film is, and it cor-
responds pretty closely to "The Movies." 
The more you get into it, you find that 
some of the most extraordinary, exciting, 
powerful films are not movies at all. 
They're records, documents and experi-
ments. Anything and everything can go 
on film and it needn't be packaged 
along the lines of a dramatic structure of 
90 to 160 minutes. 

Film arrived before anybody knew 
what to do with it. There were no rules 
and it wasn't necessarily dramatic or 
comedy, or adventure or Western. It was 
just this magical recording device, and 
anything that was interesting, mysterious 
or sensational was fit subject matter. 
What you have, in fact, is experimental 
film. Filmmakers experimenting, trying 
to find situations that come alive most 
vividly on film. That first decade is full of 
fantastic stuff. 

My favorite is a film of 1903 called 
"Electrocuting the Elephant ... And that's 
exactly what happens, by God. It's about 
a minute long, terrible photographic qual-
ity, very flatly and gray, and the res-
toration is so bad it jittles all over the 
screen. But what happens is this: they 
lead out this enormous elephant and 
there is a long shot of him, head on. And 
you look at this elephant and he's chained 
up and suddenly clouds of smoke come up 
from his feet and this great bent col-
lapse and twitches--it's just an incredible 
piece of film. 

>) 

In your own film-making, you've made 
explicit use of some of these remarkable 
pieces of found footage [shots and scenes 
taken directly from other films]. I'm 
thinking particularly of Dangling Parti-
ciple and Construction Job, which you 
constructed without using a camera at 
all. Film, more than any other art, 
seems to offer this opportunity for 
incorporating portions of pre-existing 
works into new products. 

Well, found footage filmmaking is 
roughly analogous to a process of collage 
or the art of assemblage, where the artist 
regards the entire visual information 
environment of secondary images: news-
papers, video, film and so forth. We're 
totally surrounded by images which refer 
to the real world but in themselves con-
stitute a kind of secondary and purely 
illusionistic arsenal. And they are as much 
a part of the environment as nature is. 

The use of this material, it seems to 
me, is perfectly valid. It's what a lot of 
artists in static media have done--select-
ing, arranging, editing, composing and so 
forth. All an artist does, it seems to me, is 
make decisions about what is in and what 
is out and at a very stupid, basic level this 
is the nature of his activity--though it 
doesn't explain why or what comes out 
of it. When I'm working with images, I 
don't make a distinction between a piece 
of film I've shot, somebody else has shot, 
somebody has shot for an entirely differ-
ent purpose, a piece of footage I shot a 
long time ago and am now using for an-
other purpose or an image that can be 
absolutely reworked by any number of 
systems. But of course I don't make films 
like most filmmakers. I don't go out into 
the real world with a camera, gather a lot 
of images, and then assemble them to tell 
a story about what was out there. That's 
just not my avenue. 

I've been working with film for a long 
time and in the process have accumulated 
an enormous stash of junk footage. 
People lay it on me all the time. They see 
my films and later come to me with a 
stack of films that came out of their 
grandparents' attic. I just tend to accumu-
late that stuff. 

I see two pretty distinct tendencies in 
your work. To a large extent your collage 
films function in terms of their inform-
ation content. But films like Corridor and 
Raindance work in an entirely different 
way. 

Yes, films such as Corridor or Rain-
dance operate in terms of energy. They 
also deal with information but it is infor-
mation in the communication engineer's 
sense of it, that is, items of sensory input, 
data, binary bit patterns, signal-value 
ratios. Which is another way of saying 
energy, right? And that has just been a 
large concern of mine for a long time--the 
way the eye and the mind can be stimu-
lated by forcing them into a situation of 
high-speed information processing, by 
implanting patterns of energy as power-
fully and rapidly as possibly. 

Haven't you been involved in a num-
ber of experiments which have explored 
aspects of the visual process? 

In 1960 I had just gotten out of 
Army, I was studying art history in Mu-
nich, and I met a remarkable, brilliant 
man named Dr. Max Knoll. He's been 
recognized by many people as being one 
of the most extraordinary creative minds 
of science in the twentieth century. 

Among his accomplishments was the 
invention, by and large, of the electron 
microscope. He did that way back in the 
20's and 30's, and then wandered off into 
other things. He was a physicist but also 
very interested in psychiatry, art, and a 
lot of other activities-- he was a very 
Faustian character. He was also very 
much a Jungian, and during the last ten 
years of his life was concerned with the 
concept of formal patterning, that is, 
images corresponding to archetypal con-
figurations inherent in some mental pro-
cess or structure of the brain. He investi-
gated enormous quantities of art of var-
ious sorts--folk art, primitive art, child-
ren's art, art of the insane, art of dreams--
in an attempt to categorize them accord-
ing to Jungian archetypal configurations 
of form. He began working with neuro-
physiologists at the Munich Mental 
Health Institute and discovered that when 
you passed carefully controlled, very low 
voltage pulses of electricity through the 
brain, it would excite visual patterns 
involuntarily. With your eyes closed, in a 
dark room, with black goggles on, with 
this electrical stimulation you could very 
clearly perceive patterns of light. And 
they took various forms according to--
well that was the question--according to 
what? According certainly to measurable 
factors like voltage control and wave 
configurations, amplitudes, but also 
apparently according to some sort of 
interface between that pulse and some 
characteristic of the circuitry of the 
brain, which varied according to 
different individuals. 

There's an issue here that really fasci-
nates me and is very close to film. If you 
regard film as a process, film starts with 
the real world, then, it's put on celluloid 
and processed through various machines 
and finally ends up on a strip that goes 
through a projector. But it doesn't stop 
there--it goes onto the screen and comes 
back into your eye. So there is a total 
circuit of connections. It has to do with 
how the eye thinks, and how the brain 
sees, and how you accommodate images 
and how you process that visual infor-
mation. 

While I was working on Raindance, I 
became involved with an experiment that 
was being developed over at Connecticut 
Mental Health Center by two psychia-
trists, Dr. George Henniger and Dr. Walt 
Brown, who are interested in the use of 
film to generate emotions within a con-
trolled clinical (experimental) situation. 
The experiment was, primarily to moni-
tor the physiological responses that ac-
company emotion which is, in this case, 
triggered by film. 

They were attempting to identify 
precisely what takes place in the body, in 
the mind, when we experience fear, de-
pression, anxiety and so forth. They went 
through the entire system of monitors 
that medicine has developed--
electroencephalograms, analysis of blood 
chemistry, simple things like respiration, 
heart beat, galvanic skin response ... 

Anyway, they called me up and asked 
me for suggestions on films that would 
trigger emotions. I started working with 
them on this project and I was fascinated 
by it, because it conformed pretty closely 
to a view of film that I have. I see a film 
as a phenomenon that really gets inside 
your mind, inside your body, and does 
things to you. That's what is interesting 
about film. Why is it we react with de-
light, fear, apprehension, fascination, 
whatever, by looking at this pattern of 
light and objects and images? 

When I was working on Corridor I got 
interested a lot in the potential interface 
between film as an energy system and the 
central nervous system and particularly 
the way in which--or the extent to which--
film as a system of pulses of energy could 
interlock and could drive the brain into 
an alpha wave mode. 

That brought me back full circle to 
those experiments I had been working on 
a decade ago. I saw their laboratory as a 
check-out station for some of these ideas. 
I gave them a print of Raindance and 
worked with subjects, wiring them up and 
reading from the polygraph which came 
out of the electroencephalogram. I found 
it quite amazing that here is a system 
which gives you a kind of instant readout, 
a graph, a chart, of exactly what is hap-
pening. It records very directly what is 
happening very immediately. 

One very specific goal in Raindance 
was the exploration of illusionary color--
the way the eye will perceive colors that 
are not on the screen, colors that come 
about through after-images or through 
retinal mixing. And to check out the 
energy level of the brain as it accommo-
dates and processes that information at 
that precise moment, just seems to me 
really interesting. 

The funny thing about those experi-
ments is that they simply confirmed my 
intuitions in the making of the film. I, 
frankly, did not find them very helpful as 
a source of information which informed 
my decisions--they simply told me I was 
on the right track and when I thought 
interesting things were happening, damn 
it, they were. 

Raindance is a very demanding film. 
The first time I saw it I was bored and got 
a headache. But I found it extraordinarily 
interesting--and much more enjoyable--
on second viewing. 

Part of that problem is that we think 
so little about how we are thinking when 
we watch a film that we react to the film 
automatically according to a backlog of 
conditioned experience. 

Now in a film like Raindance, ques-
tions--like where are we going? how is this 
going to end?--very often blanket out a 
perception of the fundamental experience 
of the film itself. Not where is it going or 
what is going to happen but rather--what 
is happening. Most films engage the mind 
primarily through suspense. We wonder 
about how they're going to turn out, how 
this character is going to develop, how 
the plot will work out, how the loose 
ends are coming together. We are actively 
engaged in the film by speculating on its 
resolution. 

That conditioned experience which we 
call "The Movies" has for so long been 
defined in terms of this fundamental 
question: what is going to happen? In-
stead of what is happening. But there are 
other films, like Raindance, that you can 
only get the barest glimpse of the first 
time through. In the first screening you're 
wondering about what is going to happen 
instead of being able to pay attention to 
what is happening. 

"Movies" are intended to function 
primarily within an entertainment situa-
tion. Film, as movies, are defined pri-
marily as one-shot situations. They ex-
haust themselves the first time through, 
they're expendable commercial com-
modities. Now I don't think that need 
be, or at least that doesn't particularly 
interest me. I'm interested very much in a 
lot of films that I want to look at again 
and again and again. You see more and 
more each time, you learn more and 
more each time, you learn more about 
your own process and pattern of percep-
tion each time. This seems to me a 
fairly fundamental redefinition of 
film and of course it is closer to a tra-
dition of painting, a much more serious 
tradition of art. That is, something 
that renews itself each time, reveals 
more of itself each time, and is in fact 
a matrix, a layer of information, sen-
sations, evocations and ideas that cannot 
be perceived the first time. 

Isn't there a problem getting people to 
see a film more than once? 

It seems to me that's a problem of film 
distribution, a problem that's built into a 
tradition of film exhibition, rather than 
being a fundamental fact of the medium 
itself. I think a more important fact of 
film is the extraordinary richness of the 
medium itself. After all, it can be worked 
with in a way that the experience quite 
literally becomes new on second and 
third and fourth viewing. A film that is 
rich enough, or strong enough, doesn't 
exhaust itself the first time. 

I really liked the short animation se-
quence at the beginning of Raindance. 
Where did you get that footage? 

It's from a British animation film, 
called, I think kind of appropriately, 
"The History of Cinema," a little cartoon 
of a classroom or instructional film on 
the history of cinema. I was looking at it 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
one night--Ilook at a Jot of fJ.Jms like that 
with the sound off, because the sound 
gets in the way if you're interested in the 
image. I liked that one sheet of rain that 
came down, I liked its pattern, I liked its 
gesture, I liked the counterpoint of the 
busy activity of the raind!ops with that 
rather beautiful sweep of the wipe. So 
when I first saw 1t I jumped up and stop-
ped the projector and took that film and 
printed out that one little piece. Then I 
looped it and started playing with it, 
printing it on high contra_st and adding 
color and alternating negative and po-
sitive frames and doing all those things 
that went into the making of Raindance. 
I worked on Raindance for a year. 
First of all I didn't know where I was 
going. Quite literally, I would work in 
that film by taking a piece of footage, 
inspecting it, speculating on what was 
interesting about that particular segment 
and asking myself now if that's good, 
what's next? And then I would combine 
it with something else or add some color 
or change something. I'd make decisions 
-like a painter does when he's got this 
picture in front of him--he keeps changing 
and adding and subtracting and rework-
ing. And after so many decisions of lhis 
sort I finally decided that eventually it 
was finished. I had spent a Jot of money, 
and in the end, had absolutely no idea if 
anybody was interest in looking at it. But 
happily that film has been very good to 
me. In one year it has paid for itself in 
festival prizes alone. 


Are you working on any more energy 
films like Rain dance and Corridor? 
No, I'm not doing things like that now. 
I was very glad I got into that film, but 
I'm not interested right now in those 
problems or in working in that style. I'm 
shifting back more to film as information, 
film as a process of inspection. 


What projects are you working on 
now? 
It's hard to say what I'm working on. 
There are a good dozen films that I don't 
know whether I'm working on or whether 
they're abandoned. If they never get 
done, then I guess they're abandoned. 
I work primarily with ideas and the 
only way for me to t1nd out if an idea 
really works is to check it out-to shoot 
it. That room and cabinets there and in 
the back room are piled high with footage 
that I never made into a fmished film. I'm 
just cluttered up with dead-end projects. 
Some !...!''- - ~;d finish. Some are good and 
I just haven't gotten around to them. All 
this is very expensive, but I regard it as 
absolutely fundamental as a kind of 
research and development. In order to 
keep thinking about what works on film 
and what doesn't, I've got to keep work-
irlg and when I get a good idea I've got to 
stop all the other ideas and just chase that 
one and check it out. 


I'm working on a couple of films that 
are ideas that have been suggested by 
what my optical printer is capable of 
doing. I'm doing animated streak optical 
zooms. That means that the camera, 
mounted on a motor-driven platform, will 
physically move toward the image with 
the shutter open. Each frame is going to 
be blurred through the movement of the 
camera towards the image and it will be 
like zooming-- you'll have these streaks of 
light converging or radiating out from 
central points. It creates very interesting 
spacial distortions of the image. Very 
controlled, carefully set-up situations 
usirlg that piece of machinery. That's 
generally how I work, anyway. First I 
build the machirle and then I decide what 
to do with it. 


There are a couple of very large pro-
jects that may or may not ever get done. 
They really should get done because I've 
invested a lot of money in them and a Jot 
)f footage. I've got a number of docu-
nentaries that represent several thousand 
reet of color that just need to be cut and 
maybe I'U do that next year. 


I didn't know you had any interest in 
doing a documentary. 


Well, I decided at one point that I 
wanted to make a documentary and I 
started thinking about what a documen-
tary film is and what we look at and what 
we enjoy and what makes good docu-
mentaries good. Obviously it's a matter 
not only of the treatment but also the 
selection of the topic. So I started think-
irlg about that and came up with a near 
perfect solution which, as curious as it 
sounds, is baton twirling. 


I discovered that there is a massive 
sub-culture in this country of baton-
twirlers. All across the country in back 
yards, in little towns, there are thousands 
and thousands and hundreds of thousands 
of little girls who dedicate their lives to 
baton twirling. 1 had had a mistaken un-
derstanding of what baton twirling was, 
seeirlg it only at its J'TIOre public displays 
such as Memorial Day paraaes and foot-
ball halftime intermissions. That's not 
the business at aiL Baton twirlirlg is a 
highly organized, highly competitive 
activity. There are on any given weekend, 
all over the country, local and state and 
regional competitions. And this is the 
real stimulus and it's the coordirlating 
structure of the activity. The National 
Baton Twirling Association is' the second 
Volume six, number four I May 18, 1973110 
largest girl"s youth organization in the 
country, after Girl Scouts, and they take 
this business very, very seriously. 


Once I discovered this, it became very 
clear that here is absolutely the ideal sub-
ject for a documentary film. Check it out. 
It's got color, it's got spectacle, it's got 
human interest, it's grassroots Americana. 
It is this enormous cultural phenomenon 
that nobody knows anything about. It's 
got grace and beauty and movement that 
on film are even more so. 


I got some money for this from the 
Kaltenborn Foundation and I went with 
a crew and filmed 2500 feet at the Na-
tional Baton Twirling Competition out irl 
St. Paul, Minnesota four vears ago. I had 
:-.nother 2000 feet shot at the Rose Bowl 
that year. I also shot a lot of local 
twirlers and teachers of twirling. 


This twiriirlg footage I have is just out 
of sight,just extraordinary. It represents 
an infinitely complex folk art, somewhere 
between gymnastics, dance, and athletic 
activity. It requires the kind of fanatical 
dedication which is part of the reason 
why children are so good at swimming, 
because they haven't learned that there's 
more to life than swimming non-stop for 
four hours a day. But, unlike swimming 
which is purely an athletic activity, this 
isn't an issue of a matter of talent, it's a 
matter of dexterity. What they do with 
that glistening chrome dildo ... 


This material is such a joy to look at 
on film. I have a lot of sync-sound inter-
views with mothers and twirling coaches 
and executive officers of the twirling 
organizations, and of course they take it 
all very seriously. At first, I was thinking 
irl terms of how ridiculous this is and how 
wide open it is for satire, but I came 
around a good deal. I really got very fond 
of the people, knowing and seeing how 
much it meant to them. I mean, it is 
ultimately a frivolous activity, but, on the 
other hand, somebody who is that dedi-
cated and can focus attention that pre-
cisely and work that hard on something--
there's something to be said for it. 


Well that's one film that I ought to 
just sit down and finish, the material is so 
good. That's the biggest block of material 
I have on documentary film. There are a 
couple of other documentary films that 
someday I ought to finish up. One is on 
the Oldenberg lipstick given to the Uni-
versity in the spring of '69. 


I understand tho' you've been awarded 
some grants. What sort of filmmaking do 
you plan to be doing? 


Well, it's a big block of time-it's 
fifteen months free of teaching and free 
from any other academic entanglements 
at either Harvard or Yale. I've got a 
Guggenheim grant for the year, and just 
recently I landed another $10,000 grant 
from the American Film Institute to help 
with production expenses. I've been 
tooling up for the project and I've done 
my homework in theory and practice. 


It's going to be devoted to experiments 
in 70 mm stereoscopic cinematography. 
I've been aware of this phenomenon-
that of stereo film--for a long time, and 
have been shooting in it and playing with 
it since 1967 or so, when I bought a 
crude stereo rig for my 8olex. And that 
16 mm SJStem was enough to convince 
me that here, at last, is a virgin art 
enormously rich in expressive potential 
that literally nobody has seriously looked 
at or played with or explored. 


What I'll be doing are the kinds of 
things in films that I think I'm good at. 
I'm good at thinkirlg up and designing 
machinery to handle the process. I'm 
pretty good at thinking through the 
machinery towards those ideas that are 
best expressed with it. This is a kind of 
film-making that requires very close 
attention to the frame and to composi-
tion and to the image. Indeed, stereo 
really works only that way. If you just 
shoot normal situations and events in 
stereo there are all sorts of problems 
which in regular film are ordinary conven-
tions of seeing. But in stereo they become 
problems. For example, in film the movie 
screen is always seen as a flat surface with 
"'> 
an illusion of depth behind it, like a win-
dow. 


ln stereo you're not looking at a flat 
photographic image. You're looking lit-
erally at objects. let me give you an 
example of the sort of problems I'm talk-
irlg about. If you sit in the front row, to 
the side, m a movie theater, you'll get an 
enormously distorted image, and if there's 
a large close-up of a head on the screen, 
the head will be onion-shaped, it will 
stretch out towards you. You don't see 
it as onion-shaped, you see it as a head 
and you make those corrections. Now, 
if you take that same shot in stereo you 
will look at a man whose head is, in fact, 
shaped like an onion. 


I don't know exactly what I'm going 
to be doing, but there are a number of 
situations that I'm thinking of, that I 
want to explore. What I come up with 
will not necessarily be narrative but more 
situational. Since what you see is phys-
ically there, the meaning is going to come 
from why it's there. There are a lot of 
films that stereo simply will not help, 
and its overwhelming sensation of the 
physical presence will exhaust itself pretty 
quickly. But if you involve events and 
people in some sort of compelling situa-
tion that has its own inner logic and 
structure, it can be pretty excitin~. 



**Title: The Accused**
**Author: Joel Krieger**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

"No doubt you are each aware of the 
documents placed before us for scrutiny 
in this case. which though not above the 
ordinary. are not wholly beyond our 
interest. I suspect we are close to deter-
mining the guilt of the Accused, by pro-
fession an Historian, of the name N---·. 
this closenes~ giving us all. and I grant not 
the least myself, a certain tendency to 
undervalue the remaining details of our 
inspection. Of course, not everyone 
would, under any reasonable circum-
stances, desire particularly to review three 
rather lengthy documents before we may 
engage ourselves more pleasurably by 
interrupting our responsibilities here for 
dinner which, if I'm not mistaken, will be 
quite pleasant. Nonetheless. if I may ask, 
perhaps ... " 


As the gentleman spoke, I alone 
among the jurors gathered around the 
table even pretended to an air of atten-
tion. His face, an overstuffed armchair 
with cushions fluffed carelessly, puffed 
up as an unexpected thought settled 
itself. 


"In an hour, very well, before dinner. 
we shall resolve the matter. If some one 
of you will do me the honor of indicating 
his desire to examine the documents, he 
may report his conclusions to the rest of 
us upon the hour. and if we may trust his 
judgment , our business chall be con-
cluded." 


The gentleman folded his hands with a 
perfect geniality, preparing to await our 
response. My peers displayed complete 
indifference. 


"Very well. I shall read them over." 


And so I took them. My fellow jurors. 
bothering only intermittently to venture 
out from behind their disinterest, sat 
uneasily around the table. Its very sub-
stance seemed to strain under the arduous 
task of remaining inert during the folly of 
our deliberations. 


I was handed the documents. The first , 
l noted immediately, contained a narra-
tive of a courtroom scene itself. I must 
say my preliminary disinclination toward 
undertaking their study was little jeopard-
ized as I began. 

PRELIMINARY REPORT SUBMITTED 
BY ACCUSED HISTORIAN N- -- SUB-
MITTED IN PARTIAL FULFILLMENT 
OF HIS RESPONSIBILITY IN THE 
CASE OF P--- . 

The Accused sat at the docket rubbing 
his mustache horizontally along the 
upper lip with the bent knuckle of his 
thumb. He seemed to level the full inten-
sity of his attention on the gesture. I felt 
myself rubbing my bare upper lip in rhy-
thm. Evidently, The Accused had only 
this gesture with which to keep himself in 
check. He was waiting, I suppose a bit less 
eagerly than I, for the start of the trial. 
They had quite a while ago sent around a 
boy to forewarn me that the proceedings 
were to begin immediately. Consequent-
ly, I had taken my seat earlier than neces-
sary, a move most unfortunate. The seat 
was hard and badly shaped. As well, my 
tie was auite tidtt around the neck. I 
wondered whether it would be proper for 
someone in my position to undo the 
collar button. These affairs were trying 
for everyone. I felt the pen in my breast 
pocket and relaxed a bit. There was no 
reason for anyone to fe.el uneasy. The 
voice finally came: 

THE COURT IS APPROACHING. 
PLEASE RISE. 

Wondering how long the spectacle 
would take, and fearing for the worst, I 
swayed to my f~et as the President and 
Judges passed close in front and assumed 
their positions. ·· 

THE PRESIDENT: Be seated. I de-
clare this session of the Supreme Colle-
gium of the Final Court open. Mr. Ac-
cused Confessor, have you received a 
copy of the indictment? 

THE ACCUSED: Yes. 

THE PRESIDENT: Yes. Do you desire 
to have Counsel for Defense? 

THE ACCUSED: No, I do not need 
Counsel, I do not intend to defend my-
self. I am here to bear full responsibility 
for my crimes. 

THE PRESIDENT: I must explain that 
in the case of an accused who has de-
clined Counsel for the Defense that, in 
addition to his last plea, he has the priv-
ilege to make speeches in defense. 

His arrogant humility was shameful. A 
bore as well. Beyond that, his deceit 
would no doubt receive strict notice from 
the Court. I certainly noticed it. In the 
final analysis that would be enough. His 
attitude on the stand was almost a dis-
appointment. One might actually have · 
listened to his responses--as a debater he 
was usually competent if humorless-and 
almost wish him innocent. For a moment, 
just before the Court entered, I myself 
entertained certain thoughts in this direc-
tion. But one could see through his pose 
of contrition so easily. I hoped that 
would affect the length of the trial. Be-
.sides. I couldn't be sure how quickly 
they would need the record for the pub-
lic. 

THE PRESIDENT: We shall now pro-
ceed to interrogation of the Accused 
Confessor. 

THE ACCUSED: I have a request to 
make to the Court. I would like the op-
portunity of freely presenting my case to 
the Court, and request permission at the 
beginning of my statement to dwell more 
or less, as far as time will permit, on an 
analysis of the ideological and political 
stand of the criminal "Bloc of Leftists 
and Terrorists", because comparatively 
little will otherwise be said about it in the 
course of the trial and because it has a 
certain public interest and the public 
opinion will determine its historical posi-
tion. I feel my request is not unreason-
able since Citizen the Procurator put the 
question at the preliminary session, if I 
am not mistaken. 

THE PROCURATOR: If the Accused 
intends in any way to restrict the right of 
the State Procurator to put him questions 
in the course of his explanations, I think 
that Citizen the President should explain 
to the Accused Confessor that the right 
of the Procurator to put questions is 
based on law. I therefore ask that this 
request should be denied, as provided in 
the Code of Criminal Procedure. 

THE ACCUSED: That is not what I 
meant by the request. 

I suffered with the tedium of these 
formalities. Legal trickeries would not 
save him, even if they were played out. I 
had once considered proposing to the 
Court that I be called only when neces-
sary. Naturally {I say it only for form's 
sake), I would not suffer in myself any 
tendency to shirk civil responsibility. My 
meaning here is no doubt clear. Any mind 
would dull if it were consigned to unnec-
essary tedium. But I had feared the au-
thorities might misunderstand. There was 
the slight chance they might see anti-
social rationalization behind what, I 
might argue objectively. was a perfectly 
proper evaluation of the circumstances. 
So I had discreetly allowed the matter to 
drop. I wondered now whether to recon-
sider such a proposal. Luckily, guilt was 
guilt. I decided to leave the collar closed. 
Soon enough I could open it outside. But 
I was getting rather annoyed. 

THE PROCURATOR: Allow me to 
begin the interrogation of the Accused 
Confessor. Formulate briefly what exact-
ly it is you plead guilty to. 

THE ACCUSED: Firstly, to belonging 
to the revolutionary '~Bloc of Leftists and 
Terrorists". 

THE PROCURATOR: Since what 
year? 

THE ACCUSED: From the moment 
the bloc was formed. I plead guilty to 
being one of the outstanding leaders of 
this "Bloc of Leftists and Terrorists". 

Consequently. I plead guilty to what 
directly follows from this, the sum total 
of crimes committed by this revolution-
ary organization irrespective of whether 
or not I took direct part in any particular 
act. Because I was responsible as one of 
the leaders and not as a cog of this revolu-
tionary organization. 

THE PROCURATOR: What direct 
aims were pursued by this revolutionary 
organization? 

THE ACCUSED: This revolutionary 
organization, to formulate it briefly ... 

THE PROCURATOR: Yes. briefly. for 
the present. 

THE ACCUSED: The principle aim it 
pursued, although, so to speak, it did not 
fully realize it, and did not dot all the 
"i's" -was essentially the aim of elimina-
ting unfettered private competition 
through speedy public and direct appro-
priation of the means ... 

THE PROCURATOR: Briefly and 
directly you were asked to state the aims 
of your revolutionary bloc. Now then, as 
a group did you aim to overthrow the 
national power? 

THE ACCUSED: The overthrow of 
the national power was a means to our 
end. 

THE PROCURATOR: In what man-
ner. .. 

THE ACCUSED: As is known. 


**Title: Photographs**
**Author: Wayne Kraft**
**Page number(s): 12**




**An Interview with Eugène Ionesco**
**Author: Jonathan Marks**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
proto-Absurdist dramatist Jarry-1 would 
have had to take my leave of him bowing, 
walking backwards, and calling him "your 
transcendency," because ot his high rank 
in the cult. I decided it would be better 
not to. They thanked me much for 
coming. I tried my best to say the right 
things. 

I went out the multi-locked door, took 
the lift down. and ran for a cab to Orly. 
That )WS 196 7. Since then I have 
appeared in two other lonesco plays, and 
directed still another. I wrote an earlier 
version of this article for The New Journal 
that managed to get quoted and refe"ed 
to in other publications, and an Australian 
professor, Richard N. Coe, has seen fit to 
publish a picture of me as a nearly-nude 
rhinoceros in the British edition of his 
study of lonesco. As a result of all this, I 
too now have a steadily -growing collec-
tion of miniature rhinoceroses. 

Before /left his apartment six Augusts 
ago, lonesco told me to keep in touch. I 
have, but sparingly; I don't want to push 
it. I write him infrequently and here-
sponds promptly. I spent a year in 
France, but only took up the oft-repeated 
open invitation to visit a couple of tjmes. 
Ionesco thrives on contradictions. No 
interview with him, no pronouncement 
oy him :.hould be laken too seriously; he 
will take pains to gainsay it the next time 
around. The second time I saw him he 
looked thinner, he sounded sadder, and 
he didn't laugh. A new black rhino had 
found its way into the living room, and 
squatted staring at us from the floor. 

From his balcony he had watched the 
riots of 1968 bring France to a standstill, 
yet de Gaulle, .. an inadvertent Pata-
physician," had squeaked his way out of 
it. Vietnam and the world's reaction to it 
were tearing everything apart, and he 
wanted to know about it. Beckett had 
written the play lonesco had joked 
about-Breath, which Kenneth Tynan (an 
arch-enemy of lonesco) had perverted 
into the prologue for Oh, Calcutta. Hun-
ger and Thirst.had played at a professional 
summer theatre in Massachusetts (an 
•• American Premiere," according to their 
publicity) with the new fowth episode in 
place of the old second, and nobody 
much liked any of it. He has written no 
new episodes. Grotowski is now the rage. 
Mme Ionesco has seen him, but he hasn't. 
I tell him all I know-their new approach 
to the physical training of the actor, and 
the new approach to the text: the play-
wright is unimportant, the words are 
intoned, not spoken with regard to their 
literal meaning. He puzzles, he questions, 
and then he stops: "But, still and all, it's 
...ery difficult to write a text for the the-
atre." 

For many critics, Ionesco's frrst plays 
were his best. They shocked the theatre 
world and then, after a while, they were 
understood, and stayed that way. But he 
went on writing, and changed. Though his 
first theatrical acts had been radical, 
revolutionary, his credentials lapsed. He 
saw himself as anti-totalitarian, anti-
political; he was seen as reactionary. His 
place in the history of the drama was 
assured, but he continued to live and 
write, and what he wrote often embar-
rassed people for his sake, and even en-
dangered the esteem he had won years 
before. Ionesco seems to be constantly 
aware of this current, as if his silence, his 
death, would be accepted by the world as 
an act of discretion. Yet he seems to 
prefer a life of writing to eternal ftxity in 
a pantheon, and so he continues. 

And then I phone him again, and he's 
ebullient. "How are things at Yale? Have 
they turned it into a shoe factory yet? I 
hear from Harvard that it'll happen any 
day now." He has only half an hour, but 
he invites me over and stretches it to two. 
I return to Yale, to the Drama School. 
Here in the States Ionesco is taught-far 
more than he is in France--and his earlier 
plays are produced, but he hardly seems 
to be a contemporary playwright. There 
hasn't been a major New York produc-
tion for years. 

In 1970 I hear he has written a new 
play ,Jeux de massacre. I ask about it, he 
sends me an autographed copy, and I try 
to get Dean Brustein interested in it. I 
don't get far. After a while it gets pro-
duced in Washington, to no great acclaim. 
When I first heard of Macbett, well 
over a year ago, I didn't even bother 
mentioning it. But Alvin Epstein, who 
was beginning to assume his duties as 
Acting Artistic Director of the Yale Rep-
ertory Theatre, heard about it and was 
excited by what he heard. Brustein was 
enthusiastic about the idea of premiering 
Edward Bond's Lear at the Rep, so Mac-
bell sounded like a good companion-
piece. Very softly, very gently, I leaped 
in. I wrote lonesco for information, I got 
reports on the Paris production, I got 
hold of a script, wrote up a scene-by-
scene synopsis, and made a rough trans-
lation of a couple of scenes. Epstein and 
literary Manager Michael Feingold read 
the French text and loved it. I just hoped, 
but didn't push. (I couldn't be objective 
about it anyway). 

Ionesco, however, 
hadn't answered my inquiries, so in early 
May we decided to phone him. The top 
brass of th~ Repertory Company gathered 
in the Dean's office as we waited for the 
transatlantic connection to be made. I 
couldn't resist;just as lonesco was about 
to get on the line I covered the mouth-
piece and said to Brusteirt "Quick! How 
do you say •Hello' in French?" A pall fell 
over the room. 

lonesco was as friendly and helpful as 
he could be, but the news was not en-
couraging; he had just sold all English-
language rights to a producer in London. 
He would see what he could do. Before 
saying goodbye he startled me: 
"Thanks," he said, .. for being interested 
in me." 

Through the summer and fall we dealt 
with London , trying to get the rights. All 
Ionesco knew of the Rep was what I told 
Volume six, number four I May 18, 1973114 
him, but he wrote that he would insist 
that if the Londoners didn't take up their 
option to premiere the play they should 
let us do it. 

For months there was no word. We 
put Macbett as late in the season as pos-
sible, in the seventh slot, right before 
Lear. As the months of silence wore on 
and hope wore out we looked for a play 
to fill the slot: something small, prefer-
ably a four- character play, as Lear was an 
enormous undertaking that would need 
extra weeks of rehearsal (overlapping the 
weeks reserved for Production 7) and 
would require the full energies of the 
Company. Just days before we were going 
to announce another play for the seventh 
slot a telegram came from London. It was 
ours. 

Macbett was a strairt on the Company, 
but they seemed to love it. Weeks before 
it went into rehearsal there was already 
enormous effort to re-focus the script in 
the places where it would be meaningless 
to American"audiences (or where the 
directors--Epstein, Bill Peters, and John 
McAndrew-thought it was weak) and to 
plan in detail the set, costumes, and ac-
tion. 

During the weeks of rehearsal I had 
virtually nothing to do with the produc-
tion; I had to pass my doctoral orals. I 
felt--unreasonably, no doubt--as if I had 
been separated from my baby. But when 
I finished my orals and got back to re-
hearsals-the week before opening-1 was 
delighted. The Company's Jove and work 
and directors' feeling for the play were 
already stamped upon the production. 

There were still problems, though, 
esi'Ccially with the ending. The directors 
had felt that Ionesco's ending was cold 
and flat , but they knew that theirs had 
the same problem. So we examined the 
script. 

The play deals with the continual 
circularity of evil. It posits a state in 
which the ruler, no matter who he is, 
will do evil. Glamiss and Cander ful-
minate against the tyranny of Archduke 
Duncan but, though their rebellion fails, 
it is obvious that their rule would have 
been no better than his. Macbett and 
Banco, the generals who have commanded 
the archducal armies in the suppression of 
the rebellion, change their minds and rail 
against Duncan by repeating Glamiss' and 
<..:ander's accusations word tor word. 
Their rebellion succeeds, but the state is 
no better off for it; in place of one mur-
derer on the throne, the state now has a 
committee of mwderers. Nor does Mac-
bett's murder of Banco help things in any 
way. An avenger appears--Macol-but at 
the end of the play he announces quite 
clearly that his rule will be the worst yet. 
In Ionesco's ending the populace one 
by one leave the stage during Macol's 
last speech. A fog covers the stage and a 
butterfly-chaser-a figure of absurd, de-
tached hope- crosses the stage, as he had 
done irt the first act. But in the Yale 
production the butterfly- chaser was out 
of the question; the directors hadn't like 
him from the start, so they had cut him 
out of the play. Besides, the populace in 
lonesco's version was showing an un-
characteristic discernment; throughout 
the play they had enthusiastically em-
braced every tyrant who came along, so 
why should they now withhold their 
favors from Macol? 

A new idea was hammered out; the 
populace would cheer Macol toward the 
ings and then freeze. Two of the aU-but-
faceless peasants would detach themselves 
from the crowd and repeat a fragment of 
the railing-against-the-tyrant dialogue that 
Glamiss and Cander and then Macbett 
and Banco had spoken. They then rejoin 
the mob, which unfreezes and cheers 
Macol's coronation off the stage. 

The directors worried about the new 
ending. They asked me if it wasn't doing 
violence to the playwright's intentions. 
But I liked it; it completed the circle 
already suggested by the text, it preserved 
the sense of a steadily deepening evil-a 
downward spiral, really, rather than a 
circle--yet it kept alive the absurd spirit of 
hope--through laughter, if nothing else. I 
remembered lonesco's appreciation of the 
Dramat's rewrite of the last episode of 
Hunger and Thirst, and I advised them to 
go ahead. 

Later I remembered something else. 
lhe last time I saw lonesco was in Au-
gust, 1969, at his apartment. After we 
had chatted for a while he got ready to go 
out for an appoirttment. As his wife 
helped him put on his jacket, I caught a 
glimpse of a button on the underside of 
his lapel. I asked him to show it to me. It 
said: H H H in '68; I asked him if he had 
been for Humphrey. 
"No," he said, .. 1 didn't really like 
either of them. One is as bad, as ugly as 
the other." He laughed, said goodbye, 
and headed for the lift.e 
Jonathan Marks, Assistant Literary 
Manager of The Yale Repertory Theatre, 
is working on a doctorate in dramatic 
literature and criticism.


**Him**
**Author: Andrew Elkind**
**Page number(s): 15**

continued from page 10 
It is also wide open to optical marup-
ulations that I think I can engineer through 
optical printing of the stereo image that 
will permit fantastic transformations. 

Just to start with: double exposures, 
layers, several images stacked in space, 
each operating differently, sometimes . 
floating in and out of each other, some-
times separating--that kind of thing. 

Very simple to do. It's not at all simple, 
but I can do it. 

Or, for example, working with travel-
ing matts. If I shoot in stereo, say a man 
·against a totally black background, what 
you see is this man walking, or singing, 
or dancing, or whatever, and his figure 
is brilliantly lit and is totally white, so 
you have this figure of white light 
moving and walking in front of you, 
right? Okay. If you take that piece of 
film, which is a white cut-out, in space, 
and print it together with let's say foot-
age of a pan shot moving along a brick 
wall and combine those two together, 
what you'll have is this improbable but 
tangibly real image of a figure in space 
moving with gestures--very clearly a figure, 
but the image formed out of a brick wall. 
And then to print that with animated-
streak optical zooms, and to have him 
disappear down into himself. Magritte 
is the closest in painting to the kinds of 
ideas that I'm speculating on and ca£1 
happen in stereo, I think. 

Wlu!· I'll end up with is not something 
that is distributable. It will be very much 
a kind of concert situation where I have 
to adjust the entire viewing, screening 
situation. I'm thinking most of aJI rear 
screen which imparts a very different 
quality to the image. Another even more 
important aspect of my stereo work in-
volves an adjustable inter-ocular separa-
tion of the images. That is one part of 
the whole process that nobody has worked 
with at all. The assumption has been that 
stereo is a rendering of the three-dimen-
sional world according to clues in space 
that are determined by binocular vision. 
The eyes are about 2~ inches apart, so 
if you put lenses that far apart, you read 
in space. But if you design the cameras 
so that those eyes can be moved farther 
out, what that does is enormously mag-
nify it, stretching space. Then, by re-
photography on the optical printer, you 
can do all sorts of miniturization effects. 
You can have little , tiny people hanging 
in space, moving way out and way back 
and things like that. I think it's a very 
rich, wide open, and fascinating art. 

I've got a whole notebook of ideas. But 
most of the ideas will come from the pro-
cess and checking out ideas and seeing 
what works and what doesn't and just 
following my nose. e 
Andrew Elkind is a senior in Yale Colle~ 
Interested in film history and criticism. 
He has been awarded a Murray Fellow-
ship and a Bates Senior Grant to study 
film ne:ct year in Paris and London. 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Such dilatory ideological foolishness. 
To what end I could only wonder. I knew 
the prosecution. It would not be fuddled. 
I noted carefully, I might say conscien-
tiously, the evasiveness and callow lack of 
respect the Accused paid to the Court. 
Such squirming. The chair was intoler-
able. Perhaps the messenger could be 
induced to procwe me a pillow-- just a 
sm~ll one, perfectly unsatisfactory, like 
the kind one used while driving. As a 
Cowt official I was entitled to certain 
courtesies. The oversight was appalling, 
and not without consequences. My per-
ception should not be allowed to suffer 
through unfortunate external conditions 
that would quite naturally in any human 
being create certain ... psychological 
... distractions and unpleasant conditions 
in the mind that might affect both obser-
vations and conclusions. I shifted my 
weight. 


THE PROCURATOR: By means of a 
forcible overthrow? 
THE ACCUSED: Yes, by means of the 
forcible overthrow of state power. 
THE PROCURATOR: With the help 
of? 
THE ACCUSED: With the help of all 
the difficulties which could be encounter 
ed by this power. In particular with the 
help of a war which prognostically was in 
prospect. 
THE PROCURATOR: Which was 
prognostically in prospect with whose 
help? 
THE ACCUSED: With the help of 
foreign states. 
THE PROCURATOR: On condition? 
THE ACCUSED: On the condition, to 
put it concretely, of a number of conces-
sions. 
THE PROCURATOR: To the extent 
of ... 
THE ACCUSED: To the extent of the 
cession of territory. 
THE PROCURATOR: That is ... ? 
THE ACCUSED: If all the "i's" are 
dotted-on condition of the dismember-
ment of the State. 
THE PROCURATOR: The severance 
of whole regions and republics from the 
State? 
THE ACCUSED: Yes. 
THE PROCURATOR: In whose favor? 
THE ACCUSED: In favor of the cor-
responding states, whose geographical and 
political... 
THE PROCURATOR: And also by 
means of weakening the defensive power? 
THE ACCUSED: You see, tl1is ques-
tion was not discussed, at least not in my 
presence. 
THE PROCURATOR: And what was 
the position in regard to wrecking? 
THE ACCUSED: The position in re-
gard to wrecking was that in the end, 
especially under pressure of the Terrorist 
part of the so-called contact center, des-
pite a number of internal differences, 
which I take are of no interest to the 
investigation, after various vicissitudes, 
disputes and so on, the orientation on 
wrecking was adopted. 

Volume six, number four I May 18. 19731 16 

At this point there occurred an inter-
ruption of the part of the person directly 
to my left. Scratching his stomach with 
untold pleaswe as if in anticipation of th~ 
bulge that would develop there once my 
task had seen its completion, he inter-
rupted me needlessly (as there was an 
unoccupied man seated to his left idly 
fingering a silver case): 
"Pardon me, have a cigarette extra?" 
"They are never extra. But you may 
have one if you wish. Incidentally, would 
you care to scan the portion I've conclu-
ded?" 
"Actually, I suspect you are in the 
better position to judge them. I was 
rather careless this morning and failed to 
digest some of the earlier details. I was 
about to a:;k you. How do you consider 
these writings? I would guess they are 
pretty dry reading at this point, with the 
deliberations we have carried on." 
"He's a bit off, actually. It is more a 
curiosity than legally germane. I am not 
clear as to what he is intending. As I say, 
perhaps you would like to take a look for 
the sake of your own satisfaction." 
"Well perhaps one of us will. Yes. 
Very likely one of us may-" 
The man on my left, to whom I had 
just spoken, turned slowly to his own 
left, carefully swiveling the trunk of his 
body in the chair, indicating that for him 
such action was a physical feat offering 
an unusual challenge. The man on his side 
immediately began to shake his head 
disappointedly, as if some imperious 
force prevented his accepting the fellow's 
offer to take up the documents. 


THE PROCURATOR: Did it tend to 
weaken the defensive power of the coun-
try? 
THE ACCUSED: Natwally. 
THE PROCURATOR: Consequently, 
there was an orientation on the weaken-
ing, the undermining of defensive power. 
THE ACCUSED: Not formally, not as 
a matter of ideology, but essentially it 
was so. 
THE PROCURATOR: But the actions 
and activity in this direction were clear? 
THE PROCURATOR: Can you say 
the same about subversive acts? 

Detail followed trivial detail, as if the 
events were the key to the verdict. A 
pimple on my forehead needed attention, 
it made me tense. Who would notice if I 
placed a clean index finger unobtrusively 
of course, even carelessly--on either side 
and pressed down with no obvious con-
cern. Such deliberation was certainly not 
frivolous. I had to concentrate unbother-
ed. Yet I could imagine the regrettable 
distraction if the President chanced to 
peer up ... 

The President: You, Citizen Historian, 
rather than conscientiously procuring 
notes as your duty prescribes, you have 
involved yourself quite independently in 
personal endeavor generally unbefitting 
the solemnity of this court. What briefly, 
is your explanation of this? 
Me: Mr. 
aa~en Your Excellence the Presidt>nt,l 


--- Page 17 ---

Volume lix, number four I May 18, 19731 17 
had mtant no pttt)l intt"uption In this 
CfiSI of obvious grand fraud and anti·statt 
trtJachtr)l of the highest order. I offer 
apolol)l, but when tht pressure builds up, 
I am compelled to sa,y, It Is m)l habit lon1 
held, a philosoph)! of persontJI h)llit ne of 
the highest standards ... / hlld never 
rtcelved an)linklinl of public dlsapprov· 
at... I rtCOfnlzc ... 

TN! PrcsldetJt: Mr. Citizen Hlstorilm, 
)lOur pll'sonal philosoph)! of h)lflene as 
)IOU put It Is bt)lond our concern. The 
particular motivation, mQ)II sa)ll'tltional· 
izatlon, for en anti·soc/Ql act such as that 
)IOU have just perform«/ in total and 
complete abnelfltlon of civil respomlbil· 
it)l and trust ... 

Sufferina for my restraint, I bepn to 
feel nauseated. With an effort I focused 
my attention on the proceedinaa. 
THE PROCURATOR: I repeat, Ac· 
c:used Confenor, can you say the same 
about subversive acts? 
THE ACCUSED: With reprd to sub· 
ventve ac:tl··by virtue of the division of 
labor and my definite functions, of which 
you know-1 mainly occupied myself with 
the problematlc:a of aeneralleaderahlp 
and with the ideoloaJcal aide. This, of 
course, did not exclude either my belna 
aware of the prac:tlc:al alde of the matter, 
or the adoption of a number of practical 
steps on my part. 
and activities In this direction were clear? 
THE ACCUSED: In Heael'a "Logic" 
the word "this" Ia c:onaldered to be the 
most difficult word ... 
THE PROCURATOR: I ask the Court 
to explain to the Accused Confeasor that 
he Ia here not In the capacity of a phllo· 
aopher, but a criminal, and he would do 
· better to refrain from talklna about 
Heael'a phllo10phy, It would be better, 
flnt of all for Heael'a phUosophy ... 
THE ACCUSED: A phlloaopher may 
be a c:rlminal. 
THE PRESIDENT: Yea, that Ia to say, 
those who imaalne themselves to be phil· 
osophers turn out to be spies. Phlloaophy 
ls out of place here, Mr. Cltlzen Proc··
THE PROCURATOR: Yes, the bloc: 
which you headed set Itself the aim of 
orpnlzlna subversive acts which were 
dealaned to overthrow then diamemeber 
for forelan nations this areat and aover· 
elan state. 
THE ACCUSED: Yea, as I have 
continuously held myself reaponalble 
for. There Ia nothlna for you to an· 
tlculate about. 
THE PRESIDENT: Accused Con/tr· 
sor,do not foraet apln where you are 
now. 
• 
THE ACCUSED: I am speaklna aa I 
have done at the preliminary hearlna. The 
Ideological referents that determined 
motivation and intent 1n my anti-State 
treachery are of criticallmportance. Be· 
fore the pubUc: I admit the momentary 
errors that led me to traitorous ac:tlonA. 
thouah remalnlna loyal. Incorrect juda· 
ment ... 
THE PROCURATOR: The Court Is 
not concerned with Intent and ldeoloay. I 
wUJ be compelled to cut the lnterroptlon 
lhort because you are apparently follow· 
nlte tac:tlc:s and do not want to 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'olume six, number fourl May 18, 19731 19 
anding and ingratitude. His plea, his 
rhole testimony, was completely un-
cceptable. With relief I loosened my 
1>llar and felt for my pen. 

THE PRESIDENT: ·On the basis of the 
~stimony the Supreme Collegium o! the 
inal Court sentences the Accused Con-
ssor P-~- to the extreme penalty-to 
~ hanged until death with the confisca-
l>n of all personal property. The Prelim-
inary Record of Proceedings is hereby 
aced in possession of the Honorable 
itizen Historian for the purpose of pre-
Iring corrections and additions in the 
.se of unacceptable testimony. 

DOCUMENTS CONFISCATED 
R.OM THE RESIDENCE OF ACCUSED 
lSTORIAN N-- -

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
me. For many years I could not un-
derstand why, on my birthday one year, 
he remained in bed and refused to join 
the celebration. You see, one cannot 
know to suspect such things. Such a fact 
could not be predicted by State officials 
from testimony. 


Of course, one can depend on the 
callous nature of children. They jeer at 
you incessantly. Let your hat be crooked 
or let you have a bandage upon your 
cheek from a hurried shave in the morn-
ing that disfigured an uneven sector of 
the face, that is by the side of the mouth 
there are certain areas which-
The pimple, on my cheek, needed 
attention .. .l recall it. But the Procurator 
has misinterpreted. The preliminary 
report was rushed. I neglected to dis-
tinguish, that, the redness, a natural 
matter of complexion, you understand. 
Exactly so. 


The indiscretion, you realize--was 
unintentional. I take the task seriously. 
Habit. A curious phenomenon both in tht 
general and specific. I keep the trial 
records, in actual transcript form.l place 
them beside me as I begin my historical 
record, naturally. Perhaps I mentioned 
above-during the trial for my own per-
sonal use, I note the circumstances 
around me. Of the following sort--
/ entered the courtroom, witnessing 
the fami/iJlr positioning of the officials, 
my peers, who appeared in Court year by 
year-and so on...:Only one man remains 
apart accomodating himself with diffi-
culty to the su"oundings-and so on·-
You see, I take a sort of diary. I write 
it for myself, though I speak as if to 
another. Harmless impressions I note. If 
one recalls the impressions, you see, the 
logic and detail of the moment are better 
recalled for use later. So I, as a matter of 
habit, but one that has served well--place 
my personal notes (subjective, I grant 
that, but one recalls the other to which it 
is inextricably linked, mediated, you see, 
mediated by my writing). I place the one 
by the other. Never before has there been 
this confusion. Now I have submitted 
both. How could I? This is impossible. I 
am betrayed. I cannot explain. I have 
committed suicide. How many times have 
I thought of it. Never directly. Never with 
an instrument. But this is beyond 
mistake. I have never done this before. 
Do you understand. I meant no paro-
dy. It was a mistake. My intention must 
be considered. I have never done this 
before. My record is clear. I have served 
conscientiously ... 
DOCUMENTS COJI.IriSCA TED 
FROM CELL OF ACCUSED HISTO-
RIANN---
NOTe:~KA~MENTSARRANGED 
IN PROBABLE CORRECT ORDER BY 
COURT 
A I have always studied in cramped 
quarters. This is nothing. Heretofore 
space to me has been temporal: In my 
theoretical studies. I have constdered 
world historical sequence. But the work 
has been taken. There is barely time to 
read. They turn off the lights directly 
after the meal. Do not misunderstand. 
The quality of the foc;>d is the leas~ con-
sideration. I work to 1gnore the ammal 
functions alone. But I have changed. I 
have lost the scrubbed pink of the civil 
servant. Tht: nails grow and shape them-
selves. The hair begins to retain the oils. 
There are blank spaces on the scalp, 
furrows, where the scalp peeks through 
covered with a scummy rind. It is not 
balding. Forgive me, this is inconse-
quential. I fight the idle mind. 
Volume six, number four! May 18, 1973! 22 


I write now, given the chance for a 
moment. I display talents long hidden by 
the specific form of labor. The desk 
drawer (have I mentioned they have left 
me a desk and a broken typewriter, I 
soon shall know each part if I remain)-it 
closes unevenly, only with extreme 
pressure. I examined it minutely. A thin 
wood-like plank of board has splintered 
and reaches, now, unevenly above the 
groove through which it was origninally 
intended to slide. I am referring to the 
bottom of the desk drawer. Do you know 
these accordian shaped blades of steel 
which when wedged between two separ-
ated splinter sections of wood, join them 
together. This is what I require. You see I 
have become less abstract .This is a lower 
level of abstraction. I am concerned now 
within a specific historical formation. 


Why have I again waited for the last 
hours of lildlt to take up the pen in hand 
(I speak figuratively, I employ the rna- · 
chine). Trembling, I have removed and 
folded the plain grey cover that has 
encased it. The yellow light forces the 
plain grey cover that has encased it. The 
yellow light forces the dust to appear 
with special clarity. I tap the left side key 
for raising the keyboard. It refuses to 
hold the upper case. I placed a scrap of a 
napkin, folded, in the ribbon guide to 
force the carriage to raise up when nee-
essary. I beat at it with my pen in hand. I 
have rolled the ribbon counter-clockwise 
with my finger so I will not fmd myself at 
a critical moment uselessly striking keys. 
That is, through certain details, I have 
prepared the instrument and am typing. 
And so I am sitting again at a typewriter. 


They have promised that tonight I 
shall be allowed to bathe. Why am I 
si>eaking of these things. There will be a 
strict limit of water. (You see. prisons are 
most gratuitous in the terms they im-
pose). ) c~u)d per _!laps wash once lightly. 
But it is in certain areas that the cloth 
rubs most annoyingly. 1 don't know 
whether the skin is too dry or too oily. 
Soap dries it, I know that. This has not 
been my privilege. The water will not be 
at all plentiful. If it is hot or warm it 
might be best to hurl it directly over the 
head. I could dry the scalp and scratch it 
at my leisure. A white crustiness has 
formed (not alarmingly, this is not really 
unusual) under the mails upon scratching, 
which is more frequent. But if the water 
is very cold, it would be best used around 
the arms and legs. The feet are beyond 
the present interest. Where can they take 
me? (Always, you may note, I inject the 
theory). They have begun to crack be 
tween the toes. Of course this cannot 
interest you. I am idle. This is clear to 
you, no doubt. I must concentrate, and 
leave the details within this space to your 
conjecture. You are interested in broader 
relationships. There lies the explanation. 


B They have taken the typewnter, the 
writing paper, I have always ~own. 


Luckily I was able to hide agamst my skin 
a few sheets I had filled. The ink may 
have smeared against the sweat. I can 
check later. There is no imprimatur, now. 
I write what I know. You may ask how 
they have taken the typewriter with the 
report expected by the day. And the 
writing paper. I cannot say. I will not see 
it again. I have begged for a newspaper. A 
party paper, even a journal. For the 
Volume six, number four! May 18, 1973! 23 


thickness, who can read it and discover. Is 
it not my due? A fair recompense for the 
expropriated portion of my labor. But we 
are too advanced for simple commodity 
exchange. 


I have always read. As a child, even. 
Instead of such a life that, in a certain 
sense, one might admit, that is instead of 
a life of this nature. I have not known the 
way of others. Do I drink or sit at gossip. 
They play bridge until the morning. Have 
I a friend of the kind- Ptitochka, shall we 
go to the ballet, how her cheeks flame, 
her bare neck reddens itself a bit as I 
gaze, she places her hand, just the elegant 
tips of her fmgers, in my palm. Let us 
walk on the prospect. Let us stroll 
through the park. You are poetry to me. 
Here is the laurel for your hair. No in-
deed, my little sweet, it is you. Not I. I 
am blessed with you, my pigeon, without 
aU is barren ... 


But I am distracted from my work.· 
Allow me. It is very hard to read, now. 
There is but one dusty shaft from the 
window. Of course, this is best. The street 
noises cannot distract me. I concentrate 
on the proof of my innocence. It shall 
immediately be laid before you. You 
must understand, the children plotted 
against me. They pointed, jeering at me, a 
trusted official. I did not mention this 
offlcially. As I left the court a group of 
juvenile felons ch~se !11~ out. Where were 
their books, as a child, I was never separa 
ted, lessons had to be copied. They 
chased me to my apartment. 


c 
Was it the last I broke off. I had not 
noticed the light. It is all the same when 
the eyes are accustomed. No more 
chances. That was thirteen days ago. A 
week later I could write again. It means 
nothing to you, the days, I might argue. 
Here time is different. A tile on the wall 
for each minute, a fly per second. The 
walls crawl with them. You understand 
they have not infected me yet. This is 
why I scratch the scalp, to check. The 
nails come ~P clean-that is, cl<_>gged with 
my organic matter alone. Of course there 
is dust. But the living garbage is removed. 
I am slipping from myself again. I must 
explain my disagreement regarding the 
nature of history that placed me here. It 
is not the dialectic that escapes me. But 
who can supply the term. You memorize 
as taught. One extrapolates only within. 
First it is the teacher, a party organ, the 
newspaper, the party itself. History can 
be understood- that is, the progression 
recalled. In dreams, for the exam it is all 
clear. But there is no mechanism. It is the 
rule of history. That is, the distinction 
lies in relation of subject to object. There 
is no knowing subject. This is clear for 
you. It is the historian. The historian 
alone. 


D It is really very clever, on their part, I 
admit. They have not returned the type-
writer. It has been two weeks now. They 
say the case must be completed. My 
testimony. that is the official document. 
is complete: For a time there was only 
the pen. But that was better. I am closer 
to the instruments of my labor. They 
serve at my will. Do you understand? Of 
oourse this is as under early historic 
formations. I was glad to have a pen, so 
that I may continue my pleas. Why have I 
oomplicated the matter so? But they will 
take the pen soon. The chances do not 
escape me. I must have it down. Finally, 
they have told me to write a final plea. A 
final statement. They ask me to summar-
ize my life. Naturally ,little is necessary, 
my case is clear. But, you see, I grab at 
the chance to have a pen. I write lighter, 
superimposed three times, and so have 
more left for the nights. This strains my 
eyes, but it cannot be helped. I think the 
fever has begun. I feel hotter. The room is 
oolder, the soup, the window is clouded. 
My face seems flushed. It remains sweaty 
all the time now. It is red, needs atten-
tion. But they give me no linen. Only 
they have shown by their faces, they will 
take the pen. I must conclude. 
You know what has become of me. 
You realize I do not. I cannot say. You 
see the point. It is a matter of history, 
now. 


A&A COFFEE SHOP 
·1 he children keep shouting. I carry 
books, walking down the stairs. I loosen 
my tie. They do not like me. They are 
laughing at the size of my head. Moilll'rul 
says it's just because we are new in the 
neighborhood. They won't eat lunch 'Vith 
me. I'll study. I have to, what if the exam 
is a day early. I can't go. It's a bad teach-
er. He makes everyone nervous. I can't 
go. I can't go. It will be summer soon. I 
can study at home. 


Very well. I am sufficiently in sight of 
the end. My allowance of time will be 
strictly adhered to. 


.. Fellow jurors, very well. I have con-
cluded my study." 


The gentleman who addressed us 
nearly an hour before spoke again. Eager 
for their release, my peers on this occa-
sion displayed perfect attention. 


..If there are no objections, I shall 
inform the Court of our decision. Sir, 
perhaps you should like to offer a few 
words ... " 


He hesitated a moment, offering with 
this gesture the formal acknowledgement 
of the duty I had taken upon myself. 


.. Thank you. No. There is nothing." 


.. Very well. I shall inform the Court of 
the results of our deliberation. As for 
dinner, who shall order ftrst? I believe 
that honor is yours ... " e



Monday-Friday: 9 am to 4:30pm 
LORD'S CAFE IN COMMONS 
Monday-Friday: 11:45 am to 1:30pm 
KLINE BIOLOGY TOWER 
Monday-Friday: 9 am to 3 pm 
Continental Breakfast: 9-11 
Lunch: 11:30-1:30 
Light Lunch: 1:30-3 
CAFE IN COMMONS 
Monday-Friday: 8:30pm to 1:30am 
Sunday: 6:30pm to 1:30am 
LAW SCHOOL DINING HALL 
Monday-Friday 
Breakfast: 7:30-9 
Lunch: 11:30- 1:30 
Dinner: 5: 15-6:30 
STERLING SPOON 
Monday-Friday: 8:00 am to 4:30 pm 
DURFEE SWEET SHOP 
Monday-Friday: Noon to 4:30pm 
7:30pm to 1:30am 
Saturday & Sunday: 7 pm to 1 :30 am 


THE FIRST BREAKTHROUGH 
IN LOUDSPEAKERS IN 50 YEARS 

A LOUDSPEAKER BETTER 
THAN MOST AMPLIFIERS! 
When we talk about distortion ratio on the order 
of 1/10 of 1% or less, most people assume we are 
talking about the best of the newly designed direct 
coupled amplifiers. Not so now ... THERE ACTUAL-
LY IS A LOUDSPEAKER WITH AS LOW A DIS· 
TORTION RATIO AS THE BEST AMPLIF I ER! 
The new ESS Heil Air Motion Transformer, devel-
oped by the noted physicist, Dr. Oskar Heil, and 
manufactured under exclusive license by ESS, is a 
revolutionary transducer design that does not gen-
erate sound waves by pushing air with a piston 
"plunger." Instead, the ESS Heil Air Motion Trans-
former harnesses the tremendous power of a pneu-
matic "lever" which, by small squeezing movements 
over a large surface area directly produces air move-
ments FIVE TIMES GREATER than a conventional 
flat surface with one-fifth the motion. As a result 
of the completely new principles by which it oper-
ates, the ESS Heil Air Motion Transformer has near 
instantaneous acceleration, exhibits distortion 
figures as fine as modern electronics, and achieves a 
level of performance that finally approaches theore-
tical perfection. 

HEAR THIS FANTASTIC LOUDSPEAKER 
EXCLUSIVELY AT FRED LOCKE STEREO! 
1533 State St., New Haven 
136 Park St. (Annex), New Haven 
216 W est Main St., Avco 
1071 Burnside Ave., East Hartford 
787-0183 
776·5600 
678-1797 
528 -9479 

