Publication date: December 2, 1988
Volume: 21
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Mary Chen
- Editor-in-Chief: Martha Brant
- Business Manager: Jodi Lox
- Managing Editors: Skye Wilson, Peter Zusi
- Designer: Pamela Geismar
- Production Manager: David King
- Photography Editor: Heidi Schulman
- Associate Business Manager: Laura Smith, Pamela Weber
- Associate Editors: Cynthia Cameros, John Gill, Kirk Semple
- Associate Designer: Stephen Hooper
- Associate Photography Editor: John Kim
- Circulation Manager: Lynn Festa
- Subscription Manager: Malaika Amon
- Staff: Ethan Cohen, Ann Light, Motoko Rich, Anna Kreiner, Jaeyong So, Mitchell Hammond, Anthony Ewing, Jennifer Fleissner, Julie Hantman, Barry Shimelfarb, Jamie Workman
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Founders: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, James W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffry Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

NewsJournal - 4
Letters - 7
Between the Vines - 8
Profile - 12
Features - 14
Out of Focus - Julie Hantman - 20
Yale's Keeper - David Greenberg - 20
Playing the Game - Josh Plaut - 20
In Line With Tradition - Kirk Semple - 28
Labor Management - 38
Books - 38


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 2**

Veterans awarded . . . families boarded . . . history recorded.


**Title: Out of Focus**
**Author: Julie Hantman**
**Page number(s): 20**

A quarter century after the University dropped its quota, jewish life is still relegated to 
various basements on and off campus. New plans for a Hillel House would invite the 
1,500 jewish undergraduates to come together and explore their identity. 


**Title: Yale's Keeper**
**Author: David Greenberg**

With an eye for detail and a commitment to liberal education, new Provost Frank 
Turner has reconstructed the priorities of the University's number two position. 


**Title: Playing the Game**
**Author: Josh Plaut**

From kayaking to badminton, club sports offer students a variety of unconventional 
opportunities. But on the athletic department's list of financial responsibilities, the clubs 
run a distant third behind varsity and intramural sports.


**Title: In Line With Tradition**
**Author: Kirk Semple**
**Page number(s): 28**

The pledge process of Alpha Phi Alpha, the oldest black Greek society, raises people's 
eyebrows as well as the fraternity's profile. But behind their solemn Line Lies a powerful 
history.


**Title: Labor Management**
**Page number(s): 38**

Babies take time—nine months to be born and 18 years to leave home. An academic 
career also takes time—at least ten years to gain tenure. Yale's hazy maternity policy 
offers no guidance to faculty juggling this double workload.


**Title: Reconcilable Differences**
**Author: Motoko Rich**

Religion and psychoanalysis rarely meet under the same roof. But Dr. Stanley Leavy's 
new book, *In the Image of God*, argues that the pew and the couch can exist 
side-by-side.



**Title: Letter of Commendation**
**Author:  Jeanne Frantz**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NewsJournal 
Letter of Commendation 
Two veterans stood in the crowd on 
New Haven's Long Wharf, waiting for 
a chance to approach the Vietnam 
Veterans Memorial and pay their 
respects to a friend killed in the war. 
When they saw each other- the first 
·time in almost 20 years- they em-
braced for several minutes. An older 
couple placed a red carnation at the 
base of the 14-foot, V -shaped marble 
memorial, which was engraved with 
the names of 55 men lost in Vietnam. 
One was their son. Veterans and the 
family members of those killed in 
action made up most of the audience at 
the emotional ceremony to dedicate the 
newly-erected monument. The New 
Haven Vietnam Veterans Memorial 
Committee, which had started 
planning the monument four years 
before, finally saw the positive effect of 
its work. "This is necessary for the 
healing 
process," 
said Howard 
Chernikoff, one of the committee's 
founders. 

Inspired by the growing number of 
Vietnam memorials nationwide, 
Chernikoff and a 
fellow 
veteran, 
Conley Monk, began working in 1983 
to build a monument in New Haven. 
Chernikoff and 
Monk quickly 
recruited five others, and together they 
formed the memorial committee. None 
of the committee members had had 
experience organizing such a large 
project. When they first proposed their 
plan, they were met with skepticism. 
According to Chernikoff, "Those city 
officials didn't think that we could do 
it." In 1984, the committee showed the 
.'City its design for the memorial and 
proposed Long Wharf as a possible 
site. It knew it had won the city's 
approval when a section of Long 
Wharf was renamed the Vietnam 
Veterans War Memorial Park. After 
hard lobbying, the committee also 
received four loans of $12,000 apiece 
from the city of New Haven and its 
ol The New Journal/Decernber 2 , 1988 
neighbors. 

Next came the hardest part of the 
committee's work. For two years, it 
searched the cities' records and found 
the names of the 53 local men killed in 
action and 2 missing in action. The 
committee lasted through this arduous 
process, and in early November, a 
crowd including Representative Bruce 
Morrison and New H aven Mayor 
Biagio DiLieto attended the dedication 
ceremony. 

The ceremony, honoring their lost 
friends and family members, drew 
almost 400 people in the midst of a 
downpour, a testimony to the com-
mittee's success in healing at least some 
wounds of the war. A few people 
speculated on the meaning of the "V" 
itself. "People believe it stands for 
different things: 
victory, veterans, . 
Vietnam," said Chernikoff. "I like 
valor. But for everyone, you just have 
to measure it from your heart and go 
from there." People left the dedication 
site, glad that their loved ones had 
finally been honored. But not all of the 
veterans who served in the Vietnam 
war had received recognition. 

The committee's next project will be 
to honor the soldiers who survived that 
war. Committee members hope · to 
engrave the names of the 3,000 living 
Vietnam veterans from the New 
Haven area on another wall at the 
memorial site. In an unprecedented 
decision, the committee will include 
soldiers with other than honorable 
disch arges. In the past, 
public 
memorials have only included the 
names of honorably discharged 
veterans. 

But, 
according to 
Chernikoff, the committee departed 
from this practice because its members 
felt 
that the 
military 
unfairly 
discharged some soldiers. Many were 
dishonorably gischarged for drug use, 
a past policy now in review. When this 
new monument is finally built, the 
committee will have recorded history 
as well as made it. 
• 


**Title: Riling a Need**
**Author: Barry Shimmeifarb**
**Page number(s): 5**

Riling a Need 
Escalating rents, fierce competitiOn, 
and deteriorating neighborhoods all 
make housing a consuming worry for 
many New Haven families. Seventy-
eight percent of all families in the city 
fall into the moderate-to-low income 
category, and most of these families 
are paying more rent than they can 
afford. By federal standards a family 
should not pay more than 30 percent of 
its income in rent. But for many New 
Haven families, 50 to 70 percent of 
their 
income goes for 
that very 
purpose. And families find their rents 
skyrocketing. "You never know when 
your rent's going to go up," said Glenn 
Ellis, a resident of New Haven's 
Newhallville neighborhood. 

W ithin 
two years Ellis' rent rose $200. High 
rents make it difficult for families to 
save the several 
thousand dollars 
needed for a down payment on a 
house. Even if they could make such a 
payment, houses are scarce on the 
New H aven market. 

The city has been trying to combat 
high rents and the housing shortage 
with the innovative Intil Housing 
program. As part of the city's lnfil 
program, non-profit developers build 
duplex houses on vacant lots in some of 
New Haven's ~ ost run-down neigh-
?orhoods. The city then offers low-
Interest loans to help moderate-income 
families finance the houses. These 
families must agree 
to certain 
conditions before they can take part in 
the Inftl program. They must rent the 
~pstai rs unit of the duplex to a low-
Income family, and they must live in 
the ~ouse for at least 15 years. By 
~reatmg these rules, the city hopes to 
mcr~~se low-income housing and bring 
stabhty to the neighborhoods it has 
targeted: Newhallville, D ixwell, and 
the H ill. 

.Home ownership, the city believes, 
Will stabilize these neighborhoods that 
have deteriorated partly from the 
inattention of absentee landlords. 
They let their buildings fall apart 
because they regard their property 
only as a means to make a profit, said 
Leo Quigley, the acting director of 
Research and Planning of the city's 
Office of Housing and Neighborhood 
Development. 

"Home owners, how-
ever, take greater pride in maintaining 
their property and are more likely to be 
active and concerned 
for their 
neighborhood ," he said . H e hopes that 
this concern will translate into a safer, 
more attractive environment. 

It will take a long time to create this 
environment at the present rate of 
construction . In the three years since 
the program began , the city has 
completed only 25 Infil houses and is 
in the process of constructing 100 
more. It had originally hoped to build 
271 homes. But difficulty acquiring 
vacant lots has delayed construction. 
W hen the program ·started, there were 
a number of property owners who 
owed back taxes on their vacant lots. 
When the back taxeS exceed the value 
of the property, the city can foreclose 
on the lots and use them for its own 
purposes. As word of the city's plans to 
revitalize 
the 
neighborhoods got 
around, property values went up, and 
property owners began to pay ofT their 
back taxes to keep the city from taking 
their lots. 

Quigley is frustrated with these 
property owners because he thinks 
they are ignoring the community's 
housing needs. Many of the owners let 
their lots go unused so they can sell 
them for a profit after property values 
rise, he said. Despite a setback, the city 
is still trying to build the original 
number of houses by using more 
drastic methods. This year it has had 
to purchase lots in order to continue 
building. 

A few lucky families have already 
moved into their new homes. Glenn 
Ellis and his family settled in last 
month. Ellis pays nearly the same 
amount in mortgage payments as he 
used to pay in rent, but now he has his 
own backyard, more living space, and 
no more 
worries about escalating 
rents. Ellis' 
housing problems are 
over, and if the city can rework its Infil 
program, other families can soon move 
in . 


**Title: An Historic Move**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

An Historic Move 
From the outside, the Connecticut 
Afro-American Historical Society 
(CAH S) in New Haven looks like any 
other small house on Orchard Street. 
Inside, 
portraits of famous black 
scientists, singers, and cowboys hang 
alongside old photographs of New 
H aven's neighborhoods. Swords and 
helmets from the Civil and World 
Wars lie in a display case. A space 
heater labors beside a filing cabinet 
filled with old newspaper clippings, 
black history pamphlets, and diaries 
donated by New Haven families. 

CAHS, the oldest ethnic historical 
society in New Haven, serves as a 
museum and 
library for the 
community. A 25-member board of 
directors runs the organization, and 
volunteers lead 
tours 
for 
school-
children and help. a;:; ;esearch. "We 
preserve our history for our children, to 
give 
them 
a 
little 
pride," 
Edna 
Carnegie, the society's caretaker, says. 
She points to the society's motto on a 
hand-lettered sign: "Protecting Our 
Future by Preserving the Past." 

Ernest Saunders, an amateur his-
torian and New Haven's first black 
civil engineer, founded the society in 
1971 with his personal collection of 
photographs and documents. 
His 
neighbors and friends added their own 
historical artifacts to the collection and 
began meeting regularly. The society's 
hold ings continue to expand as families 
donate letters, clothing, and anything 
else of interest. 

This year, CAH S joined New 
Haven's Jewish and Italian historical 
societies in planning a cooperative 
archive for the city's various ethnic 
groups. To further this five-year

The New J ournaUDecember 2, 1988 5 


**Title: Letters To the Editors**
**Author: Elizabeth Wein (SM '86)**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Letters 
To the Editors, 
I was almost moved to tears by Brent 
Robbins' When Riglu Is Incorrect (TN], Oc-
tober 21, 1988). What a terrible picture 
he paints! Now I know that he or she is 
brave and pathetic, bloody but unbowed, 
part of a scorned and reviled minority 
"embattled" in an overwhelming surge of 
rampant liberalism. 

Take me seriously, now: my main 
praise for TN] has always been for its 
lack of bias. Its contributors seem (or 
seemed) to make an effort to present as 
many sides of an issue as possible, and to 
apologize for any lack of information. 
Robbins, in his whining self-pity, is guilty 
of precisely that fault which he attributes 
to those ruthless, thoughtless liberals: He 
fails to fully understand his opponent's 
position. In fact, the "opponent" he rails 
against is so vast and vague that it would 
be impossible for anyone to understand 
it. He lumps all conceivably liberal 
groups and individuals into one amor-
phous category, and damns them all. 

It would be· petty and immensely bor-
ing for me to launch into a detailed 
criticism of Robbins' statement, so I will 
make only two more points. First, in the 
recent election the United States of 
America proved itself staunchly conser-
vative and comfortably in line with 
everything Robbins believes those teem-
ing liberals are trying to jeopardize. Se-
cond, except in ferociously communist 
regimes, "conservatives" are not and 
never have been persecuted. If Robbins 
thinks he and his fellows are being 
treated unfairly, I can only respond with 
derision and scorn that I have never 
heard anything so ridiculously childish in 
my entire life. When he graduates and 
leaves the sequestered cloisters of the 
University he will probably realize that in 
what is laughingly known as "the real 
world" he is no longer a member of a 
minority. 

Sincerely, 
Elizabeth Wein (SM '86) 
7lt NntJjftlnMI c-ncoura~slctccn ro the ntuor and comnwnt on 
YUr and New Have-n iuu~. Write to Man.ha Brant, Editorials. 
686 Yale Stac~n . N~ Haven, CT 06~20. All lcucn for pubh· 
t:UIQft muse include address and signatu~. TJ.t Nrw JftU"UUI 
r'Hcrvc-s the rigbl 10 edit an ~nc:rs ror pubiKa t~n .


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Julie Hantman**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Between the Vines/Julie Hantman 
Out of Focus 
I threaded my way to a seat in the 
back, late as usual. I sat down with my 
family, welcomed by friend's waves 
and the rustling of prayer book pages. 
As always, I was glad to be home for 
Rosh Hashanah services. Yet when 
Rabbi Louis Sigel (SM '45, GRD '46) 
started his sermon, I was unprepared 
for- his words. Invoking images of 
empty evening classes and poorly at-
tended Sabbath services, he chastised 
each of us for becoming what he called 
"the ignorant Jew." I glanced down at 
my prayer book, which for years had 
spoken for me in familiar yet incom-
prehensible Hebrew. Although I had 
celebrated holidays for so long, I had 
learned no more 
about them. 

Ten days later, I attended Yale's 
Yom Kippur services at Dwight Cha-
pel. Rabbi James Po net (TO '68) gave 
a sermon entitled "Shall We Build a 
Hillel House?" in which he confronted 
the assembled students, faculty, and 
community members with Yale Jewry's 
"corporate invisibility." Only weeks 
before, New Haven Architect Harold 
Roth (GRD '57) had finished plans for 
a Hillel House, a Jewish center for 
religious, 
cultural, and social 
activities to be built on High Street. 
Six years of discussion with Ponet had 
produced a design for a five-story 
building, which when finished would 
cost $8 million. Insufficient finances 
and fears 
of ghettoization 
have 
continued to delay the process. 

Meanwhile, Jewish life on campus 
remains unfocused. Although 30 percent 
of Yale College is Jewish, few Jews 
practice their religion regularly, and 
few actively explore their cultural 
heritage. Rabbi Ponet was calling for a 
facility that would muster Jewish 
resources, 
attract broader par-
ticipation, and galvanize the Jewish 
community. A Hillel House would 
provide a chance for personal and 
academic research. In a collegiate 
setting such as Yale's, these goals are 
appropriate. 

Opportunities do·exist on campus to 
explore different aspects of Judaism. 
Over the last decade, Yale has de-
veloped an acclaimed Judaic Studies 
program, attracting visiting scholars 
from around the world. When I en-
tered Yale, 
I 
intended to take 
advantage of the department's. 
interdisciplinary offerings. Yet each 
year I crossed them off my list, in favor 
of cour_ses like "The Victorian Novel" 
and "Elementary 
Portugese." Last 
semester a v1siting professor offered 
what was essentially a history of my 
ancestors, "TheJewish Community in 
Poland-Lithuania 1500-1800." But I 
didn't take it- perhaps deterred by the 
thought of cramming for an exam in 
"Identity 101." 

Professor 
David Ruderman, an 
historian and ordained rabbi, offers a 
course called "Jewish Intellectual 
History in the Modern Era," which 
deals with issues of contemporary 
Jewish faith and 
identity. "The 
material is so rich, so pregnant with 
meaning, it affects Jews and non-Jews 
alike," Ruderman said. In last spring's 
class, however, 
Ruderman fielded 
questions from the Jewish students of a 
volume and intensity he had rarely 
experienced. Although 
pleased to 
respond to the wide range of queries, 
at some point Ruderman had to stick 
to his role as academician. "Pve got to 
draw the line somewhere," Ruderman 
said. "That's where Hillel comes in." 

Professor Paula Hyman, chairwoman 
of the Judaic Studies Advisory Com-
mittee, 
explained, 
"The 
academic 
program is not defined to meet the 
cultural and religious needs of Jewish 
students. Judaic Studies is an aca-
demic address." 

But the social, cultural, and reli-
gious needs of Jewish students have 
numerous addresses: There are as 
many locations as there are groups. 
Orthodox services take place in the 
Branford College Chapel, and Reform 
services use the Branford Mendell 
Room. According to Abby Bernstein 
(PC '92), who leads song for the 
Reform services, each service 
competes with the bells ringing in 
Harkness 
tower. 
Reform Jewish 
Students at Yale holds its meetings in a 
Trumbull seminar room. And non-
credit classes in Yiddish, Arabic, and 
Introduction to Judaism are offered in 
Phelps 
Hall 
or 
in 
Rabbi 
Ponet's basement. The only permanent 
address for these and other events is 
underground, at B004 Bingham-a 
few small offices with exposed ceiling 
pipes. From here the B'nai B'rith Hillel 
Foundation at Yale coordinates under-
graduate and graduate organizations, 
three denominational ser.vices, 
lectures, and social functions. With 
piles of mailings and books in every 
corner, it can hardly accommodate the 
few people who use it. 

The only specifically Jewish place 
where Jews can gather is also under-
ground: The student-run Kosher Kit-
chen operates underneath the Film 
Studies Department on Crown Street. 

When my rabbi from home entered 
Yale in 1941 , during a period of overt 
anti-Semitism, there were no means to 
keep kosher on campus. Since the· 
University made no provisions for 
Jewish customs, he was forced to 
improvise. The Dean of Freshmen 
reminded him, "Yale did not look for 
you. You looked for Yale." In 1962, 
reports Dan Oren in joining the Club: A 
History of Jews and Yale, 
a Yale 
freshman, who graduated from the 
modem Orthodox Yeshiva of Flat-
bush, New York, became the first 
undergraduate to buy a dining con-
tract at the Kosher Kitchen. "By the 
mid-60's, members of the Kosher 
Kitchen wer:e traveling back to their 
high schools . . . to recruit more 
applicants," Oren writes. "The 
reputation that Yale had once shared 
with Princeton of being hostile to Jews 
began to fade into memory." But 
today, the Flatbush Yeshiva encour-
ages its alumni to attend Princeton, 
which boasts a popular kosher eating 
club run by the university. Yale's 
student-run Kosher Kitchen can 
barely support itself on its dwindling 
membership; to meet expenses, 
student officers have to depend on 
bagel brunches to pay their bills. 

Eric Fisher (SY '92) is the only active 
freshman in the Kosher Kitchen. An 
alumnus of Flatbush Yeshiva, he 
ignored his alma mater's endorsement 
and carne to Yale, believing that its 
Jewish life would provide greater 
fluidity than the Orthodox-dominated 
life at Princeton. Although that vision 
has held true, Fisher sees opportunity 
for a more vital Jewish community. 

While Friday night Shabbat dinners 
attract up to 100 people, many stu-
dents' sole reminder of their Jewish 
heritage con&ists of a monthly trek out 
to Crown Street for cream cheese and 
lox. 



**Ct.own.Ri9fi1let1**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
Ct.own.Ri9fi1let1 
283 CROWN ST. NEW HAVEN, CT. 624-4869 6:30AM·3PM.M·F 
Stressed out from exams? 
Come in for a quiet breakfast or lunch. 
Happy Holidays!


**Yale's Keeper**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 12**

Yale's Keeper 
David Greenberg 
Few students know "just what the 
provost does. That ignorance belies the 
impact that this administrator, second 
only to Yale's president, has on student 
life. Despite the provost's importance, 
the job is nebulous. As the "chairman 
of the Budget Committee, responsible 
for the allocation of roughly a half-
billion dollars, the provost must be 
constantly frugal; as the chief academic 
officer of the University, the provost 
must simultaneously 
foster 
Yale's 
educational 
viSion. 
This curious 
mixture of hard realities and lofty goals 
makes the post difficult to define. 

Frank Turner, however, professor of 
history and provost since last spring, 
has a clear conception of his role: It is 
not to struggle between two conflicting 
tasks, but to synthesize them. If 
Turner can show that the financial 
preoccupations of the job do not eclipse 
its educational side, 
the 
Yale 
community may begin to see the 
provost less as a budget-burdened 
administrator and more as a public 
spokesperson. 

Bill Brainard, 
professor of 
economics and provost from 1981 to 
1986, refers to the post as the "Keeper 
of the Common." "The provost looks 
out for the broad interests of the 
University. He's responsible for the 
whole, not the particular," he said. The 
provost's 
duties range from 
con-
sidering tenure appointments to 
implementing new academic programs 
to maintaining the University's 
physical resources. He oversees the 
deans of Yale's 
graduate and 
professional schools, as well as the 
dean of Yale College. In addition, he 
must take care of the odds and ends 
that no one else handles. "You have to 
define the provost's job negatively," 
said Georges May, Sterling professor 
of French and Brainard's predecessor. 
"Together, 
the provost and the 
president are responsible for the whole 
operation. The provost does whatever 
the president doesn't do." 

But in · certain situations the 

provost's role is unclear. For the 
professional schools, the provost acts as 
a "super-dean," as May put it. A 
professor in the Yale Medical School, 
for example, reports any problems to 
his own dean, consulting the provost 
only when necessary. A professor in 
the history department, however, 
could raise her concerns either to the 
dean of Yale College, the dean of the 
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences 
or to the provost. The situation is often 
confusing because all three figures 
fulfill the same function. William 
Nordhaus, professor of economics and 
provost from 1986 to 1988, thinks that 
Yale ought to have one dean for the 
faculty of arts and sciences, like many 
other universities. "The creation of the 
post would give greater coherence to 
everyone's job," Nordhaus said. 

The provost's most clearly defined 
task is 
overseeing the university 
budget. May says that in recent years 
the budget has become more difficult 
to control and consumes much of the 
provost's attention. He entered office 
after a period when the University was 
overspending. "When I was provost," 
he said, "my first task was to balance 
the budget. We were under orders 
from the Corporation. I spent a lot 
more time on it than perhaps I would 
have liked." The federal government 
now 
regulates the 
University's 
budgeting of such expenses as main-
tenance of the libraries, computer 
centers, 
and laboratories. 
Because 
these strictly regulated costs make up a 
large proportion of the overall budget, 
the provost must devote a lot of time 
trying to maneuver around them. 

Brainard and Nordhaus, the last two 
provosts, are both economics pro-
fessors. As Nordhaus pointed out, 
"There are advantages to the provost's 
being an economist. You're com-
fortable with budgets since you deal 
with them professionally. It's sort of a 
fringe benefit to the University." 

Brainard agreed that the provost ought 
to be "numerate." He explained, "Of 
course, he doesn't have to be an 
economist, but he can't be someone 
who's scared of numbers." 

Frank Turner, a professor of British 
intellectual history, seems like an 
atypical choice for provost. Spread 
sheets and investment portfolios are 
not his area of expertise. 
His 
enthusiasm for the humanities stems 
from a long involvement with liberal 
education. "I grew up in a small college 
town, my wife teaches at Connecticut 
College, and I attended William and 
Mary as an undergraduate," Turner 
said. He expects his students and 
colleagues to take their academics 
seriously. He has told students in one 
of his classes that they ought to laugh 
when reading Adam Smith's Wealth of 
Nations, weep over Edmund Gosse's 
Father and Son. 

Judy Federbush (SY '89), whose 
senior essay on Roman history in 19th-
century England was inspired by 
Turner's class, 
praised his com-
mitment to the study of ideas. "I think 
he mourned the demise of a kind of 
broad and comprehensive humanistic 
education, of learning for learning's 
sake," she said. Turner believes that 
when students take a real interest in 
their studies, they learn through their 
emotional responses. "Students should 
be really engaged in the material. We 
don't just teach subjects, we teach 
students," he explained. "You react. 
Then you think about the reaction. 
Why does it anger you, thrill you, 
sadden you? Why do others feel that 
way?" Turner believes that one should 
read Adam Smith not only for the 
historical significance, but also because 
"he's worth reading." 

Turner's passion for learning 
translates into rigid academic expec-
tations. 
Some students have had 
trouble living up to his standards. 
Aaron Levin OE '89), who took British 
intellectual history last fall, said, "' 
definitely didn't laugh when I read 
Adam Smith. I sort of snored." Some 
undergraduates find Turner's attitude



**Title: The New Provost**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
old-fashioned, 
idealistic, 
or even 
pompous. Levin recalls that Turner 
would joke about reading obscure 
British thinkers in order to discuss 
them at cocktail parties. "The thing is 
that was almost too true to be laughed 
at," Levin said. Turner's old-world 
view of education affected his grading 
policy as well. "He was not very lenient 
with papers. If he keeps his deadlines 
the way he enforces them, he'll be a 
very good bureaucrat," he said. 


May believes that although Turner 
is an historian 
rather 
than an 
economist, he shares many qualities 
with previous provosts. "Brainard, 
Nordhaus, and Turner are all of the 
same mold," May said. "They all 
worked their way up at Yale from 
graduate students to full professors. 
They're all Yale men. The similarities 
are more important than the dif-
ferences." According to Gaddis Smith, 
Larned 
professor of history, 
the 
University ·chose Turner as provost 
partly because of his administrative 
experience. In 1983 and 1984, Turner 
served as chairman of the Ad Hoc 
Committee on the Yale College 
Executive Committee, and revamped 
the procedures of that disciplinary 
body. Donald Kagan, professor of 
history, also praised Turner for his 
work in positions of academic 
leadership. "He was a great Director of 
Undergraduate Studies in the history 
department," said Kagan. Turner ran 
both the history junior seminar and the 
senior essay programs from 1975 to 
1978. Turner proved "a hell of a good 
administrator," according to Kagan, 
and the University felt that Turner's 
decisions had shown balance and 
judgment. 


A recent policy issued from the 
provost's office showed Turner's ability 
to bring his 
administrative skills 
together with his educational goals. As 
of this fall, faculty can eat lunch in the 
dining halls during the week for free. 
"There are certain things which cost 
some money which should be done," 
Turner said. "One thing that makes 
Yale unique is its amazingly free 
interaction between 
faculty 
and 
students, freer than at many small 
liberal arts schools. This decision is 
very much in line 
with 
Yale's 
tradition." 


This new program may indicate the 
direction Turner will take the office of 
provost. "It's important for me to 
remember what the larger effort is all 
about and to try to convey that to other 
people. I don't see myself as simply a 
functionary," he said. Gaddis Smith 
feels that Turner's historical 
training may help him integrate the 
various duties of the provost. "History 
is suited to teach the connectedness of 
alJ things. The historian cannot have 
tunnel-vision." To maintain a broad 
vision amid the mundane tasks of his 
bureaucratic job may 
require 
of 
Turner the same quality that allows 
him to find humor when reading 
Adam Smith. 
• 
David Grem~g is a junior rn Berlcehy 
College. 
The New Journal/December 2, 1988 13


**Title: Playing the Game**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 15**

A gargantuan stuffed blue sailfish 
hovers high above Tom Migdalski, 
Yale's assistant athletic director for 
club sports. On a wooden bookcase 
below the fish rest a badly chipped polo 
mallet, three riflery trophies, a well-
worn copy of The Moose Boolc, and a 
tarnished silver bowl from an ancient 
skiing victory. In the 40 years since the 
club sport system was founded by 
Migdalski's father, the program has 
grown from one club, the fishing team, 
to the current 25. 


Today's club sports range from team 
handball and TaeKwonDo to croquet 
and triathlon. They attract a large and 
diverse 
group of students, 
but 
University support Jags far behind 
The New Journal/December 2, 1988 IS



**Title: Yale Club Sports: A Balancing Act**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
student enthusiasm. Since Yale fully 
funds 35 varsity teams as well as a 
33-sport 
intramural 
program, 
the 
athletic department can offer only 
scant financial assistance to the clubs. 
"In terms of facilities and funding, club 
sports are third on the administration's 
list, behind varsity and intramurals," 
Migdalski said. "The budget for club 
sports at Yale is $12,800 a year. 
There's only so much we can do with 
that money." Most teams get between 
$250 and $500 annually. Some of the 
larger clubs, like rugby and men's 
volleyball, get closer to $1 , 000. 

Club sports also tend to lose out 
whenever conflicts arise over facilities. 
The badminton team complains that 
its traditional Sunday time slot has 
been usurped by an aerobics class. The 
kayaking team needs a place in Payne 
Whitney Gymnasium to practice 
eskimo rolls. The ultimate Frisbee club 
fumes over tailgaters who leave broken 
glass and bits of aluminum strewn 
around the parking fields where the 
club holds its games. 

In spite of economic problems and 
bureaucratic hassles, club sports thrive 
at Yale, allowing students to pursue a 
variety of esoteric athletic interests. 
"Club sports offer a whole range of 
opportunities not given by varsity. 
They widen the scope of athletics at 
Yale 
wonderfully," said Larry 
Matthews, associate athletic director 
for non-varsity sports. 

Some teams consider club-sport 
status an ideal arrangement while 
others resent the University's refusal to 
award them higher standing. Men's 
rugby, Yale's largest non-varsity team, 
functions smoothly as a club sport. 
The organization boasts 50 players, 
membership in 
a 
regional 
rugby 
union, 
and an 
alumni 
association. 
The men's 
volleyball 
team, 
however, 
feels 
trapped- by 
club 
ranking. The team's athletic status 
severely restricts ability to compete 
with varsity programs at other schools. 

In 1978, men's volleyball was a 
varsity sport. One year later, the 
athletic department dropped the team 
from varsity to club. The team tried 
for eight years to regain its varsity 
status, but acting Athletic Director 
Donald Kagan disappointed the club 
last year by deciding that an additional 
varsity team 
would be fiscally 
impossible. "That pretty much left us 
in the dust," lamented Mike Walsh 
(SY '89). Trained only by a volunteer 
coach, the club works hard to match 
the caliber of its varsity opponents, 
practicing two hours every day, five 
days a week, from October until April. 
"We 
have varsity 
intensity and 
ambition but only a club's budget and 
status," Walsh said. 

Especially frustrating to the 
volleyball players are National 
Collegiate Athletics Association 
(NCAA) regulations that bar club 
teams from 
competing in local 
invitational tournaments. "The 
invitations come," Walsh said, "but we 
have to turn them down because we 


--- Page 17 ---

aren't varsity." The team is also 
ineligible for the NCAA champion-
ships held at the end of the season. 
Regardless of its success, the club must 
settle for participation in the Ivy 
tournament or the club championship 
tournament, in which it placed second 
in 1987 and fourth last year. 

Perhaps most discouraging to the 
team, the University has deferred 
reinstating the "club-varsity" athletic 
category, an intermediate classification 
that existed from 1984 to 1986. This 
special arrangement would make it 
possible for a club to participate in 
varsity events, hut would not require 
the University to make an additional 
financial commitment. Currently, the 
club-varsity option remains frozen, 
pending an examination 
by new 
Athletic Director Edward Woodsum 
(YC '53). "We've had three athletic 
directors in three years," explained 
Migdalski. "Mr. Woodsum wants to 
examine the option carefully before 
reinstating it." In the meantime, the 
volleyball team must wait. 

Although some teams want varsity 
standing, others feel that the club sport 
option best suits their needs. "I don't 
have any problem with our status," 
said George Marshman (SM '89), rugby 
team president. "There are things we 
want from the University that they won't 
give us, but this team couldn't function 
the way we want it to on the varsity 
level." Unlike varsity teams, athletic 
clubs have latitude to shape their own 
activities. If the rugby players-known 
widely for their high spirits- want to 
toast God, country, and Yale after 
every successful serum, no one at the 
club sport office will interfere. 


**Title: Club Sports at Yale**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
much money as we can." Although 
numbers vary, 
most 
clubs 
have 
between ten and fifteen participants. 

Lastly, the athletic department gives 
preference to older clubs when 
distributing funds. During a club's first 
year , Migdalski provides facilities but 
will not give any money. As a club 
becomes older and better-established, the 
University expands its commitment. 
This emphasis on club age and size 
angers some team members, especially 
those from new, ambitious clubs. 
Because the cycling team is relatively 
new and 
low 
in 
numbers, 
the 
U niversity gives the club only $200. 
K en Obel (ES '91), team treasurer, 
complains that this policy puts the team 
in a Catch-22. To get more money, the 
club must prove that it can support a 
larger team. successfully, but to support 
a larger team it needs more money. 
A11ociate Ath letic D irector Larry 
M a tthew s 
Lacking sufficient university 
support, clubs must be resourceful in 
financing their activities. To begin 
with, 
nearly every club collects 
membership fees, and most require 
participants to buy their own 
uniforms. In order to alleviate the 
remaining financial burden, many 
clubs run fundraisers or engage in 
part-time work related to their sports. 
Sailing club members give lessons to 
novice sailors and act as counselors in 
Yale's summer sailing academy. The 
men's volleyball team parks cars at 
home football games. Last winter the 
rugby team co-sponsored a Feb Club 
party at The Octagon, a New York 
City discotheque. 

Some fundraising efforts clashed with 
the University's bureaucracy. Last 
year, when the ultimate Frisbee club 
wanted to sell Frisbees, the University 
told the club it would have to conduct 
all sales through the Yale Student 
Agencies. After team captain Philip 
Weiss (SM '89) learned that these 
agencies would automatically take a 
_..,...,.....,_.....,....,.------. -. third of the profits, he called the 
§ venture ofT. "Sometimes it seems like 
~ the University is on our side and 
~ sometimes it seems like they're not," 
~ Weiss said. 

Larry Matthews, sounding like a 
£ coach psyching up his team, stressed 
iii that each club must take responsibility 
~ for its own survival. "You've gotta 
~ 
..u learn to hustle a little bit," he said. 
Mike Walsh, however, regrets the 
sacrifices his club must make. "For the 
volleyball team to stay abreast of the 
competition, we've got to cut corners," 
he said. But regardless of their con-
flicting viewpoints, administrators and 
members of athletic clubs agree on the 
source of the program's 
inc~asing . 
momentum- a persistent demand for 
club sports at Yale. 

Josh Plaut is a sophomore zn Timothy 
Dwight College. 


**Title: Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity at Yale**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

appear out 
dress in black from their berets to their 
boots. They march in a tight file, stare 
straight ahead, turn at right angles, 
and sj>eak to no one. 

They are Sphinxmen, pledges of the 
Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity. Founded 
at Cornell University in 1906, Alpha 
Phi Alpha was the first black collegiate 
Greek society in the United States. 
The Zeta chapter of the society formed 
at Yale in 1909, making it the first 
black fraternity on campus. Since 
then, in the changing social and racial 
climate of the University, 
-
fraternity has suffered through a 
of disbandments and renewals. 
current manifestation of the 
became active in 1983, after a six 
hiatus. Approaching the year 
eightieth anniversary of its founding. 
the Zeta chapter will induct nine 
pledges this semester. The vu""'"' 
were "on line" for a month-and-a-
amid a questioning, and someti 
critical, student body. 

The Alpha pledge process make~ 
fraternity 
visible 
and 
unifies 
members. The process resembles 
of Yale's three other black 


espec1ally 
Alpha Psi, the other black fraternity on 
campus. The Kappas wear red berets 
and have been at Yale since 1985. 

Pledging tests the stamina u.nd 
dedication of the Sphinxmen, who 
must forego parties. movies, sex, .und. 
frequently, sleep. "hs len~th is what 
draws one's commitment to the 
organization over a lifetime," said Rich 
Roberts (SY '87, LAW '89), who 
pledged in his sophomore year. "You 
become one with your line brothers 
through actions." 

Discipline runs 
process. The 
and ends with cu 
Dean of Pledges, 
fraternity's 
five 
current members, 
continually monitoro; the Sphinxmen's 
activities. He ensures that the pledges 
attend their classes nnd keep their 
grades up. He fills their free time with 
mandatory study 
periods and 
chores-primarily errands for 
fraternity brothers. 

While on line, pledges must keep 
silent unless addressed by an Alpha 
brother. This ritual is meant to 
embody the social exclusion that blacks 
su 
"l\.1 y great grandparents in 
couldn't speak to a white person unless 
they were spoken to," explained Albert 
Lucas (BR '90), one of the current 
members of the Zeta Chapter. "You 
don't know what you have until you 
don't have it am:more. Silence is a 
constant reminde~ of your history." 

Many oo~ervers label the fraternity's 
silence and militaristic appearance as 
anti-<~ocial. While Alphas admit that 
the proces.; i-> insular they value the 
unity that tlie pledges experience. 
Alphas say that their methods arc not 



**Title: A Hard Line to Tow**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A <I> A 
intended to alienate the community, 
but rather to convey their seriousness 
and dedication. "When you're on line, 
you're on a mission," said Lucas. "So 
you try to have this look in your eye 
that nothing can get in the way of this 
mission." 

Some people have found this a hard 
line to tow. Of the 33 people who have 
pledged the Zeta chapter since 1983, 
five have quit. Marland Chancellor 
(BK '89) went on line last spring with 
only one other Sphinxman, who 
dropped after two days. This left 
Chancellor to go it alone. fie became 
responsible for fulfilling the tasks of all 
14 brothers, one of whom owned over 
30 pairs of shoes and made Chancellor 
shine them regularly. "It put a greater 
emotional strain on me. I had no one 
to turn to, no one to joke with, no one 
to watch my back." He dropped line 
after 15 days. 

Chancellor found pledging phy-
sically and mentally exhausting and 
dreaded running into an Alpha on the 
street. He sought some respite in his 
studies as a biology major. "I had to go 
up to Science Hill, and none of the 
brothers would be up there," he said, 
smiling. "It was a great incentive to go 
to class. rd stay up there all day." 

He respects the principles under-
lying the pledge process, but doesn't 
think that a one-person line serves 
their ends. "The purpose of the line is 
to draw you all closer. You're a unit. I 
wasn't drawing closer to anybody, 
certainly not to the brothers who w~re 
putting me through it," he said. He 
shook his head as he compared his 
experience with that of this year's 
pledges. "Outnumbering the brothers 
must be a comfortable feeling." 

Edward Morrow (YC '31), the oldest 
living black Yalie, pledged alone under 
different circumstances in 
1927. 

Graduate students had filled the ranks 
since the fraternity's inception, and 
they were desperate for undergraduate 
members. When Morrow transferred 
from the University of South Dakota, 
he 
was one of only four black 


**Title: Alpha Phi Alpha**
**Author: Kirk Semple**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
community projects, including a 
Youth Action Program for high school 
dropouts, a March of Dimes program 
on unwanted pregnancies, and a voter 
registration drive. "We are blacks who 
are in a position to experience the 
benefits of an institution like Yale," 
said Malcolm John (SM '89), a mem-
ber of Alpha Phi Alpha. "It would be a 
crime if we didn't help advance our 
community." 

When pledges cross line to join the 
fraternity, they not: only become part 
of this history, they·.enter into perhaps 
the most powerful network of pro-
fessional blacks in the country. The 
Four of the five Alph a members: "They pride themselves on being the fraternity of 
the real race leaders." 


**Title: Labor Management**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At Yale, when academia merges with parenthood, having a child becomes a political issue.


Susanne Wofford's colleagues see her as a pioneer. An assistant professor in the English department, she gave birth to her son, Gabriel, in mid-semester. In doing so, Wofford broke with Yale's unspoken wish that faculty members have children without interrupting their teaching schedule. Although her baby arrived three-and-a-half weeks early, Wofford fortunately suffered no serious health complications and only missed four weeks of classes. In her case, Yale was lucky. The English Department took up the slack for Yale's deficient maternity policy. When it comes to scheduling children, faculty par'f!nts must plan around Mother Yale. 
At Yale, when academia merges with parenthood, having a child becomes a political issue. Untenured instructors face pressure to make their mark as scholars in a flXed amount of time. Members of the faculty can spend at most seven years as assistant professors, and in that time must do substantial research and writing to prove eligible for promotion. period usually falls within prime childbearing years, when faculty members are between their late twen-ties and mid-thirties. During this time, untenured instructors are most vul-nerable in their jobs. Junior faculty members can't afford to make waves and may feel that having children at all would jeopardize their standing. 
The politics of pregnancy center on maternity leave. The Yale faculty handbook poorly articulates the guidelines for leaves related to child-birth. It addresses childbearing under the same rubric as temporary disability from illness or accident. The handbook states: "Faculty members are expected to try to complete the academic term they have begun." Such a statement reflects the University's sentiment that faculty members should plan childbirth around summers or fellowship leaves-paid breaks from teaching duties that allow faculty to research and write. But the policy doesn't get any more specific. The University allocates no set time for a maternity leave, forcing individual departmental heads to make arrangements case-by-case. "Although there is certainly a goodwill attempt among the depart-ments to help out, that isn't a political solution," said Jennifer Wicke, associate professor of English and Comparative Literature. 
From the University's point of view, maternity leaves disrupt the academic schedule. If a ·mother takes six weeks off to give birth and recover in the middle of the semester, a replacement teacher must come in, and students have to adjust to an instructor who didn't design the course. 
Arrangements for Susanne Wofford's leave were improvised by Wofford and English Department Chairman Richard Brodhead. Pur-suing the available options -together, they found the leave policy difficult to follow, and Brodhead contacted the Provost's office for advice. The office provided him with a flXed sum for a substitute instructor. In Wofford's case, the Provost's office granted the equivalent of one term's salary for a teaching assistant (I' A) for English 129. Wofford divided this money be-tween her two courses and aimed for a leave of three to four weeks. Now that she has had the baby, Wofford says she would have preferred six weeks to re-cuperate, the standard time doctors suggest for a new mother to recover from a pregnancy. But in the best in-terests of her students and in fairness to her replacement, Wofford arranged to miss a minimal amount of time. 
Although she hasn't had difficulty returning to her classes, she has had trouble keeping up with the work she does at home. Staying up with a de-manding newborn doesn't give her the time she would like to grade papers on Paradise Lost. 
At home, Wofford shares the re-sponsibilities for Gabriel with her hus-band. In thl" university community, she faces the immediate consequences of motherhood alone. The effort to combine parenting and career remains primarily a woman's problem. 
Harriet Chessman, an untenured associate professor of English and mother of two, is married to tenured associate English professor Bryan Wolf. Together they approach the challenges of parenthood and academia as a faculty couple. But when it comes to the details of childcare, "women are still the primary caretakers of small children," Chessman said. Although men are contributing more to childcare, women still carry the child for nine months and attend to most of the newborn's immediate needs. Ac-cording to Wicke, women who are competitive within the system still fear the possible prejudice in a male-dominated university. Wofford added, "One fears that there will be the stereotype of the woman who is no longer serious about her career." In such a world, "having a child is a liability," said Margaret Ferguson, former professor of English and Com-parative Literature, now at Columbia University. 
To help them balance the childcare burden, Yale offers both parents an un-paid leave of absence of up to one semester the year of childbirth. Se-parate from the maternity-disability leave, the unpaid parental leave stops the tenure clock, freezing the race toward professorship for one term. Yet most academics cannot afford such a luxury. Wofford, for example, had to continue working because her husband is a graduate student, and her salary must support them both. 
Many women on the faculty, dis-satisfied with the undefined or unpaid leave options the University provides, try to plan their pregnancies around fellowship leaves. Faculty members who give birth during their fellowship leaves forfeit a crucial opportunity to advance their academic careers. They cannot produce as well as someone who uses the same leave for scholarly pursuits only. "You're competing at a disadvantage for tenure if you have children," Wofford said. 
Children naturally divide an academic's attention at a time when research and publishing could secure promotion or tenure. Junior faculty members have only one chance at a paid fellowship leave during their time as assistant professors. Associate professors can take a triennial leave and have access to a Senior Faculty Fellowship, which provides an extra paid semester for research. 
Harriet Chessman, having had her first child during a summer, waited to have her second child until she could take her Senior Faculty Fellowship leave. She now regrets tha·t she used up her research leave instead of chal-lenging Yale's timetable. "As an institution I don't think Yale is child-friendly," she said. "I realize now I should have worked harder to get a maternity leave with some pay, and then taken my Senior Faculty Fel-lowship after the baby was about a year old. I think I would have gotten more work done. For the first five months of the baby's life I was quite absorbed." 
While in Chessman's eyes Yale resists accommodating children, she has made




**Yale's Maternity Policies: A Struggle Between Faculty and Administration**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
space for them in her office: Crayoned 
drawings hang next to bookshelves of 
novels and poetry. 

Most faculty members who get pregnant 
don't push for paid childcare 
leaves. "Almost no one has tested the 
system," said Mary Miller, tenured 
associate professor in the History of 
Art department and mother of one. 
•Jt•s a kind of internalized pressure," 
Wicke said. "You look around, and 
everybody has done it without causing 
anybody any trouble. And you feel 'I 
should probably do that, too.'" 

Even ifjunior faculty members were 
to agitate for change, they have limited 
political clout. Effective complaints 
need to come from the tenured faculty. 
Yet while women composed 30 percent 
of the entire faculty in 1987-88, only 
7.8 percent had tenure. "The critical 
mass of tenured women that can make 
demands is small," Miller pointed out. 
Their dearth in numbers and a general 
COmpliance to the University's schedule 
give Yale little incentive 
tO 
change. "The University is spared the 
real onset of the problem because 
people are 
so self-disciplined," 
Brodhead said. "People always manage 
to have their babies on June 1st or 
during fellowship leaves." 

Not all professors bow to the will of 
the University. Margaret Ferguson 
was one of the first tenured women to 
point out Yale's deficient maternity 
policy. She left Yale in part because 
Columbia offered her a full term of 
paid maternity leave. When Ferguson 
considered accepting her new appointment, she approached the Yale 
administration with a request to match 
Columbia's offer. The administration 
argued that a paid maternity leave 
discriminates against childless faculty 
members. The Provost reasoned that 
faculty taking paid parenting leaves 
might use part of their time to conduct 
research and write, which would disadvantage 
the 
instructors 
without 
children. Miller quickly counters such 
logic. "The semester you have a baby, 
you really don't get a lot else done," she 
said. 

~In fact, you dream of sleep. 
You're not dreaming about getting 
your research done." 


**Title: Deputy Provoat Charles Long: How much is enough?**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Deputy Provoat 
Charles Long: How 
much i1 enough? 
should we be willing to pay for that? If 
that's going to cost X amount of dol-
lars, is that the right place to deliver 
those dollars?" The answers to these 
questions don't come easily. Even if the 
administration agrees with the prin-
ciples of a paid parenting leave, the 
Budget Committee must determine if 
it · is affordable. "There's no question 
that a semester's leave with pay would 
·be a big help and an attractive benefit, 
and I'm sure it would be widely used," 
Long said. "But it would be a very 
expensive 
benefit to offer." How 
expensive? Long doesn't know. He 
anticipates that the University will 
assess parenting issues in its 1989-90 
budget considerations. 

But having no solid parenting leave 
may also be expensive for Yale. To
34 The New Journal/December 2, 1988 
avoid losing professors like Margaret 
Ferguson, the University must be able 
to compete with other schools. Without 
an improved program, Yale could 
compromise the strength of its faculty. 
"Even if Yale saves a few dollars, I 
think they do themselves no favors," 
Miller said. 

Even 
though 
Yale's 
financial constraints are real, the 
Economic Report on the Status of the 
Faculty pointed out that other uni-
versities operating on budgets similar 
to Yale's have managed to take bigger 
steps in parenting policies. 

Margaret Ferguson's current em-
ployer, Columbia University, grants a 
six-month paid maternity leave with 
an option of an additional six months 
at two-thirds pay. Cornell University 
guarantees one month of maternity 
• leave with full pay, and up to six 
~ months of leave, also at full pay, with 
11: the pr'lvost's approval. Many uni-
~ versities offer paid maternity leaves in 
~ addition to a pausing of the tenure 
l clock. 

Other schools have ma~aged to cir-
j cumvent parental leaves, yet still 
~ accommodate family needs. Under a 
new policy instituted by the University 
of California (UC) system, the tenure 
clock will stop for faculty members 
who request time to take care of 
family, even if they don't take a leave. 
A full-
or part-time instructor can 
extend the pre-tenure period as much 
as a year without having to take unpaid 
time off. These extensions apply to 
aging parent care, illness in the family, 
or any familial obligations, including 
newborn childcare. Without granting a 
term's paid leave, UC acknowledges 
financial contraints that can prohibit a 
faculty member from taking a non-
salaried leave. 

As many faculty members indicate, 
even ifYale revised its policies to bring 
them more in line with other schools', 
the years following a child's infancy 
would remain unaddressed. Once the 
child is born, Yale faculty must strug-
gle to find daycare. "Daycare is a much 
deeper and broader question about 
what is the appropriate role for the 
University in childcare," Long said. 

Yale does 
provide space for six 
privately incorporated daycare faci-
lities; only two of them offer infant 
care. But competition to enroll a child 
into any one of these facilities forces 
most families to search outside of Yale, 
and even outside of New Haven. Since 
Yale does not subsidize the tuition of 
these centers, .Jhe cost of daycare, 
ranging from three to five thousand 
dollars for a ten-month period, strains an 
academic's limited resources. 

According to Long, Yale would like 
to assist with some form of childcare, 
but the expense prohibits it. Yet the 
University does help parents of older 
children, after their kids have left the 
playpen and are ready for college. Yale 
will pay half the tuition of the insti-
tution chosen by a faculty member's 
child, up to $5,450 a year. The Uni-


--- Page 35 ---

versity currently offers 
tUJtJOn 
assistance 
to 
approximately 
1,000 
students. 

What course the 
administration 
will take in the next few years as 
women gain a stronger voice on the 
faculty and men figure more noticeably 
into parental 
politics remains to 
be seen. "The next step would involve 
faculty making strong ~ recommend-
ations within their departments. It 
might have to start in a grass-roots 
kind of way," Wicke said. On the way 
an 
ideal 
policy, 
parents and 
administrators must 
make com-
promises. Instead of asking for a full 
semester leave with pay, perhaps 
faculty will settle for a well-defined six-
week maternity leave- backed by Uni-
versity assistance to find replace-
ments- part-time appointments, and 
~he semester you 
have a baby, you 
really don't get a lot 
else done. In fact, you 
dream of sleep." 
flexible teaching schedules during the 
term of childbirth. Finding a well-
suited policy for a situation that varies 
from individual to individual presents 
a challenge to the University. The 
nature of academia is that difficulty 
comes with the territory. "I don't really 
foresee the day when it will be possible 
to hold 
a 
high-prestige, 
high-
achievement job, where it is totally 
easy to devote yourself to the raising of 
your children at the same time," 
Richard Brodhead said. "I think it's a 
little unfair to expect the University to 
solve the problems of modern human 
life. But that's not to say I think they 
shouldn't be responsible to try." 

• 
Motoko Rich, a sophomore in Branford 
College, is on the staff of TNJ. 


**Title: Reconcilable Differences**
**Author: Stefanie Syman**
**Page number(s): 36**

Books/Stefanie Syman 
Reconcilable Differences 
In. the Image of God, by Stanley A. Leavy, 
Yale Universi9' Press (New Havm and 
London: 1988) 117.95, 128 pages. 

Freud fetishes abound. Yale's course 
catalogue lists no fewer than 15 classes 
that include either Freud or psycho-
analysis in their description. Hundreds 
of students absorb psychoanalytic 
theory via philosophy, literature, and 
literary 
theory, 
not to mention 
psychology. Freud occupies an undis-
puted position in the academic canon, 
but some students also encounter his 
theories directly 
by undergoing 
psychoanalysis. Whether or not we 
agree with psychoanalytic theory, it 
has so infused our culture that we 
perceive the world largely through 
Freudian terms. Freud's pen has 
replaced the hand of God in explaining 
the unexpected and irrational. But are 
religious conviction and a psycho-
analyti_c;: perspective incompatible? In 
Dr. - Stanley Leavy's book 
In 
the 
ITMge of God: A Psychoanalyst's View, he 
maintains that these two systems of 
belief can coexist. 

Leavy's central assertion appears in 
large, white letters on the cerulean blue 
cover: Human beings embody the 
image of God. At a casual glance, the 
book seems to be a theological treatise. 
Only small, almost invisible gray type 
indicates 
that the book gives a 
psychoanalyst's view. The jacket 
design is revealing. Leavy writes from 
36 The New JournaUDecember 2. 1988 
distinctly Christian perspective, 
rather than with the distance of a 
modern skeptic. Non-Christians must 
temporarily accept Leavy's religious 
premise in order to see any value in his 
project. If they do so, the book offers 
insightful 
commentaries about the 
relation between belief and psycho-
analysis. 

Although he agrees with facets of the 
psychoanalytic interpretation of 
religious experience, Leavy ultimately 
finds Freud's theories incomplete. In 
particular, he questions the definition 
of religion as the 
imagination's 
response to unfulfilled desires. He also 
disputes the psychoanalytic reduction 
of religious experience to classifiable 
mental phenomena. Freud's "psychic 
determinism," explaining all psychic 
experience in terms of early devel-
opment, limits unconscious activity to 
a repetition of the past. This view of 
human experience cannot account for 
contact 
with God. Leavy equally 
distrusts 
the common Christian 
responses to Freud. These range from 
a blunt denunciation of Freudian 
theories, to line-by-line exegeses of 
psychoanalytic texts, "with the earnest 
intention of demonstrating how they 
can be fitted with Christian meaning." 

Leavy's own method avoids both 
extremes. Each chapter of his book 
focuses upon either an emotional state 
or existential idea. Their titles, such as 
"Becoming" and "Suffering," are 
reminiscent of seventies psycho-pop 
slogans. The chapter "Loving and 
Hating" demonstrates Leavy's way of 
handling these enormous themes. He 
pits the Christian view of love as the 
philosophical source of principled 
action against the psychoanalytic view 
of love as altruism motivated by sexual 
desire. He searches for the middle 
ground. Leavy specifically objects to 
the Christian emphasis on virginity, 
which has made sexlessness an aspect 
of perfection. Here Leavy finds the 
psychoanalytic 
perspective more 
enlightening, 
for it uncovers the 
potency and omnipresence of sexuality 
in love. But he also argues with the 
way Freud uses classical mythology, 
particularly the Oedipus and Narcissus 
myths, as paradigms for love. The 
psychoanalytic interpretations of these 
myths have reduced love to a set of 
formulaic relationships. 

Ultimately, 
Leavy illuminates the point at which 
Freudian and Christian ideas about 
love merge: Both psychoanalysis and 
religion explicitly or implicitly state 
"that love for others is preferable to 
love for oneself." 

The book does more than simply 
outline overlapping areas. Leavy seeks 
a coherent alternative to the traditional 
dualism of psychoanalysis and reli-
gion. The chapter entitled "Con-
cealing" achieves this union most 
effectively. Leavy believes that human 
beings are "concealing and distorting 
by nature, as well as loving, hating, 
striving, creating beings." People 
continually disguise themselves, and 
psychoanalysis breaks down the dis-
guises. Leavy views the discovery of 
the self through psychoanalysis as 
parallel to the Christian effort to see a 
God revealed both within human 



**In the Image of God: A Review**
**Author: Paul Syman**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
beings and outside them. 

This parallel provides a justification 
for those who rush from religious 
services 
to 
meet 
their afternoon 
psychoanalyst appointment. 

Both 
psychoanalysis and religion set out to 
reveal, but they reveal different things. 
Psychoanalysis uncovers the 
indi-
vidual's unconscious while religion 
reveals the existence of God. Leavy's 
Christian premise, that man is in the 
image of God, allows him to diminish 
the initial difference between these 
revelations. Psychoanalysis, unmask-
ing man, will simultaneously unmask 
God. Leavy's argument is circular. All 
of his musings return to his one central 
tenet. 

For those who object to Leavy's 
initial assertion of faith, In the Image of 
God may seem superfluous. Does the 
Christian basis limit its relevance or 
ignore non-believers? In the sixth 
chapter, "Believing," Leavy explicitly 
addresses 
the many non-religious 
people interested in psychoanalysis. 
These people probably comprise a 
majority of his readers, since so many 
educated people today are not reli-
gious. Leavy provides a belated but 
provocative psychoanalytic inter-
pretation of this state of affairs. He 
relates the departure from faith to the 
movement from 
a 
chi ldhood 
dependency on one's parents towards 
independence and sexual maturity. 
Ironically, Leavy's Christianity 
becomes alienating only in addressing 
non-believers, when he attributes the 
current spiritual passivity to fashion. 
The book, however, will leave a 
powerful impression upon non· 
religious people who are interested in 
spiritual questions. Those seeking a 
complex interpretation of Christianity 
or psychoanalysis will be disappointed; 
those who can appreciate statements 
such as "To accomplish our desires we 
need to love and be loved ," will be 
rewarded. 

Leavy does not attempt to construct 
rigorously 
logical argument 
mapped with irreproachable ration· 
ality. Instead his thoughts take the 
form of reflection. The chapters could 
be read in almost any order without 
distorting his message. Each chapter 
was originally one of a series of lectures 
presented recently at Christ Church in 
New Haven to an audience that did 
not have extensive knowledge of 
psychoanalytic theory. Leavy avoided 
jargon-laden language, consciously 
risking oversimplification in order to 
ensure comprehensibility. 

In his 
introduction, he forewarns the reader 
of this danger. Had Leavy explicated 
each assertion, 
he would have 
diminished the fluidity of his work, 
potentially burdening the contents 
with recapitulations of complex 
Freudian theories. 
But at 
times, 
unsubstantiated 
statements do leave unanswered 
questions. 
These 
frustrating 
conceptual gaps point to the book's 
most serious problem: the vastness of 
the subjects. 
Leavy's discussions 
concern the nebulous spaces called 
heaven and the unconscious. Because 
he wishes to avoid complex ter· 
minology, his philosophizing some·
times culminates in statements that 
seem vacuous. Groping with issues as 
broad as life results in Leavy's constant, 
and insensitive, references to "man." 
This oversimplification 
belies his 
extensive experience as a psycho· 
analyst and the serious scholarship 
beneath his book . 

Despite the grandiose nature of the 
subject matter, In the Image of God is 
nt:ither self-righteous nor dogmatic. 
Leavy offers his basic life truths 
but does not trumpet his Christian 
conviction. The slim volume skips 
from 
psychoanalytic to Christian 
concepts, treating each with equal 
skepticism. 
Leavy uses the Bible 
sparingly and quotes from diverse 
10urces. His extensive notes at the 
conclusion of each chapter include 
everyone from Augustine to Noam 
Chomsky. Leavy skillfully interweaves 
W.H. 
Auden's poetry, bits of 
Heidegger's philosophy, and Aquinas' 
theology. 

M ediating between God and Freud, 
Leavy 
reveals the possibility of 
accepting a belief in both psycho-
analytic and Christian claims through 
a divine understanding of humankind. 
He takes basic aspects of human 
existence, such as love, death, and 
suffering, 
and asks what these 
experiences really are. In the I'fTIIJlt of 
God maintains that both psychoanalytic 
theory and Christianity answer this 
question, and that one system cannot 
be helpful without the other. Un-
questioned faith has little value in 
easing human experience, just as the 
most rigorous psychoanalysis cannot 
replace faith while ignoring that •any 
person is indeed made in God's image, 
Warts and all. • 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 40 ---
