Publication date: 12/07
Volume 40, Issue 3

**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 12**

needed flour to bake cookies one Sunday morning, but I was in Germany, where the stores are closed on that day. The Dutch, fortunately, believe in Sunday shopping, and I could ride ·the bus from Aachen, Germany to Vaals, Holland. Midway through the 15-minute journey, three Muslim women got on board. They seemed to float down the aisle in their black abtgas, their moving feet obscured by the cloaks that covered them from head to. toe. They took their seats opposite me, the sun shining on their black headscarves. One woman wore a niqab over her face; only her eyes glinted in the light. Another woman's exposed face sparkled with the sheen of melon-colored lipstick and layers of green eye-shadow. I found myself self-conscious of my skirt. Did they think I was immodest? Even as I scrutinized them, I worried about being judged in turn. I wondered how the woman revealing only her eyes and the woman exposing a painted face could believe in the same idea of modesty, in the same Islam. It troubled me that I thought of them as a flock, as anonymous women wearing oppressive shrouds. As a woman of color and a feminist, I was surprised to uncover the limits of my cultural understanding. In search of some 12 answers, I turned to the voices of five Muslim women at Yale. 

"""'11he watmth of Altaf's smile radiates from her expressive brown eyes as she says hello to every other person we pass on our walk. An ethnic counselor for freshmen and one of the most vocal members of the Muslim Students Association and Asian American Students Association, Alta£ is a prominent campus presence. She is half Iranian and half Iraqi, a Shia Muslim who grew up in California. When she was about 14, she chose. to wear the headscarf along with her sister. It was a decision she had often considered, one that she has reevaluated ever since. But her reasons for wearing it have only strengthened over the past eight years. ''Wearing the headscarf removed me from the world where I was constantly judged for physical reasons. And who I am as a person is more important than my physical characteristics," she says. 

The headscarf has also grounded Alta£ in her faith and brought her closer to God. When she gathers the folds around her hair every morning, she is reminded of what her faith means to her. ''I like being tied to a tradition;" Alta£ says. "In a family it is natural to wear it. You see its significance to the people you admire and care about." The headscarf, which immediately identifies her faith, connects her not only to her nuclear family but also to a larger Muslim one. "There's an immediate sense that you're Muslim. No matter where I go in the U.S., I feel like I'm going to have an immediate community." Although wearing the headscarf can subject a woman to stereotypes and racism, it has actually allowed Alta£ to confront those assumptions. "People assume that you are quiet and shy ... that the headscarf makes you anonymous," she says. "For me, it's a way of asserting my identity. But there are women who don't assert their identity and who see the headscarf as mandatory." 
Altaf is not one of them. For her, it is about choice the choice to wear the headscarf and to explore her faith and identity in relation to it. 
'--ahreen's parents are from Bangladesh, a country that is home to the world's fourth largest, mostly Sunni, Muslim population. Traditionally, Bengali Muslim women wear saris and. do not wellf the headscarf, though this pattern has changed in recent years. When Zahreen's mother immigrated to the U.S.,