Publication date: 12/07
Volume 40, Issue 3

**Dunder Mifflin Infinity: The Office Goes Viral (and Slightly Creepy)**
**Author: Miranda Popkey**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

MICHAEL SCS TT IS FOND OF REFERRING to his employees as his family. In the very first episode of NBC's The Offtc,·e - which mockuments the daily grind at the Scranton, PA branch of a fictional paper company, Dunder Mifflin the well-meaning but eternally hapless Regional Manager, faced with the threat of downsizing, addresses one (black) salesman's concerns. With his trademark combination of an embarrassing need to please and a shocking flair for the inappropriate, he announces: "I'm the head of this family, and you ain't gonna be messin' with my chillun!" On a day dedicated to educating the team about sexual harassment, he is eager to contribute. "Families grow," he says, his tone serious, his eyes radiating concern, "And, at some point, the daddy can't take a bath with the kids anymore." Turning to the receptionist who has no idea how adorable she is, he continues, "It would be inappropriate for me to take a bath with Pam, as much as I might want to." Later, sharing a private moment with the camera, he pulls out a mug that reads "World's Best Boss" a mug he bought for himself and comments, "As far as I'm concerned, this says 'World's Best Dad."' 

To a certain extent, he's right. The Office, now entering its fourth season, has become, for millions of devoted fans, an extended family a cozier, kookier, but still recognizable version of the drab, mindless day-to-day they themselves are forced to endure. And now, with the launch of Dunder Mifflin Infinity, a social networking website of sorts for Office aficionados, that family has gone virtual. 

In the current season's second episode, Ryan, the temp-cum-corporate wiinderkind, returns to Scranton to announce a plan also named Dunder Mifflin Infinity to streamline the stodgy company: the staff will receive Blackberries, and a long-awaited business-to-business website Will finally go online. Michael, threatened by technological developments, mounts a predictably ridiculous counterattack. He plasters pictures of elderly folks on the walls of the conference room, calls a meeting, and announces that new ideas, while nice in theory, are also illegal. 

I'm no Luddite, but taking a tour of the NBC-created Dunder Mifflin Infinity website, I was inclined against my better judgment to agree with Michael. Sure, it seems cute at first: you find a Dunder Mifflin "branch" close to your hometown Quneau, Alaska was lucky enough to be assigned one, but devoted Y alies will have to send their resumes to New Britain), and apply for a position. Once you're approved by your branch's Regional Manager I got a confirmation e-mail December 2007 within the hour; I'm guessing he didn't check my references you tan create a user pro@e Qist your favorite Office character! Your favorite episode! Your favorite quote!), add favorite co-workers, comment on their pro@es, upload photos and videos, and decorate your virtual desk. So far, so familiar: an Office-themed Face book. No harm in that. 

But look closer and the insular madness of devoted fandom encouraged by a healthy network thirst for . branding'---begins to assert itself. Each week NBC devises a "task," inspired by the most recently aired episode, for members to complete. Office drones earn money that leads to promotions and can be redeemed for desk supplies. 

The week after Office sweethearts Jiin and Pam spent the night at a coworker's beet-themed agrotourism destination, on-line employees were urged to download pictures from the trip--or rather, the set and digitally insert themselves. They were asked to write a "detailed" review of their own experience at the makeshift bed-and-breakfast as Jim and Pam had which branch co-workers could then vote on; the most popular review from each branch would be entered into a company-wide competition. A New Britain user named "GraphicDesignPam" seemed to have thoroughly enjoyed her unusual stay: "Every day we had a contest to see who could pick the most beets and then who could move the most manure," she raved in a review titled, "Beeter than the Rest!" "At the end of the week we all took a mud bath together, I sure hope that was mud, and then exfoliated our skin with beet jUice," she continued, her ~ imagination incorporating plot points the writers had been too shy to include. "I never knew there were so many uses for beets!" Her review received an average of four out of five stars. 

I would be lying if I said I hadn't, at several points during the couple's tender but frustrated three-season-long courtship, wished for a Jim of my own. And no, I wouldn't mind meeting Dwight, the aggressively awkward but somehow seductive B&B owner, whose only three interests appear to be bears, beets (of course), and Battlestar Galactica. Still, my on-line co-workers' eagerness to immerse themselves in a double layer of make-believe accepting not only the reality of the TV show, but joining an on-line community that both acknowledges the sitcom's fiction and pretends to be its real-world extension was somehow depressing. Don't these people already have offices filled with bored, unattractive people they get to visit every day? Are their desk jobs nqt unfulfilling enough? 

Well, maybe not. The genius of The Office as television show is that it turns the mundanely depressing the small humiliations that come with making sales calls, coffee, and copies, with being routinely unappreciated and understim,ulated into the genuinely amusing. We laugh at Kelly and Andy and Michael because we'd like to believe that they're slightly less functional, more pathetic versions of ourselves, that their office is a slightly less functional, more pathetic version of our own. But on Dunder Mifflin Infinity, we're not mocking ourselves by proxy anymore- we're just mocking ourselves. Voluntarily. 

As soon as I became an employee of the New Britain branch, the distance between Dwight and me collapsed. There was no room for irony. 

On a recent episode, ·Michael took a second job as a telemarketer for extra cash. And while there were many funny moments the culturally insensitive mid~e-manager chatting with the best salesman, a Pakistani, about his home country as a whole, it was an uncomfortable forty-two minutes. Actual financial distress: actually not that funny. Office fans taking second jobs at an on-line Office made me queasy for much the same reason. Actual job at The Office: actually not that funny. Laughing at a version of The Office that real people that you, in fact work at, is tantamount to turning to the camera and admiu ing, drink in hand, that life is never, ever, going to get any better than this. 
-Miranda Popkry