Publication date: September 4, 1998
Volume: 31
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD**
- PUBLISHER: justin Stults
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Lainie Rutkow
- MANAGING EDITORS: Daniel Katz, jessica Winter
- DESIGNER: Hrishilesh Hirway
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: David Slijta
- BUSINESS MANAGER: julia ut
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Anya E. Liftig
- ONLINE EDITOR: john Bulkeley
- ACCOUNTS MANAGER: Navin Manglani
- ASSOCIATE EDITOR: Eli Kintisch
- RESEARCH DIRECTORS: Michael Gerber, Andrew Youn
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGERS: Jim Champagne, Ronan Gilroy
- STAFF: Vanessa Agard-jona • Jo Coakley • Jason D'Cruz • Monica Kim • Gene Taft • Alex Wang • Jada Yuan
- ALUMNI DIRECTORS: Emily Baudon • Constance Demont • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Grigg • Brooks Kelley • Hillary Margolis • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Sledge • Fred Steingraber • Thomas Strong
- FACULTY: Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conover • Elizabeth Cooper • Lauren Rabin • Stephen Weisman • Daniel Yergin
- FRIENDS: Staff Bolton • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Blair Bennett • Edward W. Beall, Jr. • Edward B. Beall III • Paul S. Benka • Gerald Brandt • Barbara Bond • Jay Carney • Daphne de Marneffe • John Chase • Jonathan M. Clapp • Craig Clapp • Eli N. Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Azadar Coure • Jean and Rex Coure • Masi Damiano • Alan J. Fagan • Mrs. Harold Fagan • David Farber • Gary Fried • Amory Geelan • Sherwood Goldwasser • David Greenberg • Tom Grigg • Sheila Hellman • John Kennedy • Brooks Kelley • Ron Kitwood • Andrew J. Kaznachek, Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • Jim Levin • E. Nabila • Hank Munstedt • Martha E. Nussbaum • Peter Naylor • Hannah H. Namrow • Susan Olbrisch • Julia Peyton • Lewis and Jane Penn • John Plaut • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Fairfield C. Rand, Jr. • Rollin Rust • Mark Rinella • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Stuart Roosa • Ann and Arthur Saper • Dick and Debbie Scanlon • Richard Shields • W. Hampton Sides • Lou Silverman • Elizabeth and William Sledge • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tate • Alan and Betsy Todaro • Melinda Turner • Allen and Sarah Wardell • David Yergin and Andrea Stern Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Trailblazers - Michael Gerber
The Post-Doc Paper Chase - Eli Kintisch
That Summer - Compiled by Anya Liftig
Are You Being Served? - Lainie Rutkow
The Quiet Lesson - Jessica Winter
Between the Vines: Lost in America - Ian Blecher
The Critical Angle: Deconstrucring Jerry - Andrew Youn
Endnote: Serious Fun - Daniel Brook


**Title: Trailblazers**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 6**

Two Yale alums pose a cross country challenge building dozens of homes and a friendship in the process.


**Title: The Post-Doc Paper Chase**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 10**

Would-be professors confront the harsh realities of the academic playing field.


**Title: That Summer**
**Author: Compiled by Anya Liftig**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: Are You Being Served?**
**Author: Lainie Rutkow**
**Page number(s): 16**

The administration's efforts to revitalize its properties leave students and locals wondering whose interests Yale has in mind.


**Title: The Quiet Lesson**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 22**

Yale medical students and residents learn that not only patients face difficult choices about abortion.


**Title: Between the Vines: Lost in America**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Deconstrucring Jerry**
**Author: Andrew Youn**


**Title: Endnote: Serious Fun**
**Author: Daniel Brook**

THE NEW JOURNAL is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc., P.O. Box 2032 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. Office address: 252 Park Street. Phone: (203) 432-1957. All contents copyright 1998 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written permission of the publisher and editor in chief is prohibited. 
While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for our content. Ten thousand copies of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. Subscriptions are available to those outside the area. Rates: One year, $18. Two years, $30. THE NEW JOURNAL is printed by Twley Publications, Palmer, MA; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. THE NEW JOURNAL encourages letters to the editor and comments on Yale and New Haven issues. Write to Editorials, P.O. Box 2032 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for publication must include address and signature. We reserve the right to edit all letters for publication.



**Title: New Haven in Focus**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
New Haven in Focus 
I lived in New Haven, Connecticut, for a 
year before I could name more than seven of 
its streets. I lived by the New Haven Green, 
just two blocks from City Hall, for a year and 
never knew the mayor's name. I spent a year 
at Yale University thinking about test scores, 
boys, and parties; by the time my second year 
at Yale began, I was still lost in the city where I 
lived. 

Sophomores returning to Yale are expect-
ed to know their way around New Haven, but. 
for those like me who entered their seco~d 
year still befuddled by New Haven's politics 
and physical layout, FOCUS on New Haven 
stands alone co assist them. The name of Yale's 
only orientation for sophomores, Freshman 
Orientation to CommUnity Service, is as 
obsolete as the concept that only freshmen 
need orientations. When the program began 
six years ago as a week-long introduction for 
freshmen to New Haven and its community 
service opportunities, FOCUS failed. Con-
sisting of intensive manual labor service pro-
jects and highly-charged panel discussions, 
the program proved too much for freshmen 
still struggling co find their way around cam-
pus. "FOCUS for freshmen would be just 
another detail when everything is new," says 
FOCUS 
1998 
co-coordinator 
Margaret 
Sawyer (BK '99). 

While still operating in a diluted but 
effective form as Cityscape (a day-long orien-
tation for freshmen which consists of van 
tours, shon projects, and a community din-
ner), the original FOCUS no longer exists. 
After recovering from its initial failure, the 
regrouped program emerged with a stronger, 
more innovative angle. It decided to target 
Yale students who already knew enough about 
New Haven co develop an interest in finding 
out more. "If you're going to spend your time 
learning about a city, it's ridiculous to do so 
before you've spent some time in it," says 
Heidi Vogt (DC '99), rwo-cime leader and 
former participant. "People need to see that 
hole in their lives before they are ready to 
explore New Haven." 

FOCUS begins with panicipants learning 
about New Haven and its history through ., 
walking tours on the Green and van rides 
throughout the city. Later in the week, the 
entire group participates in a homelessness 
simulation and listens to panels of citizens 
and officials alike on the issues of Yale-New 
Haven relations, education, and city develop-
ment. For the last four days of the program, 
participants split into seven separate projects 
throughout the city. The projects range from 
building a porch for Habitat for Humanity to 
painting a mural at the caesar Jerez Catholic 
Workers Home. 

Far from the typical community service 
organizations run through Dwight Hall, Yale's 
service umbrella, FOCUS's main concern is 
its participants rather than urgent community 
needs. Restricted by time and the amount of 
work it can realistically accomplish in four 
days, the program seeks to encourage further 
interest in New Haven and community ser-
vice while maintaining the idea of working 
with, rather than for, 
the compiunity. 

"FOCUS isn't about privileged Yale students 
coming in and changing New Haven," says 
Vogt. "It's about preparing people to help 
New Haven solve its own problems." 

The motivation of FOCUS draws on the 
idea that Yale students can contribute to the 
community only when they see themselves as 
New Haven residents. Whereas participants 
in most service organizations spend an hour 
or two a week going into the community and 
coming back to Yale, panicipants in FOCUS 
spend the majority of their day outside of 
campus, riding city buses and even taking 
their meals at the Trinity Lutheran Church on 
Orange Street. "You're eating, breathing, and 
sleeping FOCUS. You don't have this other 
life that you go back to," says leader and for-
mer panicpant Hilary Kaplan (BR '00). 

For most panicipants, especially those 
who have never done community service, the 
FOCUS experience 
proves 
eye-opening. 

"FOCUS changed my attitude towards New 
Haven," says Eugenia Chen (DC '01). "I had 
never felt compelled to do community service 
before, but once you see a housing project in 
the middle of nowhere or pull hypodermic 
needles and bags of marijuana out of a river, 
you can't really turn away." 

Despite its success and the enthusiasm of 
its participants, FOCUS still operates on a 
small scale. This year only 65 sophomores 
applied for the program. Out of those panici-
pants, the majority were already active in 
Dwight Hall service or in New Haven report-
ing for the Yale Daily News. "For the average 
college student there's no real need to go out 
into New Haven," says Chen. "People go to 
college and want a fun college town. The 
immediate concerns of an average college stu-
dent are having a movie theater, some good 
restaurants, and something to do at night." 

Perhaps she is right, but "average college stu-
dents" are not supposed to attend Yale. 
-Jada Yuan


**Title: Project X**
**Author: Navin Manglani**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Project X 
As Old Blue collides with the 21st centu-
ry, its technological capability will be put to 
the rest. The next millenium may bring upon 
us such calamities as disappearance of grades, 
the obliteration of library records, and the 
sealing of encryways, all because Yale's leg-
endary endowment may vanish into digitized 
ether. 

Aie we destined to self-destruct? In our 
self-satisfied complacency, have we entered at 
lightning speed a narrow tunnel whose only 
egress is our own annihilation? What son of 
wizardry will allow us to avert the oncoming 
disaster? Which brave souls will spare us from 
this terrifying fate? None other than the tech-
nological scions ofYale's Project X. 

As the class of.l999 prepares to graduate, 
the university grapples with the preparations 
it must make to accommodate the needs of 
future classes. Like many other institutions, 
Yale needs to upgrade its administrative sys-
terns co make them Year 2000 (or Y2K, as 
your friendly CA. would put it) compliant. 
Current administrative programs are quire 
complex, time-consuming, and costly, and 
frequently fail ro provide adequate informa-
tion. Furthermore, Yale's systems lack proper 
tools to formulate straregies and effectively 
manage the university. 

The brains of Project X are working 
coward a viable solution for the current prob-
lems in Yale's administrative systems. In lieu 
of simply "patching up" or upgrading current 
software, the Project X dynamos have decided 
ro replace rhe entire kit and caboodle with 
newly developed software. This will aUow 
Yale not only to solve the Year 2000 bug, but 
will also enhance Yale's management of finan-
cial and human resources. 

The Project X team has enlisted rhe 
expertise of Oracle Corporation to modernize 
Yale's administrative systems in four ways. 
First, the new systems wiU allow improved 
management and planning capacity at aU lev-
els through accurate and timely information, 
user-friendly 
analysis, 
and lightning-fast 
reporting tools. A new data warehouse and 
faster running, easy-ro-use software applica-
tions will make this possible. Second, Project 
X will provide better administrative services to 
faculty, srudents, staff, alumni and donors 
through simpler communication services. 

Third, Oracle's new systems wiJJ slash admin-
istrative costs by minimizing data entered and 
reducing error correction. Finally, they wiJI 
reduce rhe risk of data loss and financial mis-
calculation through sophisticated backup sys-
tems and tighter control over expenditures 
and revenues. 

The pursuit of these new administrative 
systems commenced in the summer of 1996. 
Provost Alison Richard and Joseph Mullinix, 
Vice President for Finance and Administra-
tion, ignited a Steering Committee for the 
project and coordinated the efforts of four 
other teams to mobilize Project X. More than 
60 staff members from the central administra-
tion and different departments within Yale 
have worked together to develop an overall 
strategy and understand the costs and benefits 
of such an undertaking. 

By signing with the Oracle Corporation, 
Yale has the potencial to benefit from partner-
ships with other universities already commit-
ted to rhe Oracle software. The University of 
Pennsylvania, which currently utilizes an Ora-
cle financial system, has proven helpful in 
sharing its experiences and insights on the sys-
tem. Stanford and Harvard, both planning to 
launch Oracle-based projects, have shown 
interest not only in sharing informacion but 
also in coordinating training with Yale. 

Project X, slated for completion by Janu-
ary 1, 1999, will be carried our in two phases. 
Phase I, already complete, provides the Uni-
versity with a novel set of financial analysis 
tools. These tools give Yale easy on-line access 
to financial data. Phase I also included instal-
lation of a new time and attendance system, a 
novel travel and entertainment expense reim-
bursement procedure, and recenr techniques 
for job postings and applicant processing. 

Phase II will continue improvements by mod-
ernizing accounts management processes such 
as payroll, benefits, and claims procedures. 
The Project X team expects that ongoing 
developments will continue beyond the grad-
uarion of the class of 1999, as the university 
begins to exploit the fearures of these new sys-
tems. 

By equipping Old Blue with Oracle's new 
systems, the Project X task force will assure 
that Yale's Generation Y will be armed for 
Y2K and beyond. 
-Navin Manglani


**Title: Trailblazers**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 6**

· From his office, Jim Garman (ES '98) can see the San Francisco 
skyline-"if you stand in the right spot and twist your body the right 
way," he says. "We're thinking of painting footprints so people know 
where to stand." Garman, however, is not one to stand where he's told. 
As a senior at Yale, he saw his peers take graduate exams, fill out appli-
cations, and send out resumes, taking their places on the footprints oth-
ers had already painted. But Garman found none of those fit him, so he 
set off to paint his own. 

Garman and fellow Yale alum Antony Brydon (TD '95) are the 
founders, directors, and entire staff of the Habitat Bike and Build, 
which they hope will become a multi-million dollar fundraiser for 
Habitat for Humanity. Their office suite is simple: two desks, maps on 
the walls, empty space. It differs greatly from what 26-year-old Brydon 
became f.uniliar with in three years of strategy consulting with R. B. 
Webber and Company. But the Bike and Build is the realization of a 
vision Brydon had more than five years ago. 

In September of 1992, Brydon embarked upon a journey that has 
yet to end. Returning to Yale for his junior year, Brydon found school 
uninspiring. "I did the first ten days at Yale thing," Brydon says, 
"where you shop all the classes you're imerested in. Couldn't find any." 
So Brydon sought help from the dean of T lDlothy Dwight, John 
Loge. Hurricane Andrew had recently swept through southern Flori-
da, and Brydon told Dean Loge of his interest in helping to rebuild 
Miami. "He recognized that I was a lot more passionate about that 
than I would be about my classes." So, at the encouragement of his 
dean, Brydon-an avid cyclist-lefr New Haven on bicycle. More 
than three weeks later, he arrived in Atlanta. It was there that he called 
Habitat for Humanity and told them he was on his way to Miami. 

Habitat told him that they didn't have a spot for him in Miami; howev-
er, Americus, Georgia, did have some openings in construction~ "I rode 
down from Atlanta, showed up on my bike, and ended up working in 
construction there for three and a half months." Brydon's stipend was 
only 40 dollars a week, plus an extra 25 each month for emertainment. 
But he did gain experience working with other Habitat volunteers 
whose sole focus was building houses. 

Before arriving in Americus, Brydon's Habitat experience consisted 
of a few volunteer stints at home. "I think it can be described as 
luck. .. or divine intervention that it ended up being a program with . 
which I found so much in common." In Americus, Habitat is not just 
another non-profit organization. Americus is the headquarters of Habi-
tat for Humanity International (HFHI), which oversees the 1500 affili-
ates worldwide. For a semester, Brydon toured on his bicycle in the 
morning and worked on a site in the afternoon. The connection 
between Habitat and cycling had begun. But it was not until the fall of 
1993, when Brydon returned to Yale, that he figured out how to use 
that connection. 

Brydon and a core group of students found it hard to become 
involved with Habitat for Humanity of Greater New Haven. The chap-
ter was building only one house, and they had more volunteers than 
they were able to use. "If we were going to build a house," Brydon 
remembers, "we were going to need to fund it ourselves." That was 
when Brydon discovered the potential of the Habitat-cycling connec-
tion and conceived of the cross-country ride . 

"We were going to raise half a million dollars," says Brydon. His 
postering and word-of-mouth campaign drew 90 interested Yalies and 
40 applications at the first meeting. Unfortunately, limited sponsorship 
meant limited participation. By selecting the applicants most devoted 



**Title: Habitat for Humanity's Bike and Build**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to Habitat, Brydon created a group of eight dedicated riders. They were 
the first Habitat Bicycle Challenge (HBC). That first cross-country ride 
was far from a vacation. The riders spent 12 weeks on the road, logging 
5,000 miles and carrying all their gear. When Brydon returned in the 
fall as a senior, he began planning immediately for the future of HBC. 
The first ride had been thrown together in just a few months, and did 
not live up to Brydon's expectations. 

Over the next five years, HBC grew under the leadership of Bry-
don, Garman, and others. Starting with the second ride in 1995, about 
30 cyclists rode from Washington, D.C., to San Francisco, now with a 
support van ro hold their bags. This past summer, the ride's fifth year, it 
expanded to include a northern route from New Haven to Vancouver. 
The ability to find 60 riders and raise $100,000, twice as much as the 
previous year, signaled that the Bicycle Challenge was ready for the next 
level. "Would somebody just do it?" Brydon thought. "Incorporate it, 
tun it, take it to the level it finally belongs at?" But who could do that 
besides the man who first experienced and 
created HBC? "I felt compelled to realize 
the original vision." 

In the summer of 2000, hundreds of 
Habitat volunteers will set off on their 
bicycles, riding from San Francisco to 
Washington, D.C. Yet it is obvious that 
Brydon is not yet satisfied. "It's going to 
be the most substantial step forward for 
the Habitat Bicycle Challenge," he says, 
making clear that he sees this only as 
another growth spurt for the ride, not the 
final step. The two founders hope that the 
ride will expand to include a thousand riders and raise more than ten 
million dollars. 

A ride of this scale is something that has been done before. The 
GTE Big Ride debuted this summer, with almost 750 riders raising 
millions for the American Lung Association. But as Garman explains, 
the Bike and Build is unique. "It's not just a cycling event-it's a year-
long program." Each rider will not only raise money for his local chap-
ter, but will also work with the future homeowners to construct the 
house that he is funding. During the ride, cyclists and community 
members will gather to celebrate Habitat. HBC has been promoting 
Habitat in the communities it passes through since it began, and the 
Bike and Build founders hope to keep this interaction as ride participa-
tion increases. 

Committing to the Bike and Build right out of college was not easy. 
"My girlfriend thought I was crazy," Garman says of his decision. His 
friends and family had seen him spend weeks finding jobs in construc-
tion management, a field he had grown to love during his time with 
Habitat. Only six months ago, he spent his last Spring Break on a job-
searching trip to North Carolina. The trip was a success, and he 
returned to his last months at Yale enthusiastic about his future. But a 
week later, the construction jobs were forgotten and work on the Bike 
and Build had begun. 

The change seemed sudden, but the Habitat Bike and Build was 
the next logical step for someone who had already dedicated three years 
to Habitat. As a freshman, Garman spent a spring day working on a 
Habitat site. After hours of removing and replacing charred rafrers, he 
knew he wanted to spend more time on Habitat sites. "I came back 
totally dirty and smelly and just really loved it." 

As one of the few students who organized the Collegiate Build, 
Garman helped change the relationship between the Yale and New 
Haven chapters of Habitat. The Collegiate Build was the first house in 
the nation for which the fundraising and volunteer labor was provided 
solely by students. In spite of-or perhaps because of-the many 
doubts as to whether students could pull it off, the Collegiate Build 
House became a home in 1996 when the dedication was held and the 
Green family moved in. 

In the fall of 1995, just as the Colle-
giate Build was being organized, Gar-
man was asked by Brian Vogt (PC 
'96)-who became HBC director after 
Brydon graduated-to be a leader on 
HBC '96. It was his friendship with the 
soon-to-graduate Vogt that led Garman 
to accept the offer. Garman not only led 
the ride across the country, but also co-
directed HBC the following years. 

Garman's most significant mark on 
Habitat for Humanity, though, is the 
increased awareness of Habitat among 
Yale students. As a freshman counselor, Garman inspired many fresh-
men to become involved with Habitat. The night before the northern 
HBC group left New Haven in May, one of the riders asked "How 
many of us are here because of Jim Garman?" More than half of the 30 
riders raised their hands. 

In April, as graduation neared, Garman sat frustrated at his desk in 
Lawrance Hall. The enormous scope of the project was beginning to 
reveal itself "How do you find the company that makes semitrailers 
with showers inside?" When not working on his history thesis, Garman 
searched for answers to questions like that one--questions that HFHI 
might have for two twenty-somethings proposing a thousand-person, 
cross-country bicycle ride. 

They met with senior management at the HFHI headquarters in 
the spring. "There was hesitation," says Brydon. "The Bike and Build 
would be one of Habitat's most visible programs." In fact, the Bike and 
Build was poised to become the best publicity for Habitat since Jimmy 
and Rosalyn Carter first signed on almost 20 years ago, but its high pro-
file also made it a huge risk for a volunteer-based organization like 
HFHI. The risks were at least as great for the two young men who pro-


--- Page 8 ---

posed the idea . 

When Garman and Brydon arrived in 
Americus, each had spent many hours writing 
the Bike and Build business plan. But they 
hardly knew each other. There was the time at 
the celebration in San Francisco after Gar-
man's HBC ride; Brydon was still a Habitat 
cycling legend to Garman. "He doesn't 
remember the first time we met," says Gar-
man. "But you can imagine for me it was 
exciting to meet him." They spoke briefly in 
New Haven the next year, when Brydon was 
interviewing for the Habitat Executive Direc-
tor posicion. Since then their only contact had 
been over the phone. "I've written business 
plans with friends before," says Brydon. "This 
is the opposite. This relationship is driven by 
the idea." 

The two have found their differing sryles 
to be complementary: Brydon spent three 
years in the business world, · helping small 
Internet-based_ businesses establish them-
selves. Garman is different: a jacket and tie 
never look quite right on him. And Brydon 
himself will tell you that Garman is the calm 
one. "Jim is level-headed," he says, "while I'm 
excitable, temperamental." Their differences 
led to a narural division of labor. 'While Jim 
travels the highways of California, recruiting 
Habitat chapters to become involved, Brydon 
discovers the intricacies of incorporating a 
non-profit enterprise. "We're lucky we like 
each other," says Garman. 

But even with all of their differences, it 
comes as no surprise that they became friends 
as well as partners. Both are dedicated to the 
program, and- maybe more significantly-
both gave up a degree of securiry when they 
jumped into the Bike and Build. Each put a 
lot of work into the project before HFHI even 
gave their approval. 

In July, when HFHI first called Brydon 
and Garman and told them the good news, 
their reactions were quite different. Garman 
packed up his Plymouth Voyager and left his 
Kentucky home within a few days. HFHI's 
go-ahead was more than just the culmination 
of years of work for Garman, says Brydon. 
"Jim needed a job." And as the Bike and Build 
became realiry, it looked like he had one. "I 
told Antony I was driving right out to San 
Francisco," Garman says. "He was silent." 

Brydon was well-paid, loved what he was 
doing, and could make his own schedule. Last 
year, he took three months off to bicycle 
through India, Nepal,. and Ttbet-at the 
encouragement of his' employers. Running 
the bike challenge had never been easy. "HBC 
'94-'95 nearly crippled me," he says. He even 
considered both jobs, but realized that was 
impossible. "I thought, do I wane to do two 
jobs poorly or one job well?" After a few days, 
though, Brydon realized that he needed the 
Bike and Build, and it needed him. "Silicon 
Valley can survive without me." 

So the decision was made. Brydon 
informed his employer that he would be leav-
ing. "My business friends laughed at the idea 
of working for a non-profit." Only three years 
out of school, Brydon had left a great job 
most students would kill for. Garman was on 
his way to California to join him. 

"I was on top of the world," says Garman 
of his drive to the Bay Area. Even the death of 
Woody, his beloved van, only slowed him 
down by a day. Determined to keep going, 
Garman quickly found himself a used car. 
Like the gold seekers almost 150 years before 
him, he arrived with only what he could fit in 
his wagon (in this case, a Honda). By mid-
August, things were 'looking good for Gar-
man. "I use my key chain," he explains. "First 
it was empty. Then I got the car key. Now I 
have the office key and the one for the house" 
(where he's living with friends). It was finally 
happening. 

Originally eager for a 1999 premiere of 
the ride, the two soon realized that rushing 
the process was what had caused the first 
Bicycle Challenge to be such a difficult experi-
ence. Brydon and Garman made the tough 
decision to postpone the Bike and Build until 
the next year. "We have to step back, regroup, 
and give ourselves 18 months to make it 
work," says Garman. They are discovering 
that there is more to running a multi-milion 
dollar national business than hanging posters 
on bulletin boards and table tenting in the 
dining halls. What Brydon and Garman have 
always known, though, is that the ride will 
happen if they decide they want it to. "That's 
the single biggest lesson in all of this," Brydon 
says. "You have to go after it-it's not going to 
come to you." 

**Title: The Post-Doc Paper Chase**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The phone rang on the third floor of Kline Biology Tower 
(KBT) and a post-doctoral researcher picked up. "Tama Has-
son?" a mysterious voice said. "We've done a positional done 
on the deafness gene-and it's a gene for myosin." 
Myosin was the protein Hasson had been studying for years. It 
turned out that mutations in the genetic code for the protein caused a 
major human disorder, a form of deafness. In an instant, Hasson was 
transformed from another underpaid biology Ph.D-a post-doc-to a 
scientific superstar. 

Such phone calls are the stuff of post-doc dreams. Scientists like 
Hasson take on an assortment of names: post-doctoral fellows, associate 
research faculty. What matters is that they have the Ph.Ds that make 
them bonafide scientists, and that they're not professors. 

Post-docs endure 60-hour work weeks, publish only a few times 
during their career, and make less money than most librarians. In their 
early twenties, up to their elbows in graduate school, they sleep on sofas 
in laboratory lounges. ln their late twenties, they tend to marry each 
other. They refer to themselves as "non-entities" and "indentured ser-
vants." Working in the lab of a university professor, they live off grants 
that usually pay less than $30,000 per year. Until they prove themselves 
in the labs, they hover in academic limbo, shunning higher-paying jobs 
in industry and a host of other options for a chance at a professorship. 

Hasson's big moment reveals the tension between science for the 
sake of individual discovery and science for the sake of winning the aca-
demic game. We were taught in our grade-school textbooks that science 
is the enterprise of discovery, of asking why. Bur in contemporary acad-
emia, a permanent "position" is the prize at hand. Professors, unlike 
those beneath them on the ladder, enjoy virtually unfettered scientific 
freedom. As principle investigator, the professor acts as coach, top 
strategist, publicity manager, and boss for a large team of graduate stu-
dents, technicians, and post-docs. Before post-docs earn their own lab, 
they must work for someone else's agenda. 

Driven to attain a better position ensuring greater academic free-
dom, post-docs are more than curious people. They are public explorers, 
driven by a will to rise to the top of their fields, gaining the respect of 
both their peers and the pundits who keep score in the scientific world. 

Trying to escape this academic limbo can be a frustrating strug-
gle. William Leiserson, a 40-year-old post-doc, is a researcher in 
genetics, a field in which papers are especially difficult to pub-
lish; a future position in academics will be difficult to attain. "Forty is 
old enough to have a real job," he says. "Personally, I'm slower than 
many others. That's the way I work." Add a wife and two kids, and the 
pressure to perform only intensifies. Between supporting a family and 
trying to publish-the only means of improving a salary designed for a 
26-year-old workaholic-he's got less time to work than his competi-
tors. 

It's an uphill battle, but one that Leiserson takes on willingly. Post-
docs may get frustrated, but they know that they could leave academia 
at any time and find decently paying jobs waiting for them in industry. 
There is no comparable outlet for Ph.Ds in non-technical fields. The 
only reason to remain in a low-paying post-doc position is the chance 
to rise through the academic ranks. 

Lisa Evans, in the second year of her post-doctoral appointment in 
Mark Mooseker's lab at Yale, followed the same path for a long time. "I 
always thought that I wanted to be, essentially, Mark someday," says 
Evans. But looking a few years into her thirties, she's finding that there 
may not be room in her life for her career, personal satisfaction, and a 
third factor-<>ne that scientists often leave out of their professional 
equations-a family. Recently engaged to a policeman in the New 
Haven area, she knows _she'll have little geographic Aexibiliry in the next 
few years, making a job search that much more difficult. And as 
opposed to industrial jobs which often offer child-care programs and 
materniry leave, academic positions make it difficult for women to 
begin families. 

Evans now questions the commitment that is necessary to climb the 
ladder. Like many post-docs, she's considering the alternatives to a uni-
versiry job. The expanding pharmaceutical industry and its biotech off-
shoots are desperate for outstanding researchers and offer high paying 
salaries to compensate them. Commercial laboratories boast jobs less 
time-intensive than academic posts, with salaries nearly tripling Evans's 
relatively small grants. 

Looking beyond universiry research has drawn Evans to Connecti-
cut's small liberal-arts colleges. By working in a school dedicated to 
undergraduate teaching, she feels she could raise a family. Granted, 
teaching four days a week and running a lab at a small school won't 
land Evans on the cover of Cell, but for her the priorities have changed. 

Her boss thinks she could compete for some of the top research 
spots in the country. An appointment in Mooseker's lab is already an 
accolade; of the 20 Ph.Ds who have worked in his lab, all but one have 
gone on to careers in academia. "If she wanted to," Professor Mooseker 
says with assurance, "Lisa could go all the way." 

Academic science didn't always require prolonged post-doctoral 
positions. "~en to 15 years ago, post-doctoral appointments 
were one or two years," says Larry Holmes, professor of History 
of Science at Yale. These days, universities have a glut of tenured scien-
tists, with at least 20 years left before retirement. 

One look at the back pages of Science or Nature reveals the realities 
that await postdocs. Behind the articles that bring fame and funding are 
pages of advenised post-doc and biotech openings-and a handful of 
staff positions in academia. 

A marked deanh of basic research positions in the "hard" sciences 
means most Ph.Ds in physics and math go into industry. "Of people in 
physics taking a post-doctoral appointment, one in 20 stay in acade-
mia," says Ken Swartz, a post-doc at Yale. "You see a lot of physics peo-
ple turn to computer science, nuclear medicine." Swartz will try for an 
academic position, but he's content to begin a career outside the acade-
my. He estimates in industry he'll make about $80,000 to start. 

"Sometimes you think, 'As long as I'd be a professor that would be 
everything,"' he says, "but you realize that's not the case." 

For scientists like Hasson, however, there's nothing else. Even 
before 1995, 12-hour days in the lab were normal. But that fate-
ful afternoon changed the face of the game. "That call changed 
my life," Hasson remembers. From there, her 70-hour weeks in lab 
meant even more. She was winning the game. A year later, a second 
phone call announced that another of her myosin varieties had been 
implicated in deafness. This time she flew down to Maryland, and 
worked for three days straight to prepare a paper for Nature Genetics. 
Thanks to her research's applicability for deafness, more money and 
collaborations came in, and paper upon paper went out. Subsequently, 
she worked 10 to 12-hour days seven days a week. The time commit-
ment has paid off. This year, she landed an assistant professor posicion 
at Universiry of California at San Diego. 

To rise in the system, soon-to-be-Professor Hasson has learned, one 
needs luck as well as perseverance. Even with powerful scientific knowl-
edge and a relentless work ethic, it's unclear whether she'd have made it 
without those fateful phone calls from distant geneticists. Now she's set 
to start her own lab in at one of the world's biology meccas. 

More than a dozen papers, prestige, and expen status testifY to her 
position. But does she ever escape the struggle? Can a scientist learn for 
the sake of learning, and discover for the joy of discovery alone-with 
no regard to the ramifications, professional or otherwise? 

As Hasson describes the genes that have kept her on the trail for so 
long, a glimmer of fascination appears in her eyes behind her glasses. 
There is a perceptible rise in her voice as she explains answers that have 
taken five years of her life to discover. But it's ten o'clock on a Wednes-
day night, and she hasn't seen her husband in three days. In her labora-
tory, thousands of multicolored test-tubes and bottles watch us from 
the shelves. KBT is still. A machine in the corner emits a low whir. "It's 
quiet here at night," she says wistfully. "It's amazing how much you can 
accomplish." 

Eli Kintisch, a senior in Ezra Stiles College, is associate editor ofTNJ. 




No text was provided to transcribe.  The pages referenced (13, 14, 15) contain no content.


**Are You Being Served?**
**Author: Lainie Rutkow**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Are 
You 
Being 
Served? 
THE ADMIN I STRATI ON ' S EFFORTS 
TO REVITALIZE ITS PROPERTIES 
LEAVE STU DENTS AND LOCALS 
WONDERING WHOSE INTERESTS 
YALE HAS IN MIND. 
Lainie Rutkow 
THE NEW JouRNAL


"You go to Yale, don't you? What are you doing here-Yale's the 
reason this place is being shut down. You can't come in here," threatens 
a menacing teenager as he blocks the door to the Daily Caffe. Someone 
flicks a cigarette butt at me and I brush through the doorway to a stac-
cato of taunting questions-"Are you on their side? Why are you stu-
dents letting this happen? Doesn't anybody care?'' 
It is the last Saturday night in August and instead of 
preparing for the busy fall season, the staff and patrons 
of the Daily Caffe are dismantling the store. Steve 
Shapiro, who owns the Daily with his wife Madeline, 
rescues me from the anti-Yale attacks and provides a seat 
amidst speakers, coffee machines, and artwork destined 
for the U-Haul outside. "Last night we were served with 
a notice that states that the sheriff is coming tomorrow 
morning at 7:30 to evict us," he says. "Yale did it this 
way so that we couldn't go to court. They're adamant 
that we leave." As he speaks a line forms next to us with 
patrons who express outrage and offer support. 
Shapiro distractedly thanks them for their concern 
and tries to direct the removal of the menu boards that 
line the wall behind the Daily's front counter. "Don't 
worry about the plastic-we can replace that-just don't ruin the 
boards," he says. "I would love to put those back up on Monday." With 
these words the buzz of conversation dies down, and Shapiro explains 
that there is a slight chance his attorney will find a way to postpone the ~ 
eviction. But even if this does happen, eviction is inevitable, as the g 
papers have already been served. 

The Daily has been in 6nancial trouble ever since Shapiro couldn't ;. 
pay Yale his rent last summer. "We suffered a lack of business because ~ 
of the competition that Yale put in-Willoughby's, 
Au Bon Pain, Bruegger's, Starbucks," he says. As the ~ 
only remaining independent coffee house in the 
Broadway area, the Daily was forced to compete with 
corporate coffee giants whose rent payments are ._ 
always guaranteed. The universiry assured Shapiro 3 
that he would not be forced out by chain stores, and 
would actually experience an increase in business. 
Not surprisingly, that never happened and Shapiro 
worked on plans to save his store. "Yale could have 
helped us. I was denied Flex dollars. They wouldn't 
give us a break on the rent. They could have helped us 
to expand and add a kitchen. With any of that I 
wouldn't be in this mess right now." 

We suffered a 
lack of business 
because of the 
competition that 
Yale put in-
Willoughby's, Au Bon 
Pain, Bruegger's, 
Starbucks. 
-Steve Shapiro, 
Owner of Daily Caffe 

The scene at the Daily is only the latest in a series 
of muddled Broadway real estate decisions that span the last several 
years. This eviction is more surprising and dramatic than most, in part 
due to the populariry of the Daily as a hang-out for both Yale students 
and locals. "We made this a town/gown 
place," says Shapiro. "Everyone was welcome 
here." He's not idly praising himself-on any 
given night one could go to the Daily and 
find a mix of Yalies and New Haven natives. 
The art on display was just as likely to have 
been created by a Yale student as a local resi-
dent; the same goes for the bands that played 
there a few nights a week. So what would 
motivate Yale, who owns the Daily's building, 
ro evict this tenant? 

"Yale is accumulating square footage in 
the Broadway area to attract the kind of ten-
ants that students have said they want," says 
Joe Fahey, Director of Operations for Univer-
sity Properties. If that's correct then the string 
of real estate maneuvers made by the universi-
ty in the recent past seems incoherent at best. 
With Broadway store fronts remaining empty 
for years at a cime, one wonders exactly what 
mother Yale thinks her hen-pecked students 
want. "Those store fronts on Broadway 
haven't been vacant because of a lack of inter-
est," says Fahey. "It takes time to attract the 
type of tenant we would like to bring in." His 
words may very well be true, but with store 
fronts like that of Benson's Bakery remaining 
vacant for two and a half years, the district has 
developed the feel of a musical chairs game. 

In the last three years alone, just under the 
span of an undergraduate Yale career, Broad-
way has seen the exit of Benson's Bakery, the 
closing of Almost Wholesale, the departure of 
Dakota J's, the introduction of the Yale Book-
store, and the arrival of Bruegger's Bagels. 
One never knows what to expect afrer a sum-
mer away from campus. This year's surpr 
was Origins, a bath and body shop. As part 
a national chain, Origins confirms the tre.au 
that the additions made to Broadway will be 
corporate rather than independent. Consider-
ing how long the Origins' storefront remained 
vacant, it is difficult to believe that the univer-
sity thought a merchant hawking $8.50 bars 
of soap would best cater to student interest. 
The student reaction to Origins has been one 
of shock and confusion-we all know that 
they will make rent every month, but are they 
adding anything to the district? The Yale 
Bookstore already has a bath section that 
offers pricey soaps and other items that are of 
low appeal to college students. 

Even more puzzling have been the lease 
negotiations of Broadway's Store24, which is · 
both corporate-owned and a Yalie staple. Last 
spring, campus chatter shifted from upcom-
ing finals to the impending removal of 
Store24 afrer Rumpus broke the story. Four 
months 
later, 
Store24 
remains 
nestled 
between The Boola Boola Shop and the 
empty Almost Wholesale storefront, and 
negotiations continue. Its lease is up and 
everyone from Store24 president Robert Gor-
don to store manager Mary Crump knows 
that something is going to change in the next 
several months. "We don't know the status of 
the Broadway Store24," says Gordon. "Right 
now we're trying to arrange for a different 
space with the university. Yale has plans to 
redevelop the area where we are, including the 
building we're in." The only people who 
know the f.ue of Store24 work for University


**Title: Yale's Real Estate Fiasco**
**Author: Lainie Rutkow**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Properties, and they aren't talking beyond 
what's already known. ~ 
There has only been one moment in the 
Broadway real estate fiasco when the universi-
ty did seem to know its students and their 
alliances well, and that occurred in the timing 
of the eviction of the Daily. Started by a Yale 
graduate in 1989, it is not 
surprising that current Yalies 
still appreciate the "great cof-
fees, fine pastries, and decent 
people" at the Daily. By serv-
ing the eviction papers just as 
students returned to campus 
and before classes had begun, 
Yale attempted to get the 
Daily out quietly. The chaos 
of Camp Yale and the excite-
ment of seeing friends after a 
summer apart are probably 
enough to mask the activity 
on the corner of Park and 
Elm, where Daily patrons 
have been thronging since 
they heard the news. 

I called people at 
University Properties 
and said, "Look, I 
can guarantee your 
rent, I've been here 
eleven years. I have 
Predictably, Yale is salivat-
ing at the thought of buying 
the FDIC properties, which 
occupy most of the block on 
Chapel between College and 
High Streets. They've been 
negotiating the deal with the 
FDIC for over a year. Baker 
knew this, and she appealed 
to Yale as the building's future 
owner. "I called the people at 
University 
Properties 
and 
said, 'Look, I can guarantee 
your rent, I've been here 11 years, I have an 
established business, people love it, and now 
I'm getting thrown out on the street--can't 
you intervene?'" says Baker. She was greeted 
with empathy but not action. She's resigned 
herself to vacate her store by the end of Sep-
tember. 

"You have to understand-I'm sympa-
thetic to Frances Baker, but Joel Schiavone 
didn't do anything wrong." says Fahey of the 
Sugar Magnolia situation. "If an owner 
doesn't like a tenant and their lease is up, they 
can tell a tenant to leave." Fahey's words are 
caltn and rational, employing exactly the same 
logic used to remove the Daily from Broad-
way. The difference is that now we're talking 
about Chapel Sueet, which has a tiny corpo-
rate presence and is dominated by small busi-
nesses. One would think that a small success-
ful store like Sugar Magnolia would be 
encouraged to stay. 

Fahey's reaction to Baker's predicament is 
disturbing if one considers that in several 
months Yale will be the owner on Chap~t 
Street with the right to turn tenants out. n 
only people Yale has turned out of late are d 
small businesses on Broadway, which m~ 
provide a glimpse of the future for Chap( 
Fahey is quick to discourage this thought, sa: 
ing, "It's already the kind of district that Ya 
would like to have. The university's interest 
to maintain the district as is-to keep the fe 
of the district and improve the base building 
Tenants will leave and tenants will come, bt 
the goal is to keep that feel of the district." 

Perhaps the university's public intentio1 
are good, but Yale's track record for maintain-
ing the "feel" of a district is not impressive. u 
the "feel" of Broadway is supposed to be sn 
dent-oriented, Yale has adopted the reducti' 
view that corporate equals collegiate. Not a 
Yalies want designer coffee and clothes, an 
many of them would rather give their mom 
to smaller businesses that contribute- to d 
atmosphere of a college town. 

This is not to say that Chapel Street ca 
see its future on Broadway. However, rumo 
are already flying among the Chapel Stre. 
store owners that Yale has well-established 
intentions that may not include them. It is 
unlikely that Yale would want to inundate 
Chapel with cookie-cutter corporate stores 
that have the plastic atmosphere of a mall. But 
with the Gap and Ann Taylor considered to 
be some of the "nicest" stores on Chapel, and 
Yale's intentions to make the downtown dis-
trict a place attractive to business people as 
well as parents of Yale students, the Chapel 
merchants should t~ note. The university is 
often off the mark when attempting to cater 
to its clientde. 

Shapiro was hoping that his evtctton 
would serve as a rallying point for students to 
protest Yale's restructuring of Broadway. "I 
wanted to let students protest and force Yale 
to stop hiding behind corporate bureaucra-
cy-the nameless and faceless people," he 
says. "I was hoping Yale would see that they're 
pissing off their own students with their deci-
sions." Unfortunately, one day's notice on a 
weekend eviction doesn't provide much time 
to get the word out, let alone allow under-
graduates to contact Yale officials. Shapiro 
knows this and credits the university with 
strategic timing. 

"Man, they can't close this place down," a 
local man interrupts. "It's practically a New 
Haven landmark. How can they do this to 
you?" Shapiro grimaces and says, "The short 
answer is money. They're forcing me out." His 
young daughter tentatively approaches and 
sits next to him while his wife looks on. "''m 
out of an income--1 don't have a job any-
more," Shapiro says between the goodbyes of 
friends and customers. The scene is pathetic. 
The contents of the store rolling by us seem to 
be the death-knell of the family-run business. 
"Yale killed the little guy again," mumbles an 
employee. 

In anticipation of school starting, Shapiro 
repainted the Daily three days ago. "I wanted 
the place to feel fresh and new and welcom-
ing," he says. And indeed, he did attract stu-
dents who were enticed by the brighter interi-
or. "This morning a freshman came in with 
her mother," says Shapiro. "They were look-
ing around and I could see that they liked the 
place. She came up to me and said, 'You have 
my business for the next four years."' Shapiro's 
expression contoru and he sighs. "I didn't 
have the heart to tell her that I won't be here 
come tomorrow morning." 


**Title: The Quiet Lesson**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale medical students and residents learn that not only patients face difficult choices about abortion.


My wife finished medical school last year. She never heard the word "abortion" uttered in a classroom. Which medical school was it that neglects to expose students to what is one of the most common surgeries among women? Yale.
-Jack Hill, Th~ N~ York Tim~s Magazin~, Jan. 18, 1998
Jennifer Kreshak (MED '99) is flipping through stacks of old classroom notes. "Gynecological oncology... hormonal patterns... contraception ... " she murmurs, rattling off title topics of lectures from two years back. "Physiology of pregnancy ... infections ... menopause ... " She's fairly certain that she never heard abortion outlined, or even mentioned, in the female reproduction classes which every Yale medical student is required to take, and her notes confirm this recollection.
Kreshak, who describes herself as pro-choice, isn't surprised that none of her instructors ever discussed a procedure that is the endpoint of one in four pregnancies, obtained by three percent of women of reproductive age each year in the United States. "It's not thrown in your face--if you want to learn about it, you have to go looking for it a little bit. But that's true of many things in medical school." During their third-year clinical rotation in obstetrics and gynecology (OB-GYN), which lasts six weeks, students can observe doctors in one of several New Haven-area clinics in which abortions are performed, but they are not required or directed to do so. "The opportunity is mentioned but not repeated," said Kreshak, who wimessed eight abonions during her rotation. Grace Koning (MED '99), coordinator of the Yale chapter of Medical Students for Choice, added, "On rotation, the resident is like your boss, and she just tells you where she wants you to go. In that sense, [observing abortions] is not optional but nobody is going to force you to do something you don't want to do. The residents like to consider themselves laissez-faire."
This hands-off approach to teaching medical students the basics of abortion is borne out by law. Recent amendments to U.S. public health codes establish defenses against "abonion-related discrimination": federal funds ace not withheld from physician training programs that do not teach abortion, and no resident or student is required to perform or receive instruction in abonion services.
Religious prerogatives also come into play. At Yale, one clinical rotation site is Saint Raphael's Hospital, which is administered by Catholic nuns. A medical student assigned to Saint Raphael's for her OB-GYN rotation not only never hears "abortion" uttered in the hospital corridors, but a concept as essential to a gynecologist's knowledge as contraception is also taboo. "You can't write 'binh control' on a patient's chan at Saint Raph's," a resident explained. "It's still amazing to me that that is the case. You have to say something like 'hormonal regulation.' You can talk frankly with your patients-I'm not going to walk into the room and ask a patient if she wants her menses regulated-but you also have to watch out for the nuns."
There are holes in OB-GYN-related education and training at Yale, SEPTEMBER 4, 1998 but the fact that the university offers comprehensive abortion instruction at all comes as a relief to pro-choice activists alarmed by the shrinking number of physicians who perform abortions in the U.S. The most recent Planned Parenthood survey estimates that just 12 percent of post-graduate physicians' training programs offer routine instruction in first-trimester terminations, down from 22 percent in the mid-1980s.
The current figures weaken one resident's assertion that "as long as there are residency programs, women will be able to obtain abonions."
Nonetheless there is no obvious sense of impending crisis in New Haven. The Yale wing of Medical Students for Choice is hardly a rabble-rousing bunch, or even a lobbying force: Koning lists its main activities as hosting speakers and sending letters of suppon to local abonion providers. Susan Yolen, director of marketing and public affairs for Planned Parenthood of Connecticut, can dig up any number of troubling statistics like the numbers above, but she finds reassurance in the 4,000 members nationwide of Medical Students for Choice. "If half of those [students] go on to provide abortions, then they would double the number of providers we have in this country now, which would lead us to believe that our future is secure," she said.
Half might prove too high an aim, since pro-choice leanings don't automatically translate into practice. As resident Andrea Jefriss put it, "I'm a pro-choice person, but I don't teach [abortions] and I don't perform them because I have religious reasons not to. People should have a choice, and I've chosen." Yolen's hopes for larger numbers of abortion providers in the near future also appear too optimistic when seen within the microcosm of the academically-oriented Yale residency program, where doctors pursue narrow specialties and few plan to become primary care physicians. Upon closer inspection, the Tim~ls stab at Yale's negligence in teaching abortion appears misdirected; as Kreshak clarified, the more imponant issue "is not what's going on in the medical school but what's going on with the residents."
Roughly three-fourths ofYale-associated OB-GYN residents, scattered across several clinics and hospitals in southern Connecticut, perform abortions. Contrary to nationwide statistics, "I don't see a dwindling number of physicians providing abortions," one resident, "Dr. Bennen," said. (Several residents would only speak on the condition of anonymity.) "That's not to say we're not entering a changing time," he continued. "The older physicians, who were around before abortion was legal, have a very different viewpoint. You hear about 'septic wards,' 23


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
chemotherapeutic agent that destroys the 
rapidly dividing cells df the early embryo-
have been frequent topics in the science media 
for some time. "One of our biggest priorities 
right now is in non-surgical options ... that 
make abortion a more private, less invasive 
matter, something that a woman can do at 
home," Yolen of Planned Parenthood said. 

Investigations of the long-term effects of 
methotrexate, as well as efforts to reduce the 
duration of RU-486 treatment and the heavy 
bleeding it causes, "ace areas for active 
research," Dr. Merrick said, "but it's not dis-
cussed. I've never heard it discussed. And I'm 
not sure how much it really needs to be dis-
cussed. D&C [dilation and curatage, the stan-
dard surgical procedure for first-trimester 
abortions] is hundreds of years old. It's safe, 
effective, and has been proven over time." Dr. 
Bennett offers another rationale: "There ace 
just more pressing issues out there. If you had 
me choose between research funds for abor-
tion or AIDS, I'd choose AIDS." 

That word "choose," so long the buzz-
word of the abortion rights movement, seems 
equally important to these abortion providers 
as to the advocates of the women they treat. 
They choose their words and actions accord-
ing to sometimes confl.icting concerns about 
their livelihood, reputation, academic inter-
ests, and humanitarian impulses. Dr. Mer-
rick's and Dr. Bennett's comments may smack 
of complacency or rationalization, but these 
doctors tread on treacherous ground. And 
they take their work home with them. ''I'm 
adopted, so it's a little weird for me," Dr. Ben-
nett said. "If abortion had been readily avail-
able in 1970, I might have been an abortion." 

Dr. Bennett and Dr. Merrick leave the 
impression as well that they ace, for now, sim-
ply biding their time. There may come a day 
when they hold positions of power in which 
they can make more audacious, and perhaps 
more public, choices about how abortion is 
performed and researched, and how easily 1t 
can be obtained. One might wonder if these 
choices can be made from within an ivory 
tower. 

Ia) 
Jessica Winter, a senior in Saybrook College, is a 
managing editor ofTNJ. 


**Deconstructing jerry**
**Author: Andrew Youn**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE DAYTIME TRASH HEAP IS GAMSON'S GOLD MINE. 
Andrew Youn 
Freaks Talk Back, Joshua Gamson (University of Chicago Press, 1998), pp. 288. 
I Can't Stop Cheating! 
"Brandy has been a busy girl. She's a 
newlywed and she's already cheating on her 
husband, Bobby, with her co-worker, 
Celeste. Bobby gets the double-whammy 
when Brandy then introduces her other 
lover, Ariwna! Bobby demands a divorce 
while Celeste and Arizona argue over who 
gets Brandy." 
. 
So reads the official plug for the July 
28, 1998 ferry Springer Show-a twisted 
love square with Arizona, Bobby, Brandy 
and Celeste at the corners. Most of us 
would readily dismiss this program as 
another example of televised inanity. 
However, one Yale professor would happily 
glean some academic points on sex identiry 
from such a paragraph. 
Joshua Gamson, Yale sociologist, is the 
author of Freaks Talk Back, a book that 
explains public con ceptions of sexual 
identity and deviance by studying talk 
shows. 
Gamson, 
a 
self-described 
"scholarman and gayman," is interested in 
how perceptions of sexual outsiders are 
constructed in American public culture. He 
roots his book in the abundant and fertile 
dirt of talk shows. 
Freaks Talk Back presents a staggering 
amount of research. Gamson has read over 
160 talk show transcripts, interviewed 20 
talk show production staff members and 44 
guests, facilitated 13 focus group 
discussions with 75 regular talk show 
viewers and, most impressively, watched a 
mind-numbing 100 hours of taped shows. 
(He is also the proud owner of the 
infamous "Jerry Springer Too Hot for TV" 
video and is probably the only American 
able to deduct the cost of this gem from his 
taXes as a business expense). 

The result of this exhaustive research is 
a book that seems to cover every skirmish 
over sexual identiry ever fought on the talk 
show battlefield. Most fundamentally, 
Gamson challenges the immediate 
assumption that talk shows' freak-
treatment of gays and other sexual 
outsiders is necessarily bad. Instead he 
argues that these shows are significant 
components of public dialogue and deserve 
scholarly attention. Gamson points out 
that talk shows are one of the few public 
venues afforded to sexual ~onconformists, 
which he thinks makes them noteworthy 
and worth studying. 

Gamson starts with a brief history of 
talk shows, traci!lg their evolution from 
"the mother of all talk shows," Donahue, to 
the emotional Oprah Winfrey Show, to the 
now-familiar "trash" shows such as Ricki, 
SalLy fessy Raphael and ferry Springer. 
Interestingly, he reminds the reader that 
talk shows used to be everytfiing that sexual 
nonconformists could have hoped for. 
Donahue, 
for 
example, 
presented 
respectable, well-educated gays during a 
time when media appearances elsewhere 
were scarce. 

Continuing his historical look, Gamson 
then tackles the more difficult and recent 
talk shows, which focus on freakish guests 
who flash their sexual deviance. These 
shows feature the "deviants" we have all 
come to recognize: "lipstick lesbians," 
"cross-dressing hookers," "drag kings" and 
"transsexual call girls." Do the Freaks talk 
back? Responding thematically, he answers: 
sometimes yes, sometimes no. Gamson 
argues that talk shows improve the 
visibiliry of sexual nonconformists, but do 
so by exposing only their unattractive, less 
socially acceptable undersides. 

This kind of wishy-washy answer 
characterizes the next few chapters of the 
book. Employing an "on the one hand, on 
the other hand" approach makes the 
middle section of the book somewhat 
incoherent. The reader learns that talk 
shows are constructed on a foundation of 
lies, yet reveal bursts of truth about sex 
identiry that do not show up anywhere else 
in pop culture. We are told in one chapter 
that 
talk 
shows 
sometimes 
cast 
homophobes in a negativ~ light, but at 
other times justify anti-gay rhetoric. Next, 
Gamson posits that talk shows briefly 
challenge fixed sex identity norms, but 
then quickly reassure the television viewer 
that sex categories are still what they used 
to be. Although it is gratifying that these 
points are brought out in their full 
complexity, 
the book lacks clear 
organization and is more often incoherent 
than illuminating. 

This incoherence does not infringe on 
the book's entertainment value. As one of 
his themes, Gamson purports to explain 
how the institutional arrangements of talk · 
shows shape the dialogue that occurs on 
the set. When talking about the "booking" 
process and its effect on talk show 
dialogue, Gamson relates interviews with 
producers that reveal how sleazy they really 
are. He tells the story of Linda Phillips, the 
transsexual guest who arrived on the set 
only to find out that the other guests were 
weight lifrers and the world's tallest man. 
When she refused to go on this "freak 
show," producers withheld her plane ticket 
home. 

Another producer tried to book a 
woman whose five-year-old daughter had 
allegedly been raped by her HN-positive 
husband during their wedding reception. 
The producer recounts, "I remember being 
on the phone with the mother, saying, you 
know, 'The best thing for you to do is 
come on this show and cell your story,' that 
whole bullshir. You know, let me exploit 
you even more. You'v~ been through hell, 
come on TV and talk about it." 

Unfortunately, Gamson does not always 
do an effective job at showing how these 
horrific (and secretly titillating) production 
arrangements structure the dialogue on the 
set of talk shows. As the book progresses, 
this theme is more often presented almost 
as an afterthought-instead of taking a 
central role in the book, the talk show 
institution 
and 
its 
production 
arrangements seem secondary to portraying 
what actually occurs on the set. One wishes 
he had established a clear tie between the 
shenanigans that occur in front of and 
behind the curtains. 

The book's redeeming moment arrives 
in chapter six, entitled "Flaunting It." It 
begins with one of the book's best devices: 
Gamson's personal anecdotes, which at 
rimes transform the book into a calk show 
about its author. 
Gamson 
relates his coming-out 
experiences in the Yale; classroom. "Taking a 
deep breath, I would walk in, strip off my 
sweater, and reveal a T-shirt: pink triangle, 
'Silence = Death,' black background. 'What 
does the T-shirt mean?' I would ask. 'Why 
would I want to wear it here? Isn't my 
sexuality none of your business?' Many 
nodded, but the elementary lesson got 
through: sexual identity, like it or not, is all 
about power; although to me my gay self is 
increasingly boring, it has become 
increasingly political; this moment, me 
standing before you in a T-shur, is politics." 

This chapter is all about politics. 
Gamson argues that talk shows "put a face" 
on homosexuality, revealing the real people 
who are victims of bigotry. "Talk show 
visibility, when it is seen as an important 
cultural wing of a political project, sets in 
motion its own localized politics." Starring 
with chis late chapter, Gamson turns his 
research into an effective study on talk 
show-shaped sex identity that relates to 
visibility in pop culture and politics. 

As expected, the. ''on the one hand, on 
the other hand" treatment re-emerges, but 
it is more relevant and dearly-written this 
time around. He examines how talk shows 
reflect and exacerbate divisions between 
upper-class and lower-class gays. Also, he 
constructs an interesting argument 
suggesting that the wedding of "personal 
and political" on talk shows is perhaps 
detrimental to the protection of the privacy 
of gays and sexual outsiders. These are all 
themes that have larger currency among 
academics and activists-people who are 
not merely interested in a book about 
trashy television. 

This chapter, like the rest of the book, 
has no clear answer as to whether or nor 
talk shows are good or bad for public 
media perceptions; but upon reflection, 
maybe this is a feat in and of itself. 
Gamson has started with the traditional 
assumption chat talk shows freakify sexual 
outsiders, and fought to the middle ground 
where that point is not so clear after all. If 
you've ever watched talk shows, which 
seem to gather a bunch of ignorant people 
together so they can take vicious verbal 
blows at each other, the argument is all the 
more impressive. 

Gamson points out that the talk shows' 
complete lack of a message may lead to an 
increase in tolerance. "Over rime, the talk 
shows have managed to do for their 
audiences what no one else has: to make 
homosexuality, and even transsexualism 
and bisexuality, basically dull." He quotes a 
guest on Ricki, who says, "These shows, 
however vacuous, may be eroding 
homophobia by their sheer lack of 
commitment to any point of view." 

Though talk shows lack any discernible 
viewpoint, they make sexual "deviance" 
seem commonplace and even boring. 
Freaks Talk Back can be credited with an 
impressively thorough investigation of a 
surprising topic. As Gamson points out, talk 
shows are one of the most accessible media 
outlets for gays and other sexual outsiders, 
and are certainly worth academic attention. 
Although the complex themes that Gamson 
charts out sometimes lose coherence in the 
telling, with their development the book 
becomes more relevant to areas of public life 
beyond talk shows. And hey-with section 
titles like "Defecating in public" and 
"Donna wears a jockstrap! Donna wears a 
jockstrap!" the book is not nearly as dry as 
one might expect. 

Andrew Youn, a junior in Calhoun College, is a 
research director ofTNJ. 


**Serious Fun**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 30**

B ONING UP ON THE A&F LIFESTYLE 
by Daniel Brook 
With an expected fall circulation of over one million, 
the admen who designed Abercrombie & Fitch's A & F 
Quarterry know they have a hit on their hands. Their 
publication may be the most widely read piece of 
junk mail in the history of the genre, or at least it 
seems to be within the. 06520 zip code .. The cata-
logue-cum-magazine can be found on common 
room coffee tables peacefully coexisting with Sports 
Illustrated and The New lOrker (whose circulation it 
exceeds by 200,000 readers despite a $10 "subscription 
fee," a cost mysteriously waived for Princeton students). 

Down at the ad agency, has all this success gone to their heads? No, 
that would violate the cardinal rule of the ''A & F lifestyle": never take 
yourself seriously. 

In his convened warehouse office in Greenwich Village, I spent an 
hour listening to Savas (surnames are so serious), a recent Vassar grad 
and brain behind the Quarterry, preach the gospel according to A & F. 
According to Savas, the tide of the summer issue, "Seeking Serious 
Fun," says it all. Don't let the cover photograph confuse you as it did 
me: I thought the gaunt model hosing down her buff but unthreaten-
ing male friend must be on some sort of hunger strike. As I soon 
learned, only people who take themselves seriously would assume 
something like that. She's just too busy seeking serious fun to take time 
out for meals. 

What sets the Abercrombie catalogue apart from the rest is its 
unique magazine section selling not clothes but "lifestyle" ---everything 
from what to listen co and read, to where to work and travel. Most 
striking about this "editorial section" (as Savas referred to it-I'm sure 
he didn't mean to come off sounding so serious) is how frequently it 
endorses things seemingly contrary to the fanatical consumerism of a 
company like Abercrombie. In the "Essential Summer Reading" sec-
tion, the QJulrterry suggests the Utne Reader, which bills itself as "the 
~ best of the alternative media." The Utne issue shown features a story 
~ attacking the corporate world-particularly youth-oriented clothing 
o companies-for co-opting hipness, neutralizing its rebellious anti-con-
~ sumerism and political radicalism. The Quarterry also endorses the 
~ fanzine Grand Royal crowing, "In the future we will all dress at thrifr 
~ stores if the editors of Grand RoyaL have their way." 
8 
"But not if A & F has its way?" I asked Savas. 
~ 
"Exactly," he replied. "It's kind of flippant." 
I was still confused. Sensing my bemusement, Savas invoked the 
cardinal rule: "You uy not to take yourself too seriously." 

Who has time to think about what one reads when there 
are so many shades of cargo pants to choose from? I 
guess if you're wondering why you're paying $30 for 
an A & F T-shirt instead of stopping by the Crown 
Street Salvation Army, you're taking yourself too seri-
ously. And if you go on to ponder why a T-shirt sells 
for $30 when the Third World kid who made it got 
paid two dollars per day, then you're really taking your-
self too seriously. 

But if you're even thinking about shirts this season, you're 
hopelessly gauche-anyone flipping through the A & F Quarterrywill 
come to the quick conclusion that men's shirts of any kind are not in 
style. Better save your 30 bucks for a gym membership (when shirts are 
out, pees are in) or two pairs of A & F boxer shorts. No shirts means 
exposed underwear elastic. And unless that elastic is emblazoned with 
"Abercrombie & Fitch," good luck getting the other boys to grope you. 

When I asked Savas why the A & F boys, living in an eternal sum-
mer of beautifully famished women, seem so interested in each other, 
he first tried pleading ignorance. "It's in the eye of the beholder," he 
tried to convince me, but he couldn't keep a straight face. Trying to 
stick to the party line, he added, "Straights see it as active and exciting, . 
and if you're gay or whatever you're gonna see it as homoerotic." Afrer I 
had clicked "Stop" on my tape recorder, Savas told it to me straight: 
"There is a lot of homoeroticism that goes on here, but it's not some-
thing we want to be known for," especially with the honchos at A & F 
headquarters in Ohio. 

Seen from Savas's Greenwich Village office, these corporate titans 
must appear to be taking themselves too seriously. The execs themselves 
would probably take a different view: in middle America it must appear 
that the Village set, with their demands for things like gay rights, are 
taking themselves too seriously. The A & F philosophy translates into 
blindly accepting whatever you've been brought up believing. Luckily 
for A & F, these days most everyone's been brought up to believe that 
you are what you buy. If the content of the Quarterry is in the eye of a 
beholder who doesn't take himself too seriously, A & F will do just fine. 

Savas said that he could "respect an article like the Utne Reader cover 
story, but it's a matter of how far you take it. You can only critique 
things to a certain extent and then you need to live your life." 
"And then you need something to wear?" I asked. 
"Exactly." 

Daniel Broc!( is a junior in Davenport College. 




Print and 
Mail 
Services 
155 Whitney Avenue 
432-6560 
~X : 432-6274 
EMAIL: AFDLETII®YaleADS 
149 York Street 
432-2679 
ALSO OFFERING 
Full color copies 
Course materials 
Complete mall service 
Graphic design 
Affordable Copies 
Quick turnaround 
High quality 
'"''s -
~1!\ 
a 
-=Pickup and 
\;1 
~ 
delivery 
Offset printing 
Optical character recognition 
Network accessibility 


