Publication date: May 2024
Volume: 56
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-in-Chief: Maggie Grether, Chloe Nguyen
- Executive Editor: Aanika Eragam
- Managing Editor: Samantha Liu
- Verse Editors: Ingrid Rodríguez Vila, Etai Smotrich-Barr
- Senior Editors: Jabez Choi, Paola Santos, Viola Clune, Kylie Volavongsa, Abbey Kim, Anouk Yeh
- Associate Editors: Chloe Budakian, Tina Li, Ben Card, Sophia Liu, Koby Chen, Hannah Mark, Ashley Choi, Calista Oetama, Matias Guevara Ruales, Josie Reich, Mia Rose Kohn, Jack Rodriquez-Vars, Sophie Lamb
- Copy Editors: Sara Cao, Sophie Molden, Lilly Chai, Sasha Schoettler, Diego del Aguila, Victoria Siebor, Sophia Groff, Vivian Wang
- Podcast Editor: Suraj Singareddy
- Creative Director: Chris de Santis
- Design Editors: Tashroom Ahsan, Jane Park, Sarah Feng, Cate Roser, Alicia Gan, Jessica Sánchez, Angela Huo, Daniela Woldenberg, Lily Lin, Ashley Zheng
- Photography: Nithya Guthikonda, Ellie Park
- Web Design: Makda Assefa, Serena Ulammandakh
- Members & Directors: Emily Bazelon, Haley Cohen Gilliland, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, Jonathan Dach, Susan Dominus, Kathrin Lassila, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Anson M. Beard, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Waiting for Welcome - Kylie Volavongsa
- The Reinas of New Haven - Ingrid Rodríguez Vila
- Front Runners - Megan Kernis
- Gone Fishing - Samantha Liu
- A Home Overdue - Lazo Gitchos
- Writing Up the Land - Tashroom Ahsan
- +C - Elizabeth Shvartz
- This Spring - Sophie Lamb


**Title: Waiting for Welcome**
**Author: Kylie Volavongsa**
**Page number(s): 6**

Last year, the Biden administration launched a 
national refugee sponsorship program modeled 
after a resettlement agency in New Haven—
how will it transform across the U.S.?


**Title: The Reinas of New Haven**
**Author: Ingrid Rodríguez Vila**
**Page number(s): 16**

1,625 miles from the island of their 
heritage, New Haven teens aspire to 
become the city’s next Miss Puerto Rico.


**Title: Front Runners**
**Author: Megan Kernis**
**Page number(s): 24**

From East Rock to the Olympic Marathon Trials, all roads lead to 
the New Haven Road Runners


**Title: Gone Fishing**
**Author: Samantha Liu**
**Page number(s): 30**

Connecticut fishermen become reluctant fighters to protect their 
waters against commercial fisheries.


**Title: A Home Overdue**
**Author: Lazo Gitchos**
**Page number(s): 33**

Rent hikes and poor living conditions are driving tenants to 
unionize across New Haven, but the city remains ill-equipped for 
collective action.


**Title: Writing Up the Land**
**Author: Tashroom Ahsan**
**Page number(s): 36**

Yale’s land acknowledgement promises to recognize the displaced 
Indigenous peoples of Connecticut, but not everyone is convinced.


**Title: +C**
**Author: Elizabeth Shvartz**
**Page number(s): 38**

[This content is likely a poem but is not provided in the source text.]


**Title: This Spring**
**Author: Sophie Lamb**
**Page number(s): 44**



**Title: Letter from the editors**
**Author: Managing Board**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,
Newness is a slippery concept. For fifty-seven years, The New Journal has 
found novel ways to tell stories with familiar themes—justice, resilience, 
tradition, and rupture. As the new board of The New Journal, we will uphold 
this magazine’s longstanding mission: to describe a world in flux with 
human nuance.

In Volume 56, Issue 5, we find the face of America shifting across 
generational lines. Two of our writers pay homage to local migrant 
communities. Our cover story, by Kylie Volavongsa, examines the national 
application of a New Haven-based refugee resettlement model, which 
places the future of resettlement in the hands of everyday Americans. Ingrid 
Rodríguez Vila glimpses home in the Puerto Rican diaspora of New Haven, 
where local teens aspire to lead their community in a cultural pageant. 
In other pages, people defend their homes. Disgruntled neighbors organize 
into a tenants union; Yale and Connecticut’s Indigenous communities 
interrogate the University’s land acknowledgment; and a ragtag group of 
fishermen fight to preserve their waters. 

As we release this issue, the war on Gaza and campus protests across 
the country continue. The day after our first weekend of editing, student 
protestors occupied Beinecke Plaza and demanded that Yale immediately 
disclose its endowment holdings and divest from military weapons 
manufacturing. One week later, on Monday, April 22nd, Yale police arrested 
forty-eight of the protesters, including forty-four Yale students. As we watch 
students gather at the plaza, in the streets, and on Cross Campus, we are 
reminded that putting words to the present is an increasingly important and 
fraught task.

In the year to come, we will remain committed to this task, writing stories 
that document history and generate change. We tuck this issue into The 
New Journal archive, and release it out to you–these stories, as Samantha Liu 
writes, may now “ripple into either memory or possibility.” 

For now,
Maggie, Chloe, Aanika, Sam


--- Page 3 ---

3
May 2024
personal essays
I Love Line Cooks
By Chesed Chap
Pearland, Texas
By Lucy Ton That
photo essay
Flash Fictions
By Tony Potchernikov
asides
Tears Beneath the Tension Rods
By Mia Rose Kohn
endnote
From an Orchid Nursery
By Zoya Haq
image credits: 
Chris de Santis (Cover, Bottom); Etai Smotrich-Barr (Top)



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Megan Kernis**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
May 2024          TheNewJournal
Points of Departure
Front Runners
From East Rock to the Olympic Marathon 
Trials, all roads lead to the New Haven 
Road Runners
I
n early February, Kidan Kidane 
YSN ’24 stood behind the line at 
the 2024 Women’s U.S. Olympic 
Marathon Trials in Orlando, Florida. 
She steeled herself for the 26.2 miles 
ahead, while New Haven runners 
gathered around their TVs to watch 
her on the race livestream. 

Two years earlier, before moving to 
New Haven, Kidane thought she had 
given up competitive running. Born 
in Ethiopia and raised in the state 
of Georgia, Kidane had been run-
ning since high school. She received a 
track scholarship to Kennesaw State 
University to run the 5K and 10K, but 
she stopped running after graduation to 
pursue nursing. When she came to Yale 
for her master’s degree, Kidane discov-
ered a robust running community that 
reignited her interest in the sport—this 
time at much longer distances. 

Remarkably, Kidane was one of four 
runners from New Haven who com-
peted in the Olympic trials. Just ten 
minutes before she lined up, Connor 
Rockett YSE ’24, Ben Decker SOM ’23, 
and John McGowan ’13 had begun run-
ning at the Men’s trials. 

The Olympic Marathon Trials, one 
of the most prestigious competitions 
for runners, only occurs once every four 
years. The qualifying times––2:18 for 
men and 2:37 for women––are nearly a 
full hour faster than those of the Boston 
Marathon. Even so, New Haven run-
ners have a surprisingly large presence 
in this exclusive race. 

While New Haven locals form 
the base of the city’s running commu-
nity, many runners are Yale affiliates, 
meaning the running community is 
highly transient. One might expect 
that such high turnover rates make it 
difficult for runners to create a last-
ing community beyond the confines 
of Yale. However, the city’s running 
community shatters this assumption, 
producing lifelong friendships and 
national accomplishments. 

As Kidane recounted her run-
ning journey to me over a phone call a 
month after the trials, I could hear the 
hunger for the sport in her voice. “I go 
out hard and race aggressively,” she told 
me, confidence underscoring her words. 
“An experienced runner told me they 
didn’t think I could do it, so I thought 
to myself, ‘Watch me.’” She ran the 
Boston Marathon in 2:36:22, qualifying 
for the trials with thirty-eight seconds 
to spare—even after stopping to puke 
(“twice,” she added). 

Kidane and her fellow Olympic 
trial qualifiers—Rockett, Decker, and 
McGowan—train with New Haven 
Road Runners (NHRR), the primary run 
club in New Haven. The group offers 
daily 6:30 a.m. runs and social night 
runs on Wednesdays open to anyone. 
Unlike most run clubs, the routes are 
designed by their coach, Jake Jayworth. 
Also the professional coach for the 
Fairfield University cross country team, 
Jayworth has a USA Track and Field 
Level 1 coaching certification and a 
master’s degree in Exercise Science. He 
works individually with runners and 
designs daily routes for NHRR. 

Since reinstating daily runs at the 
end of 2020, the club has amassed over 
three hundred members and beaten 
almost every previous club record. The 
Wednesday night social runs have 
become particularly popular, with nearly 
forty runners showing up for the con-
versational jog and post-run hangout at 
The Trinity Bar. Other seasoned NHRR 
runners have joined each other in run-
ning ultramarathons under the influence 
of psilocybin, also known as shrooms. 

NHHR has also been a space for reflec-
tion. In 2023, NHRR runner Miche Palmer 
YSE ’17 founded a book club for the 
group. Popular titles include “Choosing 
to Run” by Des Linden and “Good for 
a Girl” by Lauren Fleshman, prompting 
discussion about the systemic inequalities 
in running, like the lack of recognition 
for female athletes. “[New Haven] is not 
like New York where there’s a bunch of 
different run clubs. NHRR is trying to fig-
ure out how to be a club for a lot of dif-
ferent people,” explained Jayworth.

I ran my first marathon last year. 
After tumbling over the finish line, I 
told myself it would be my last. Much 
like Kidane, I fell out of competitive 
running before moving to New Haven. 
Kidane had graduated from college and 
was on her own working in Atlanta 
when she stopped racing, and I was in a 
small town with an even smaller popu-
lation of runners. However, New Haven 
provided me with a community that 
reinvigorated my love for running. On 
one particularly rainy day, as I trudged 
through the mud in East Rock and rued 
my decision to run, I passed another 
runner. He cheered at our shared ded-
ication, and I couldn’t help but  laugh at 
the absurdity of the situation and enjoy 
it for what it was. 

Though Yale Club Running fore-
grounds my running community here, 
my occasional interactions with NHRR 
have helped me reflect on my relation-
ship with the sport. Even when I’m run-
ning alone, passing NHRR runners on the 
track or on local routes encourages me 
to keep going. On Strava, a social media 
app where runners connect online to 
share their runs, I’ve found an online 
community with members of NHRR like 
Kidane. Since the start of my collegiate 
career this past fall, I’ve run too many 
5Ks and two marathons—despite having 
“retired” last year. 

Earlier this month, as I stood at 
the start line of my most recent mar-
athon, the excitement from the past 
few months of running in New Haven 
surged through me. My confidence was 
high knowing that the friends I’d spent 
tens of hours running with were all 
around me, gearing up for the same race. 
That day, I set my own personal record 
and set my sights on the next race.  ∎
Megan Kernis is a first-year in 
Ezra Stiles College.


**Title: Tears Beneath the Tension Rods**
**Author: Mia Rose Kohn**
**Page number(s): 5**

5
TheNewJournal          May 2024
Illustration by Chris de Santis
Today my closet fell down and I cried. 
How does a closet fall down? the inquisitive 
reader might wonder. The truth is that I 
have no closet––I have two tension rods. 

Many months ago, when I was a tension 
rod virgin and the world was beautiful, I 
arrived at my humble Old Campus suite 
after my roommate. She got the desk 
next to the window and the singular 
closet bar. I got the empty, bar-less side of 
our L-shaped “closet.” Amazon tension 
rods it was. (Was this my mistake? My 
tears a punishment for lazy participation 
in late-stage capitalism?) 

I placed the silver rods as so: one 
higher and farther back in the cavity and 
the other lower and in front. I called them 
Rodrigo (no, not Olivia––I am not a fan. 
Repetitive themes and lacking lyrics) and 
Mitt Rodney (also not a fan). They began 
level. Days passed, and Rodney’s right arm 
slipped an inch. Slipped two. Rodrigo 
followed. On one fateful day, Rodrigo 
and Rodney lost their pathetic grip on the 
stucco walls and crashed to the cold floor. I 
cried. I contemplated extricating the plas-
tic hangers and beloved dress straps and 
jacket sleeves and heavy coats. I elected, 
instead, to pick out items one by one, day 
by day, like a guilty ferret with her slowly 
dwindling stash. Eventually, the rods were 
emptied and reinstalled anew. 

This cycle has repeated for nine 
months, culminating always in Rodrigo 
and Rodney’s special time of strife (come 
to think of it, we might be synced). And of 
course, the deluge of fabric coincides with 
the Worst. Day. Ever. Terrible French exam. 
Crash. Mother on FaceTime squints at 
the spreading acne on my chin. Crash. 
International Holocaust Remembrance 
Day (my grandmother’s a survivor). Crash. 
Today was different. Today my closet 
fell down, and, dear reader, something 
wonderful happened: I did not cry for 
the dust-stained button-downs or gar-
gantuan collection of black boots (can 
one have too many?) buried beneath the 
rubble. I cried for the French exam and 
acne-scarred chin and the Holocaust, 
for the people I miss and papers I need 
to write, for climate change and war and 
time. I did not let the clothes rest on the 
floor for a week, or two, or six (my current 
record). I picked them up, while I wept 
and wept and wept. 

Sometimes you need to cry, and the 
tension rod gods bless you in a dorm 
room closet. 
—Mia Rose Kohn
Aside


**Title: The Reinas of New Haven**
**Author: Ingrid Rodríguez Vila**
**Page number(s): 6**

6
layout design by Chris de Santis
¡Buenas tardes, New Haven!
n Wilbur Cross High School’s 
vast auditorium, the salsa music halts. 
New Haven Mayor Justin Elicker steps 
up to the podium to share a few words. 
The family next to me exchange impa-
tient whispers—clearly, he is not who 
they are here to see.

As the first pair of young women 
strut onto the stage, heralded by Daddy 
Yankee’s “BONITA,” the woman next 
to me shrieks and stands up to record. 
“Sorry,” she whispers sheepishly, as the 
duo takes their positions and poses at 
either end. Far upstage, a large banner 
features images of güiros, cuatros, and 
tambores in front of the Puerto Rican 
flag. The instruments coalesce around an 
insignia: PRU Presents Miss Puerto Rico of 
Greater New Haven 2024. 

The annual pageant, which traces its 
history in New Haven back to the nine-
teen-seventies, seeks to select a Miss and 
Junior Miss Puerto Rico to serve as role 
models for the city’s Puerto Rican youth 
and award them a scholarship prize. A 
dozen girls aged twelve to eighteen 
will each represent one of Puerto Rico’s 
seventy-eight municipalities, with their 
chosen pueblos corresponding to their 
parents’ or grandparents’ hometowns on 
the island. As they dance their opening 
salsa in a swirl of red and blue leotards, 
I notice their sashes: Miss Cayey. Miss 
Peñuelas. Miss San Juan. The atmosphere 
awakens a deep nostalgia in me—the 
music that colored my childhood on the 
island, the ritual of religiously watching 
the Miss Universe Puerto Rico broadcast 
with my family every year.

Here, over a thousand miles away 
from the island, these New Haven girls 
forge a Puerto Rican identity that is 
meaningful and true to them.

“We’re not just building our next 
reinas,” stresses Joe Rodríguez, president 
of Puerto Ricans United, the organiza-
tion that has run the pageant for the past 
two years. “We’re building our next cul-
tural ambassadors.”

II.
T
he Monday before 
the 
pag-
eant, I sit in a crowded Lorenzo’s 
Ristorante Italiano, enjoying a pre-pag-
eant dinner alongside contestants and 
their families. 17-year-old Alanna tells 
me about her first time visiting Cayey, 
Puerto Rico this past summer. She 
recalls strolling through the central 
plaza’s colonial Spanish buildings, lis-
tening to her great-grandmother’s sto-
ries. She traced the steps of her family’s 
history across the city, as though she 
were following a ghost. 

Like the streams Cayey is known 
for, Alanna’s voice is bubbly and clear. 
Last year, she was the pageant’s first 
runner-up—the First Princess. She lets 
this motivate her. “I did this last year, 
and I almost won, which means I’m 
definitely going to win this year,” she 
says, smiling.

Though its current iteration is only 
in its second year, the history of New 
Haven’s Miss Puerto Rico pageant 
stretches back much longer. 

Waves of migation formed Puerto 
Rican communities across the state 
starting 
in 
nineteen-fifties—a 
decade marked on the island by eco-
nomic uncertainty and federal crack-
downs on nationalism and cultural 
Snapshot



**Title: The Reinas of New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
symbols. In 1964, Connecticut held its 
first official Puerto Rican Day Parade 
in Hartford, to celebrate a diasporic 
culture at a time when it was manifestly 
under attack.

By the nineteen-seventies, local 
Miss Puerto Rico pageants took place 
in New Haven, Bridgeport, Waterbury, 
and more. The winners of each city’s 
pageant then competed for the state 
title, and for the honor of donning the 
crown and sash on their royal float at 
that year’s statewide parade. 
But New Haven’s last pageant took 
place in 2008. And the last parade and 
festival on the New Haven Green took 
place just a year later. Magaly Cajigas, 
the former Miss Puerto Rico of New 
Haven 1992, explained to me that the 
volunteer-run statewide pageant had 
proven difficult to organize and fund. 
Many volunteers broke away to focus 
on their own city-level cultural pro-
grams. In New Haven, eventually, sev-
eral community elders stepped down 
from their boards without leaving clear 
successors. 
Almost a decade of dreadful silence 
elapsed before Puerto Ricans United 
was able to bring bomba and plena 
back to the New Haven Green in 2016. 
In 2022, Rodríguez approached Anika 
Russell and Samary Polnett, both 
mothers and former Miss Puerto Rico 
of New Haven contestants, to gauge 
their interest in reviving the pageant 
for the following year. Eagerly, Russell 
and Polnett signed on as co-directors.
Russell tells me she credits the 
pageant with inspiring her back in 
high school. “I was going to school 
out of district, and there weren’t 
many Puerto Ricans at my school,” 
she recalls. “I was very shy, I was very 
reserved, and I felt like this pageant, 
as a teenager, instilled some self-con-
fidence, some leadership skills. It got 
me involved in my community.” 
Now, she hopes to bring that expe-
rience to a new generation of girls. For 
these girls, scattered across the Greater 
New Haven area, most have had little 
contact with Puerto Ricans beyond 
their family circles—which may them-
selves be multiethnic or generations 
removed from the island.


III.
A
t the Miss Puerto Rico of Greater 
New Haven pageant, each act is 
judged on “cultural relevance” along-
side creativity and overall presentation. 
From the pageant’s talent component, 
I recognize “Preciosa” rendered on sax-
ophone, and “La Borinqueña” drawn 
across cello strings. I’m thrilled to 
see Miss Cabo Rojo Johanelyz dance 
a bomba, a traditional Puerto Rican 
dance; like the petals of a hibiscus 
flower ruffled by the breeze, her layered 
skirt blooms and withers around her 
body as she spins.
For Alanna’s act, she performs 
“Carnaval del Barrio” from Lin-Manuel 
Miranda’s musical “In the Heights,” her 
alto reverberating through the audi-
torium. Though her mother was born 
in Cayey, Alanna’s father is Black and 
from Connecticut. As an Afro-Boricua, 
she understands that this pageant, on 
its face, asks her to embody just half of 
her identity. 
“Based on whoever is looking at me, 
they either think I’m Black or Puerto 
Rican; I’m somewhere in between. I 
like to tell myself that my ancestors on 
both sides were both taken from Africa, 
just, the ships landed in different areas,” 
Alanna says. “When people think of 
Puerto Ricans, they don’t think of 
someone that looks like me. They think 
of a specific, stereotypical Boricua, typ-
ical Latina; with the dark hair, the pale 
skin, and the brown eyes.”
The presence of this idealized 
Puerto Rican Woman seems to loom 
over all the girls. She is fuzzy—a phan-
tom—but easily distinguishable by her 
fluent Spanish, sun-kissed complexion, 
and inborn ability to dance. She rep-
resents a woman who is unquestionably 
Puerto Rican—to whom Puerto Rican-
ness offers no resistance.
I do not know what it’s like to have 
this Puerto Rican Woman peering over 
my shoulder. I’ve spent my entire life 
on the island, and I have always, more 
or less, taken my Puerto Rican-ness 
for granted. It’s never something to 
be questioned or proven. However, for 
girls growing up in New Haven who 
may not know that such a woman does 
not even exist on the island, this beau-
tiful phantom can be harder to dispel.
In the three months prior to the 
April pageant, volunteers dedicate 
themselves to helping the girls pre-
pare. They practice modeling, etiquette, 
even financial literacy. On Tuesdays, 
at Viva! Dance Center in West Haven, 
the girls learn salsa, bomba, plena, and 
other Puerto Rican dances from a for-
mer pageant queen. On Thursdays, they 
trade their dance shoes for notebooks, 
studying the history of Puerto Rico 
and their family’s pueblos.
13-year-old 
Lysella, 
the 
reign-
ing Junior Miss Puerto Rico of 
Connecticut 2023 who is representing 
San Juan in the pageant’s Junior Miss 
category, recalls being bogged down by 
pageant homework. But the work paid 
off, she tells me, beaming in a ruffled 
orange-red jumpsuit. Lysella has only 
ever visited San Juan—the city both 
her mother and I grew up in—once, 
and remembers little apart from the 
strikingly blue sixteenth-century cob-
blestones lining the Old City’s streets. 
Still, she has learned much more about 
her pueblo and Puerto Rico’s history. 
Insistently, she talked to me about la 
Ley de la Mordaza, the law that made 
it a crime to display the Puerto Rican 
flag during the nineteen-forties and 
nineteen-fifties, and the billions of dol-
lars in withheld federal aid to the island 
after 2017’s Hurricane María.
The pageant this year features a 
cultural costume component. Each 
dress transports the audience to one 
of the girls’ Puerto Rican pueblos: a 
ribbon-adorned fairy dress alludes to 
a famous Peñuelas legend; a shimmer-
ing leotard and lion mask pays homage 
to the carnivals of Ponce; a bedazzled 
boxer’s garb recalls that worn by Cabo 
Rojo’s Mayra Matos during her run 
as Miss Universe Puerto Rico 2009. 
Before the audience’s eyes, the white 
train on Lysella’s red dress morphs into 
a giant seashell that frames her, Venus-
like, as she spins around to reveal the 
design of San Juan’s crest on its back.
When Alanna steps on stage in a 
floor-length light blue dress, I notice 
the tiny model skeletons peeking out 
from between the folds of her tulle 
skirt. “Under Iglesia Nuestra Señora 
de la Asunción, there’s three hun-
dred to five hundred human remains,” 
Alanna had told me. In the auditorium, 
she turns around to reveal the face of 
the church, rendered in white and blue 
brushstrokes, before lifting her hands 
to the sky. They are bound in gold 
chains. An ode, I realize, to one of the 
deceased—a little Taíno girl, whose 
skull bears the green imprint of oxi-
dized chains.


IV.
M
iriam, the 2023 Miss Puerto Rico 
of Greater New Haven, glitters, her 
eyelids dusted with gold and her head 
crowned with gems. Reflecting on the 
end of her reign, she’s nostalgic.
“There’s no better love than the love 
Boricuas can give you,” she tells me. 
Presenting herself as Miss Puerto Rico 
at cultural parades and festivals in New 
Haven and New York City showed her 
the vibrance of the wider Puerto Rican 
community, helping her to overcome 
her doubts about her ability to repre-
sent them. 
“I was like, if I could speak Spanish, 
I know that I could really represent 
Puerto Ricans one hundred percent,” 
she recalled. “But then, that’s when I 
took that step back and I realized that, 
no, you can represent Puerto Ricans in 
so many other ways.” During her reign 
as Miss Puerto Rico, Miriam spoke at 
schools across the city, campaigned for 
autism awareness, and earned a spot on 
Connecticut’s Afro-Latino 30 Under 30.
Miriam fondly recalls spending the 
summers with her family in Caguas, 
Puerto Rico. She insists I should visit 
Plaza Palmer and stop by their giant 
birdcage—which, though I drive through


**Title: +C for Raine**
**Author: Elizabeth Shvartz**
**Page number(s): 8**

because your off-key off-beat offsets
the eighth rests demarcate mind the gap and next stop please because your calluses are legend 
in the map that is your palm that is
our palms are a chalice and i can never be half empty because there is some constant some 
speck of constellation of comet dust integral
we know nothing conditional; this love outlasts our limbs this limb is etching a boundary so far 
the gods break a sweat you can’t name gods so you sketch fourier squares
and series and something tells me 
 you will find                   someone 
                     always a way back



**Title: The Reinas of New Haven**
**Author: Ingrid Rodríguez Vila**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Caguas frequently, I had never noticed. I 
ask her if she ever felt at home there. “It’s 
complicated,” she laughs. “Being there, I 
feel like it’s a part of where I’m supposed 
to be. But where I belong is in [New 
Haven], my city. That’s how I feel.” 

Miriam is not the Puerto Rican 
Woman, that ethereal, fuzzy-edged fig-
ment. She is a true representative of her 
community, a young woman who embod-
ies the particular struggles and strengths of 
New Haven’s Puerto Rican youth.

The point of the pageant is not to 
replicate an “authentic” Puerto Rican 
cultural experience—one that is indis-
tinguishable from what exists on the 
island. Alanna, Lysella, and Miriam 
have grown up navigating cityscapes 
and braving Northeastern winters, not 
fanning themselves during heat waves 
and trying to sleep through coquí 
symphonies. The pageant is just as 
much about building a distinct New 
Haven Puerto Rican community as 
it is about connecting the girls to the 
roots common to Puerto Ricans all 
over the world. 

Lysella takes pride in her newfound 
community. “I felt disconnected from 
my own people. Now I feel more con-
nected, ‘cause…look who I’m around.” 

Alanna describes Puerto Ricans 
United as a “large family,” and her 
fellow contestants as “sisters.” She 
loves how different they all are, and 
how fiercely they support one another. 
“Even on the day of the pageant, right 
before you go on stage everyone is like, 
‘Good luck, you got this!’”

V.

In her sequined pink dress, Alanna 
walks gracefully. For someone who 
insisted that the evening gown was her 
least favorite part of the pageant, she’s 
doing a great job of hiding it. Her smile 
does not falter as she draws her final 
question from the box: “Why do you 
deserve this title?”

“I deserve this title because I’ve grown 
a lot in the past year. I’m not the same girl 
who was crowned First Princess last year, 
and I’ve learned through my mistakes 
and my failures to become a more poised, 
but also intellectual Miss Puerto Rico. As 
Miss Puerto Rico, I will—I intend to—
create a different image of Puerto Rican 
women. That we don’t have to be fiery 
and extra, that we can be passionate, and 
we can be precise, and we can be intellec-
tual. We can be smart, and we can pursue 
studies.” The crowd erupts into a deafen-
ing rumble. 

“I want to be a role model for young 
women,” Alanna finishes.

At the time, Alanna did not know 
whether she would win the title. She 
still cannot believe she can. “It’ll sink 
in later tonight,” she admits breath-
lessly. The massive crown atop her head 
has remained since it was placed there 
by Miriam. Lysella beams not too far 
behind, the Junior Miss Puerto Rico 
sash glittering against her red gown.

I don’t know exactly how the new 
Miss and Junior Miss Puerto Rico feel 
at this moment. But as I watch a color-
ful swarm of friends and family storm 
the stage, I can’t help but believe that, 
at the very least, we’re speaking the 
same language. ∎


Ingrid Rodríguez Vila 	

          is a sophomore in Branford 	

College and a Verse Editor for 
The New Journal.
Alanna adjusts her crown. 



**Title: A Home Overdue**
**Author: Lazo Gitchos**
**Page number(s): 12**

Through a soccer-ball-sized hole 
in Alex Kolokotronis’s bathroom 
floor, light shines up from the apartment 
below. The walls and ceiling are stripped 
to the studs. A layer of fine drywall dust 
coats every surface of the apartment. On 
an overstuffed living room bookshelf, 
“Every Tenant’s Legal Guide” rests atop 
Kropotkin’s “Direct Struggle Against 
Capital” and Godwin’s “An Enquiry 
Concerning Political Justice.” 

Two months ago, a pipe burst in 
Emerson Apartments, sending water 
streaming through Kolokotronis’s light 
fixture, into his bathroom, and through the 
floor into the apartment below. The flood-
ing forced Kolokotronis GRD ’23, who has 
lived in the building for seven years, and 
two other residents out of their units until 
repairs are finished. Without demolition 
permits, the landlord, Trinity Lutheran 
Church, located next door, partially gutted 
the unit to remove mold and water dam-
age: the bathroom is currently stripped to 
the framing, and the downstairs unit is vis-
ible through the floor. No work has been 
done on the apartment, Kolokotronis says, 
since the original demolition—and lack 
of proper permitting—led to a Stop Work 
order in early March. 

After the pipe burst, property man-
ager Raymond Sola texted Kolokotronis’s 
downstairs neighbor James Blau. Blau has 
lived in Emerson for twelve years with 
his cat and his 17-year-old son, of whom 
he has half custody; since February 1st, 
Blau has been unable to live with his son. 
“Rent payments continue,” Sola wrote in 
the text, “as this is not a scheduled work 
[sic].” But Kolokotronis, who completed 
a doctoral degree at Yale focused on labor 
organizing and participated in a 2017 hun-
ger strike in support of labor union Local 
33, knew this was illegal. He contacted the 
New Haven Fair Rent Commission—the 
municipal board that processes and inves-
tigates tenant complaints regarding unfair 
rent practices—which affirmed his right to 
cease rent payments while displaced. Still, 
fed up with inconsistent communication 
from the landlord, he roused his neighbors 
to form the Emerson Tenants Union. 

Over the last few years, landlords and 
city officials in New Haven have learned 
that there is a limit to what renters will tol-
erate. Between 2019 and 2023, rent in the 
city went up by an estimated 33 percent, 
far outpacing wage increases. By 2023, 52 
percent of renters in New Haven were 
cost-burdened, meaning they spent more 
than 30 percent of their income on rent. 

In the face of climbing rents and 
increasingly dangerous and illegal living 
conditions, New Haven tenants have 
arrived at their own solution: unioniza-
tion. Emerson Tenants Union is among 
five tenant unions to emerge in the city 
since the 2022 formation of the Blake 
Street Tenants Union. The Emerson 
union is the only union of the five that 
has formed in a property not owned by 
mega-landlord 
Ocean 
Management. 

Unionization beyond corporate landlords, 
which have been accused of slumlord 
practices, reflects tenants’ deeper needs 
for recognition and recourse.

Though this groundswell of tenant 
unionization seems to have momentum, 
the city’s bureaucracy has been unable to 
keep up. City agencies, like the Fair Rent 
Commission and the Liveable Cityies 
Initiative, are designed to process individ-
ual complaints and cannot handle cases 
brought collectively by tenant unions. A 
local ordinance passed two years ago bars 
landlords from retaliating against orga-
nizers over unionization, but there is no 
local, state, or federal requirement for 
property owners to bargain with a tenants 

layout design by Lily Lin



**Title: A Home Overdue**
**Author: Lazo Gitchos**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When New Haven’s Board of Alders unanimously voted to formally recognize tenant unions in 2022, it named the Fair Rent Commission (FRC) the mediator between the unions, the city, and landlords. This meant tenants unions must file with the FRC to gain official recognition. That same year, Connecticut legislature passed a law requiring towns larger than twenty-five thousand people to create their own fair rent commissions, many of which look to New Haven’s model as a successful blueprint. 

New Haven’s FRC is made up of nine board members and two permanent employees. It has the authority to strike down rent increases which it deems “harsh and unconscionable,” as well as to license inspections, issue subpoenas, and order landlords to take action to resolve issues regarding housing conditions. 

Executive Director Wildaliz Bermudez says the FRC’s mission has remained unchanged since it was incorporated in 1970. Meanwhile, the needs of tenants, the conditions of the buildings they inhabit, and the economics of the housing market may not be the same. In 2022, the FRC added a second full-time employee in response to a rising case count: since 2019, complaints have risen from a few dozen to several hundred every year. Bermudez attributes the increase to more tenants learning about redress processes, but the rise could also indicate deteriorating renting conditions across the city. 

At Emerson Apartments, conditions and communication with the landlord have deteriorated. “We let things go because we thought we had this… intimate or personal relationship with our landlord, the church,” Kolokotronis said. But tenants’ personal connections to the church disintegrated last summer following the death of a beloved church administrator, and any remaining trust evaporated after the pipe burst. When residents of the building, many of whom have lived there for at least a decade, started talking to one another, they realized they all had similar frustrations with landlord communication. “The lack of communication [from the landlord] is ridiculous,” said Yvonne Byrd-Griffin, one of the building’s tenants and a member of the labor union Local 34. “There’s so much nonsense going on.” Fellow tenant Kenneth Naito MUS ’24 didn’t know many of his neighbors until Kolokotronis made an online group chat for the building, encouraging his neighbors to form a union. From there it took just twenty-seven hours, Kolokotronis said, to sign on a supermajority of residents. Later that week, the city of New Haven certified the Emerson Tenants Union. 

Kolokotronis and others told me they feel that within its limited scope, the New Haven FRC is doing its job well, managing the often-tense relationship between landlord and individual tenant. Members of the Emerson Tenants Union relied on the FRC to get a response from their landlord, who did acknowledge that taking rent while the apartments were uninhabitable violated state law. Still, the FRC is currently only able to address complaints brought by an individual, and the protections it provides for unions is limited. Statewide tenant organization Connecticut Tenants Union President Hannah Srajer GRD ’25 told me that if FRCs were sufficient to resolve the power imbalance between landlords and tenants, “We [the union] would not exist.”


Even after forming a union, Emerson tenants face logistical hurdles. To move forward with a Fair Rent Commission complaint, Kolokotronis needed an inspection report from the city’s housing code inspection authority, the Livable City Initiative (LCI). LCI was much less responsive than the FRC, and reached no resolution. An inspection report filed February 12th––nearly two weeks after pipes began to leak––notified property manager Sola that immediate repairs would be required. Getting a copy of this report took Kolokotronis nearly six weeks. The report specified that the landlord should address the leak within seven hours. Still, it is unclear whether LCI, which has recently been criticized for inefficient and ineffective responses, followed up with the landlord. LCI staff members referred all questions to Lenny Speiller, Director of Communications for the Mayor. Speiller said that through LCI and the FRC, the City is “using all the tools in its enforcement toolkit” to address the situation at the Emerson Apartments. 

On April 22nd, Sola served Kolokotronis and Blau with Notices to Quit, the first step in the eviction process. According to the State of Connecticut Judicial Branch, such notices must be formally served, but Kolokotronis and Blau only learned of their eviction when neighbors spotted notices taped to the doors of their uninhabitable apartments. The news, they both said, was completely unexpected. Speiller told me via text that the FRC “has been in contact with the tenants and [is] reviewing the matter.” He added that it was the responsibility of the landlord to demonstrate that the notice was appropriate, and that a judge in housing court would make the final determination.

Apparently retaliatory action by landlords is nothing new. But recourse through a union in the City’s systems is. The future of rental policy will be revealed in New Haven’s response to cases like this, and the toolkit will be pushed to its limit.

The Emerson Tenants Union has struggled to bring Trinity Lutheran Church to the negotiating table. Just one of New Haven’s tenant organizations, the Blake Street Tenants Union, has reached a formal negotiation agreement with its landlord. Unlike labor unions, tenants unions have no legal provisions requiring that their landlords recognize them as bargaining units or engage in collective bargaining—negotiating leases as a group instead of as individuals. When asked about collective bargaining guarantees for tenants, State Senator Martin Looney said, “That’s what we want to move toward,” adding, “We’ll probably need state enabling legislation.”

Labor organizations benefit from a long history of hard-won legal protections. When Congress passed the National Labor Relations Act in 1935, it posited collective bargaining as a right, not a privilege. The statute is premised on the notion that strikes demanding greater rights and protections for labor unions had disrupted the flow of commerce; to limit the power of employers, the government needed a strong case for protecting the public good. Nearly one hundred years later, the process of making those demands on behalf of tenants, instead of workers, is just beginning. But the precedent exists, and many—including Senator Looney—are keen to draw the parallel.

Kolokotronis spent portions of his childhood in New York City facing housing insecurity. When he was a teenager, he saw firsthand the conditions rent hikes create: shortly after his father passed away, his family’s landlord doubled their rent, forcing him to move into an unsafe and unstable living situation. 

Now, months after unionizing, members of Emerson Tenants Union wonder what comes next. Union members and around three dozen others rallied outside city hall on April 13th, seventy-one days after Kolokotronis and Blau were forced to move into temporary accommodation. Kolokotronis, Blau, and the other displaced tenant still don’t have a livable home to return to.

“What’s the point of forming a union if no one at city hall will meet with us as a union?” Blau asked the crowd at the rally.

On March 21st, three weeks after issuing the Stop Work order, the City of New Haven Building Department issued a building permit to Trinity Lutheran Church to begin repairs on the damaged units. As of April 13th, repairs had not yet begun. Speiller said that the building department had placed a lien on the property, which will be lifted only when repairs are made and inspected. The landlord has not provided tenants with any information regarding a timeline for repairs. Sola and attorney Che Tiernan did not respond to requests for comment.

At the City Hall rally, union members carried signs and a megaphone. Organizers from Hartford, Hamden, and other cities were present in solidarity with the group’s demand: to meet with city leaders, including Mayor Elicker and Alders, to resolve the stagnation. No city officials were present. 

Signs show that the City may be responding to tenant unions’ evolving needs, if slowly. Mayor Justin Elicker’s administration, beginning April 22nd, contracted former mayoral candidate Liam Brennan as a consultant to help overhaul LCI. It’s a clear response to public demand—what Brennan describes as a need to establish tenants’’ rights in the face of commodification. Housing becomes commodified, he explained, when property is used primarily to build wealth and capital rather than to serve a need for shelter. He added that alternate structures like tenant unions will likely continue to drive policy “from the bottom up,” forcing broader legislative action over time.

Where labor unions are strong, research finds that non-union wages go up too. Tenant unions in acutely commodified housing might raise the standard landlords must meet, even for non-unionized tenants—if organizers can compel city bureaucracy to afford tenant unions the same protections as labor unions.

When Blau texted property manager Sola to ask whether he could be refunded for rent during the period in which he was forced to move out, Sola responded, “Life is not fair. That’s what insurance is for.” And while the FRC was able to nudge the landlord into following the law, it has so far failed to create a long-term resolution to the situation at Emerson Apartments. The members of the Emerson Tenants Union know that life isn’t fair. But, they believe, that’s what a union is for. ∎


**Waiting for Welcome**
**Author: Kylie Volavongsa**
**Page number(s): 17, 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Last year, the Biden administration launched a national refugee 
sponsorship program modeled after a resettlement agency’s in New 
Haven—how will it transform across the U.S.?
By Kylie Volavongsa
layout design BY ALICIA GAN And Chris de Santis


L
ast december, Yazan Al Doumani received 
an email he’d been waiting thirteen years for. He 
was at an office desk in West Hartford during 
what had been an unassuming workday at Integrated 
Refugee & Immigrant Services (IRIS). But that after-
noon, an office director sent a staff-wide message 
announcing the launch of a public initiative that 
could allow Yazan to see his family finally.

Yazan immediately opened the homepage 
of the Welcome Corps, a national program that 
launched in January 2023. It allows ordinary U.S. 
citizens to voluntarily sponsor refugee families and 
assist them toward self-sufficiency in the States. 
Have you watched the news unfolding around the 
world, read an earlier version of the website, and 
wished there was something you could do? Yazan 
thought of his mother, Abir, his brothers, Ghaith 
and Yaman, and his sister, Joudi. The four are still 
currently 5,633 miles away in Jordan, where they 
have been since their displacement at the 2011 out-
break of the Syrian civil war. 
“I had a feeling inside that—oh my god—my 
family could actually come soon to [this] country and 
I can reunite with them here,” Yazan would later tell 
me. He began his application to become a Welcome 
Corps sponsor. He began to hope for the best. 
Yazan is 22 years old, an assistant of IRIS’ 
Housing & Donations team, and a student at 
Central Connecticut State. He has a penchant for 
Premier League soccer and—“it’s gonna sound 
weird,” he warned me—teeth. He’s studying 
pre-dentistry, and tells me that tooth enamel is 
stronger than rocks. 
Yazan was born in the U.S., but his family 
moved to Syria soon after, where they lived until 
the beginning of the war. He was 8 when he moved 
back to the States as a U.S. citizen. Yazan was joined 
only by his father, Mohamed, whose visa had been 
approved by the Department of State. Meanwhile, 
the visa applications of Yazan’s mother, brothers, 
and sister had all been denied.

In 2011, the year Yazan’s family was separated, 
Mohamed filed their family’s claims with the 
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner 
for Refugees (UNHCR). If approved, the rest of the 
family could join them by UNHCR referral to the U.S. 
Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP), first insti-
tuted by the Refugee Act of 1980. In the meantime, 
both sides of the family had to build something of 
a new life—living, working, waiting for reunion. 
Yazan calls his mother and siblings on FaceTime 
almost daily, but it’s been two years since he last 
saw them when he visited Jordan. Thirteen years 
have passed since they were separated, with no 
update on the status of their refugee claims.

As a Welcome Corps sponsor, Yazan can pro-
vide what may become a crucial means for dias-
poric communities across the U.S. to reunite with 
their loved ones. As of this year, about six hundred 
fifty-four thousand Syrians in Jordan are officially 
registered as refugees with the UNHCR, and over 
one-third of them have been separated from their 
families. This statistic still doesn’t account for the 
1.3 million displaced Syrians in Jordan who either 
haven’t registered for legal refugee status or still 
await approval. 
With a grassroots approach towards refu-
gee resettlement in the U.S., the Welcome Corps 
pushes the boundaries of a field long domi-
nated by professional resettlement agencies and 



**Title: Waiting for Welcome**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19
May 2024
Waiting for Welcome
Yazan (far left) and his siblings as children
mostly white, faith-based service organizations. 

Conventionally, these agencies sponsored fami-
lies approved by the UNHCR and referred to the 
USRAP; however, these groups had little say in 
who they sponsored. When the Welcome Corps 
first launched, it paired refugees and sponsor 
groups the same way. Nearly a year later, in 
December 2023, the Welcome Corps opened a 
means of sponsorship never before seen in the 
U.S. It allowed sponsors to identify specific ref-
ugees they wanted to resettle, so long as they 
have already been registered as a refugee or asy-
lum seeker by the UNHCR or the government of 
the country they’re currently located in. 

Through the Welcome Corps, Yazan and 
his family may finally have the chance to be 
together soon, and for good. 

Setting Up Sponsorship
T
he Biden administration Describes the 
Welcome Corps as an effort to expand the U.S.’ 
capacity to resettle refugee families and mod-
ernize current refugee resettlement programs. It 
launched the Welcome Corps amid a series of 
international crises, including the fall of Kabul 
in 2021 and the escalation of conflict between 
Ukraine and Russia in 2022. The program is also 
a response to historically low refugee admissions 
ceilings during Donald Trump’s presidency, which 
saw an 86 percent drop in U.S. refugee admissions 
over the course of his term. 

To expand and update the U.S.’ refugee 
resettlement capacity, the Biden administra-
tion turned to a resettlement model known as 
community co-sponsorship, where an official 
agency approves and trains community orga-
nizations to sponsor refugees on its behalf. 

Though an iteration of this model was pio-
neered in Canada, the administration looked 
to New Haven—where the nation’s leading 
example of the co-sponsorship model grew 
from the offices of IRIS, a nonprofit nestled in 
New Haven’s East Rock neighborhood.
 “For many, many years, there was an assump-
tion that [refugee resettlement] is a really spe-
cialized technical work that requires a lot of 
experienced case managers and it cannot be done 
by a ragtag group of volunteers,” Chris George, 
former Executive Director of IRIS, told me over 
the phone. “Well, you’re wrong.” 



20
TheNewJournal
George, who directed IRIS for eighteen years, 
saw community co-sponsorship as his most 
important project at the agency. He was spurred by 
the need to assist growing populations of displaced 
people, along with the heightened visibility of the 
Syrian refugee crisis in 2015—what the UNHCR still 
calls the largest refugee crisis in the world. George 
and other IRIS leaders then established their own 
community co-sponsorship program, pushing a 
number of public information sessions to recruit 
what would eventually grow a state-wide network 
of over fifty co-sponsorship groups. 

Historically, refugee resettlement has operated 
through a case management model, in which a case 
manager or social worker is assigned to a refugee 
family to provide assistance. This limits participa-
tion to trained professionals, often with bachelor’s 
degrees and a few years of experience in social 
work. Public involvement, at most, took the form 
of donations or lower-commitment volunteer roles 
like providing transportation for families or tutor-
ing English. But around 2015, community leaders 
across New Haven and Connecticut approached 
George, wishing to do more. 

“There was a distant memory of church or 
faith-based co-sponsorship,” George told me, 
referencing what he called an “informal network” 
of co-sponsorship from the nineteen-eighties. 
This was the original version, created to accom-
modate waves of Southeast Asian displacement 
after U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War and 
Secret War in Laos. Often, these co-sponsors 
were local church groups working in collabora-
tion with the USRAP. 

With its board, George combined IRIS’ orga-
nizational team structure with the everyday, infor-
mal volunteer force of those faith-based sponsors. 
They expanded co-sponsorship, both in capacity 
and demographic, by allowing any group of people 
to become sponsors, so long as their group was or 
became an established legal entity and had enough 
dedicated volunteers—typically upwards of twenty. 
Groups also needed proof that they could provide 
financial, cultural, and other practical assistance to 
a refugee family for at least one year.
This ragtag model had undeniable suc-
cesses. In 2016, IRIS’ first full year of community 
co-sponsorship, the agency and its co-sponsors 
welcomed 530 refugees—“more than double 
any previous year,” according to IRIS’ website. 
These numbers were considerably larger than 
Connecticut’s other two major resettlement 
agencies the same year. Hartford Catholic 
Charities, which lacks a report for the 2016 fis-
cal year, was estimated by the Archdiocese of 
Hartford to have resettled 360. The Connecticut 
Institute for Refugees and Immigrants (CIRI) 
resettled 127 (though CIRI does focus on provid-
ing its families up to five years of assistance). 

IRIS’ growth with community sponsorship is 
still going strong. The agency has gone from a 
pre-2016 annual average of two hundred resettle-
ment cases to one thousand, expanding from cases 
of refugee resettlement to cases of asylum seekers 
and some immigrants. This success soon attracted 
national attention, bringing the IRIS agency to 
the center of the Welcome Corps itself. The agen-
cy’s role in the Welcome Corps: to support and 
provide information sessions to Welcome Corps 
applicants across the country as they build their 
own scaled-down versions of the New Haven 
co-sponsorship model. 

“There is a pressure from the United States 
public, for us to open up to democratize refu-
gee resettlement,” George told me. “Peace Corps 
invited ordinary people to participate in foreign 
policy, right? This is a foreign policy program that 
operates in our own backyard, but we were not 
allowing public citizens [to participate] in a signif-
icant way. And now we are.” 

The Welcome Corps is meant to supplement—
not replace—the USRAP, where UNHCR-approved 
refugees are sponsored by a network of ten national 
volunteer agencies and smaller professional affil-
iates like IRIS. Welcome Corps sponsors work in 
small Private Sponsorship Groups (PSGs) of at least 
five U.S. citizens. While the Welcome Corps adds 
onto the U.S.’ capacity to resettle refugees, sponsor 
groups are still responsible for providing the same 
services as existing agencies: greeting families at 
the airport, finding and furnishing housing, seek-
ing employment, and serving as guides to local 
communities and American culture. 

PSGs have two options to welcome a refugee 
family. The first is Matching, the random pairing 
of a sponsor group with a refugee family. When 
the Welcome Corps first launched, this was the 
only option available in the program’s first phase. 
Then, in December 2023, the second phase of the 
Welcome Corps introduced the Naming program—
also called Sponsor a Refugee You Know—where 
PSGs could apply to sponsor a specific refugee living 
abroad. This development expanded the scope of 
who could sponsor a refugee family and who could 
be sponsored.
Yazan first stumbled upon the Welcome Corps 
website when it was still in the first phase. At this 
time, Yazan hadn’t started employment at IRIS 
and was working with an immigration lawyer in 
New Haven, looking for ways to get his family to 
the States sooner. The Welcome Corps wasn’t yet 
what he’d needed, but the idea stuck with him. 

When Yazan had opened the Phase 2 launch 
email in December, he left work early to assemble 
his own PSG. He drove straight to his uncle’s house in 
Farmington, and later that night, to a friend’s house 
in New Britain. Yazan’s father would have joined, 
Yazan told me, but he doesn’t yet have full citizen-
ship. “I told them about Welcome Corps, explained 
everything to them,” Yazan told me, “and they were 
like, ‘Yeah. We’ll do it.’” Eventually, all five of them—
Yazan, his uncle, his uncle’s wife, and two friends—
gathered to sign off the forms for their background 
checks, committing them as private sponsors.
With over sixty-five thousand approved spon-
sors in the Welcome Corps and another eleven 


21
thousand applications currently in progress, the 
desire among everyday people—and burgeon-
ing diasporic communities—to open their doors 
is clear. And as the Welcome Corps adapts IRIS’ 
co-sponsorship model for smaller volunteer groups 
and diffuses it across the nation, both supporters 
and critics wonder: will this expansion really work 
on a national scale? 

Make No Assumptions
J
ean silk lit a candle  on her windowsill and 
prayed: God, I’m gonna find that woman. 

It was February 2016, Silk’s third month in 
charge of the Jewish Community Alliance for 
Refugee Resettlement (JCARR), a role she’d taken 
on after decades of work in international educa-
tion and social action. “I’m not tired, and I’m not 
retired,” she’d later tell me. 

JCARR, a partnership of five local synagogues 
and the Jewish Federation of Greater New Haven, 
was established in December 2015 as an IRIS com-
munity co-sponsor. Only a month after its incep-
tion, JCARR welcomed its first refugee family: three 
siblings in their 20s from the Democratic Republic 
of Congo. 

Silk was looking for Marie, who was mar-
ried to the eldest brother of the family. The last to 
arrive in the U.S., Marie and their 2-year-old son 
had been sent to Indianapolis and were supposed 
to take a bus from there to New York. She’d then 
meet with her husband and a volunteer from JCARR, 
and they’d all take the Metro North back to New 
Haven together. When it was time for Marie to 
arrive at the Port Authority Bus Terminal, the vol-
unteer called Silk. Marie and her son were missing. 

Oh my god, Silk had thought. “I never asked 
if she spoke English. I never asked if she had a 
cell phone. I never asked if she was wearing a sign 
that says ‘I’m going to New Haven, send me to 
Jean Silk.’”
In New Haven, Silk spent the next five hours 
poring over bus routes, calling police officers from 
small-town stops in Pennsylvania, all the way to 
Port Authority. She thought about taking the 
late-night train to New York to find Marie herself. 
“But there were a lot of angels working that night,” 
she said. Around midnight, a Port Authority 
baggage employee called Silk’s phone, saying 
he was with Marie and her son. An officer also 
called from Port Authority, informing Silk that 
he deals with women and children—often vic-
tims of human trafficking. That officer took Marie 
and her son to Grand Central Station, where they 
boarded the train to New Haven. Accompanied by 
a “Good Samaritan” on the Metro North, Marie 
and her son finally arrived at Union Station at 2 
a.m., where Silk and Marie’s husband were wait-
ing for them. 

That night, Silk told me, she learned a crucial 
lesson about the work of refugee resettlement: 
“Make no assumptions.” Helping Marie and her 
family had been Silk’s first resettlement case, and 
she had assumed that Marie had everything she 
needed to get to New Haven—despite traveling 
with an infant in an unfamiliar country. 

In an attempt to “expect the unexpected,” 
as Silk had put it, the process of becoming an 
approved community co-sponsorship group with 
IRIS is a rigorous one. IRIS requires each volun-
teer to complete a background check, register for 
liability insurance, read a thirty-page co-sponsor 
program manual, and complete a six-hour training 
session on their new responsibilities. IRIS also rec-
ommends that co-sponsor groups raise $4,000 to 
$10,000—enough to provide three to six months of 
financial assistance, mostly with rent. 

Eight years since the Port Authority incident, 
Silk and JCARR have resettled eight families and 
are currently working with their ninth—the most 
of any community co-sponsorship group that IRIS 
has worked with. But with the initial vetting and 
preparation that JCARR had gone through, and this 
near-decade of experience, Silk has found that 
maxim—make no assumptions—to be consistently 
true. The commitment to resettling a refugee fam-
ily can easily become more than the community and 
goodwill that well-intentioned sponsors may have 
bargained for. 

“I always say this,” Silk told me, “Refugee 
resettlement is not romantic. It’s really hard work. 
Those phone calls come at any hour of the day or 
night, and you don’t always know the answer, but 
you feel like you need to come up with one.”
In a more extreme case, Silk recalls an instance 
of domestic violence within one of the fami-



**Waiting for Welcome**
**Author: Kylie Volavongsa**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22
TheNewJournal
Waiting for Welcome
handle it and hadn’t expected the difficulty, pain, 
and potential danger that could arise from this kind 
of volunteer work. Both the man and woman had 
come to her for help.
“It’s hard, when you don’t know how to help 
people,” Silk said. She remembered how her daugh-
ter, a social worker, raised this concern too: “‘Mom, 
you’re not trained. You can’t solve this problem.’”
The refugee woman eventually obtained a 
restraining order, and is now safely raising her chil-
dren. But it was after helping this family that Silk 
noticed the emotional toll this work could take on 
her. She’s since stepped back from directly working 
with refugees, now focusing more heavily on JCARR’s 
administrative affairs and organizing its volunteers. 
Silk has faith in the expansion of refugee resettle-
ment, but perhaps not for the everyday volunteer—
at least, not without sufficient support. “I would love 
to be wrong,” she said of the Welcome Corps, “but I 
believe that they’re probably naive.” 


How Much Is Enough?
W
elcome corps Groups only have to be 
accountable as sponsors for ninety days—the 
Department of State’s minimum for all resettlement 
agencies. According to the Center for Migration 
Studies, this timeline isn’t enough to assist many 
families as they integrate into what is often an 
incredibly different way of living and with little to 
their name. In Connecticut, established resettlement 
agencies and longtime community co-sponsors have 
also expressed concern over the ninety day require-
ment, and whether these voluntary groups are pre-
pared for the realities of this commitment. 
“So far, the people that have shown interest in the 
program have the means financially, but not the knowl-
edge of how to access the services needed during the 
ninety-day period of resettlement,” Marenid Carattini, 
CIRI’s Director of Refugee Services, told me. 
Most agencies provide their services for much 
longer: IRIS community co-sponsors must commit 
to assisting families for at least one year (JCARR 
helps for two to three), and CIRI has a five-year 
resettlement assistance program. Hartford Catholic 
Charities stopped accepting new refugee cases in 
2019 but was still contractually obligated to help 
families for five years. Meanwhile, Carattini also 
noted that the extra time is crucial in handling long-
term struggles, both predictable and unpredictable, 
like sudden employment, a loss of benefits, or assis-
tance with the naturalization process. 
The Welcome Corps must walk a delicate 
line: ensure its program is accessible enough 
that it can fulfill its promise of democratiz-
ing resettlement, but keep the requirements 
rigorous enough to ensure that sponsors are 
equipped to properly resettle families. In the 
process, however, this creates a barrier for a 
newer demographic of sponsors from diasporic 
communities—often the ones with the most at 
stake to become a sponsor. 
In Yazan’s group, he took on the role of 
Coordinator, a designated member responsible for 
submitting the application and being the point of 
contact between Welcome Corps representatives 
and their PSG. He also took on as many sponsorship 
requirements as he could by himself—even though 
most PSGs work through them collectively. “I guess 
I didn’t want to bother them,” he said, concerned 
about his uncle and aunt’s own busy lives. 
Yazan completed the application, which included 
a list of questions prompting him for information 
on where sponsorees may find accessible healthcare, 
language services, and other public benefits. Then, 
he took a free four-hour online course covering the 
“Sponsorship Essentials” of the Welcome Corps—
another requirement that only Coordinators are 
obligated to complete. 
He then had to raise at least $9,700, a total of 
$2,425 per family member he hoped to sponsor. This 
minimum is based on the same amount that the 
Department of State currently provides to refugee 
resettlement agencies. To prevent misappropriation 
of government funds, it must be raised by spon-
sors alone. For Yazan, finding a place to put these 
funds—and prove there were enough—was the 
most difficult requirement, taking him two weeks to 
finish. He needed a bank statement from an account 
that listed the official name of his PSG. 
“I went to three different banks,” he says. “It was 
hard for me…I spent a whole week just trying to 
figure out how I’m going to show them that I’m 
financially stable.” 
Yazan finally turned to GoFundMe at another 
IRIS staffer’s advice. Then, he needed to raise at 
least 60 percent of his required funds before his 
group could be eligible for approval. After a couple 
of months of outreach at local mosques, Yazan has 
since raised $7,920—82 percent of his minimum goal. 


In the Meantime
Y
azan’s group was approved as a certified 
Naming group three months after he had met each 
sponsorship requirement. 
“Once a group gets certified as a Naming 
Group, then a referral has been made to the U.S. 
Refugee Admissions Program,” IRIS Director of 
Sponsorship Ann O’Brien told me, “[USRAP] still 
has to go and talk to the specific individual to see if 
the refugee claim can be accepted for the program. 
So we don’t know yet how long it will take for that 
process to happen.”
All that’s left is to wait. 
I asked Yazan if he knew anything about the 
timeline ahead for his sponsorship group, or when his 
family might be approved for resettlement. “They don’t 
really tell us,” he said. “[But] I’ve asked around and they 
told me anywhere between six months and two years.” 
The Welcome Corps has been around for less 
than two years, and its Naming program for about 
half that time. This jump in U.S. refugee resettlement, 
drawn from the old guard of nineteen-eighties 
co-sponsors and a New Haven agency’s statewide 
successes, is a bold one. But things are still early, still 
uncertain. Despite these uncertainties, Yazan can at 
least have some direct hand in bringing his family 
over far sooner, perhaps, than the fourteen years that 
his immigration lawyer had estimated before apply-
ing to the Welcome Corps. “It feels weird waiting,” 
he said, but he has hope. 
Yazan dreams of taking his mother to New York 
City. “She likes crowded places,” he said, “can’t go 
wrong with New York.” 
A little after our call, he will cook for Iftar 
to break his Ramadan fast. He tells me he’s not 
sure what he’ll make yet—maybe something with 
chicken. After that, perhaps some nighttime soc-
cer. He will go to school the next day, and he will 
go to work to help IRIS with its intake of furni-
ture for other refugees’ new homes. He will return 
to his own home, and so will his father. They will 
talk about their days and dial his mother, Ghaith, 
Yaman, and Joudi. He’ll talk with them, too. 
For now, impatiently, Yazan waits. ∎
		
Kylie Volavongsa is a junior in 
Silliman College and former Managing 
Editor of The New Journal.



**Snapshot**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 24**

24
May 2024          TheNewJournal
layout design by Chris de Santis
Snapshot
Gone Fishing
Connecticut fishermen become reluctant fighters to protect their waters 
against commercial fisheries. 



**Title: Gone Fishing**
**Author: Samantha Liu**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ray Potkay knows how to trick a fish. 
“It’s all about patience,” he tells 
me, reeling in the line with a learned 
slowness. He teaches me to pull up twice: 
once to yank the lure forward, again to 
pull it sideways, so that the striped bass 
thinks the fake fish is injured. 

Potkay’s not a big talker. What he 
lacks in verbosity he compensates for 
in spunk: he has pierced ears, silver 
glasses, and a trim beard. He smokes 
a cigar while he fishes. He won’t call 
himself the best, but he does call him-
self “The Fabulous Fisherman” on 
Facebook, where he’s achieved micro-
celebrity status within Connecticut 
fishing circles. 

“Don’t write about where we are, or 
else it’ll get blown up by everybody,” 
he tells me with dead seriousness. I’m 
trudging behind his rubber-booted 
footsteps down a winding forest path. In 
the parking lot behind us are his SUV, 
my handbag, and an array of crushed 
bottles. And before us, the Housatonic 
River unfurls into crystalline silver. 

There’s something Whitmanesque 
about fishing, and it’s more than 
the stars and stripes emblazoned on 
Potkay’s pliers as he retwists the hook 
on his lure. Out on the water, it’s 
every man for himself. It’s tough. It’s 
American. It’s disproportionately dom-
inated by middle-aged white guys post-
ing pictures of themselves dangling 
giant mackerels on Facebook. 

“It’s the greatest sport in the world,” 
says Pete DeGregorio, owner of Dee’s 
Bait & Tackle, a beloved New Haven 
fixture since 1954. 

Potkay and DeGregorio are two 
among a dozen-something local fish-
ermen whom I talked to over the past 
month. An almost-fanatical commu-
nity, for decades, these individuals 
have called Connecticut’s nearly six 
thousand miles of shoreline, rivers, 
and streams home. They go fishing 
before dawn and past midnight; they 
chase wraithlike herring and savage 
bluefish; they spend months finding 
the best places to fish, and the rest of 
their lives keeping them secret from 
other fishermen.

“I mean,  it’s just a euphoric time,” 
says Randy Boyer, a DJ-turned-fisherman 
who runs his own lure-making business. 
“When you’re fishing, the world kind of 
melts away.” 

Like many fishermen, Boyer learned 
angling—fishing with a rod and line—
from his parents growing up. But today, 
a tangle of bureaucracy, legislation, 
and commercialization threatens the 
very spirit of recreational fishing and 
the local communities who sustain it. 

Massive Atlantic fisheries encroach on 
fishermen’s catches, driving once-abun-
dant fish species to historic lows in 
Connecticut’s rivers. Angling—which 
has attracted intrepid fishermen to New 
England’s shores since the sixteen hun-
dreds—now faces an uncertain future. 

And the latest generation of anglers 
must reckon with what’s worth fighting 
for and what legacy is worth preserving.


Growing up, Kevin Job was the “fish 
kid.” When he was six, he saw a fly 
fisher returning from the sea-scuffed 
shore, holding a fat striper in his hands. 
This fly fisher taught Job the art of 
striped bass fishing: to throw the lure 
into a school of herring, to watch the 
herring scatter and the bass lunge for 
the lure instead. 

Hook, line, and sinker, Job fell for 
fishing. With almost religious fervor, he 
searched for the best herring spots, the 
best time of day to fish them, and the 
best season for fishing. He attended the 
University of Connecticut to study fish-
eries—there, he cut class and skipped 
sleep to fish more. Spring became his 
“happy time,” when runs and runs of sil-
very herring splashed through the rivers. 

“People would go on vacations with 
their family, and all I did was fish,” Job 
tells me, stretching out the all like taffy. 

Twenty years later, sporting sunglasses, 
blue flannel, and a slight surfer’s drawl, 
the 34-year-old Job works as a fisher-
ies biologist for the CT Department of 
Energy and Environmental Protection 
(DEEP). He’s eased better into the fish-
kid persona.

We’re standing atop a seven-
teen-foot dam, talking over the roar 
of a waterfall. Here, a fishway guides 
newly spawned river herring—ale-
wives in the fall, and blueback herring 
months later—from the quietude of 
the Branford Supply Pond into the 
Atlantic. Come fall, adult herring will 
migrate back in droves to the pond 
to spawn again. They serve as prey 
for striped bass, the “king of all fish,” 
according to DeGregorio, which are 
coveted all across the Atlantic. 

But today, the fishway sits empty. 
In the past ten years, the dense herring 
runs of Job’s childhood have all but dis-
appeared. Job estimates that there were 
ten thousand herring in this very fish-
way in 2013. So far, this year, the dam’s 
fish-counter has recorded twenty-three. 

“This is literally my job to look for 
these [fish]. I go out at night, and I 
struggle to find them,” Job says. “It sucks. 
Like it’s really, really frustrating.”

Over the past four decades, blueback 
herring populations in the Connecticut 
River have decreased from six hundred 
twenty-three thousand to just over two 
thousand. Once-fanatical fishermen are 
reckoning with the disappearance of their 
favorite species. For Riefe Tietjen—a 
self-proclaimed “one-trick pony,” who 
spent thirty years perfecting the art 
of hunting infamously vicious blue-
fish—this meant finding new species to 
chase when bluefish “were just no longer 
around,” ten years ago. 

61-year-old Dave LaFrance also 
recalls catching the bluefish which had 
swarmed the waters of Lighthouse 
Point since he was a 14-year-old boy. 
“Then three years ago, they vanished,” 
LaFrance told me.

He’s not the only one missing their 
favorite catch. As Job and I talk, an 
osprey dives down from the tree, then 
swerves up, talons empty. 

“In theory, he should have a nice sil-
ver fish in his talons,” Job says, craning 
his neck to watch the bird dip back into 
the horizon. If he’s lucky, Job explains, 
he might resurface with a pre-hatched 
trout placed in the pond by the state. But 
there’s no herring on the menu today. 

The heyday of Connecticut’s fish-
ing was in the nineteen-seventies and 
eighties, I’m told again and again, when 
anglers chased fish freely and plentily. 
Now, the most dedicated fishermen 
on the shoreline are getting older. The 
generational gap haunts younger people 
growing up on the water, many of whom 
have never seen a migration of hundreds 
of herring, or know it existed at all. Job 
acknowledges his own 34-year-old age as 
a bit of an anomaly. 

“How can you protect something if 
you don’t know it exists?” Job asked. 


Since New England anglers first 
sounded the alarm on herring pop-
ulations in the nineteen-nineties, the 
state has invested tens of millions of 
dollars into environmental cleanup 
and fishways connecting the river her-
ring to freshwater sanctuaries. A com-
plete ban on river herring fishing was 
instituted in 2002. Three years ago, the 
state even sponsored DEEP, where Job 
works, to place nine thousand pre-
spawned fish into the Shetucket River 
in Eastern Connecticut. 

But each time, the outcome is the 
same. Nine thousand fish come in to 
spawn. Nine thousand fish swim out to 
the ocean. And then the fish never return. 

The culprit, lying just a couple miles 
away from shore, seems obvious to 
most private anglers. Enormously obvi-
ous. Massive commercial boats, tow-
ing miles-long nets along the Atlantic 
seafloor, snag river herring as bycatch—
unintentionally 
caught 
wildlife—in 
their operations. Even though they tar-
get Atlantic herring and mackerel, any 
fish ensnared by their nets can be killed 
and sold for profit. Other times, when 
they’re over the poundage limit, they’ll 
toss smaller dead fish by the hundreds 
back into the ocean. In a four-year 
period, these trawls have caught an esti-
mated 6.6 million alewives as bycatch in 
Southern New England. 

“For every five thousand pounds 
of butterfish they caught, they swept 
over ten thousand pounds of bycatch,” 
DeGregorio says, shaking his head. “The 
slaughter is crazy.”

Eighteen years ago, DeGregorio 
inherited Dee’s Bait & Tackle’s brick-
and-mortar storefront and loyal clien-
tele from his father. A self-proclaimed 
family man and U.S. history buff, 
DeGregorio has been running this store 
like a relic of Melville’s America. He 
doesn’t use email or voicemail. He keeps 
a battered box of IOUs from customers to 
whom he’s lent supplies or money. Early 
customers get his attention by banging 
on the outside window (he responds by 
hollering back that they open at noon). 

As one customer told me, “It doesn’t get 
more grassroots than Dee’s.” 

DeGregorio tells me the pilgrims 
came to America in response to two 
injustices: religious persecution, and that 
only the rich could fish the king’s waters. 

While commercial fisheries, thanks 
to major lobbying clout, get off the 
hook with overfishing and bycatch, rec-
reational fishing licenses are getting 
more expensive. Anglers need to pur-
chase saltwater licenses, in addition to 
freshwater licenses, in addition to trout 
management stamps, in addition to 
government-issued rulebooks which lay 
out all of this. One of these rulebooks 
sits bound on DeGregorio’s counter at 
Dee’s Bait & Tackle, which he gestures 
to frequently and impatiently through-
out our conversation. Over fifty pages of 
printed graphs, tables, and legends, the 
book describes the state’s response to 
declines in herring and striper popula-
tions, which includes new regulations on 
the size, place, time, number, and species 
recreational fishermen can catch. 

Everyone I talked to had something 
to say about the extensive rule changes. 
They deter new families from picking up 
fishing, while the old guard is exhausted. 
Some are even deserting—one man I 
talked to cited fishing as one among 
a variety of reasons he was moving to 
Florida. Statewide, recreational fishing 
participation has declined by over fifty 
percent in the past three decades, from 
one hundred and fifty thousand people 
in 1990 to only one hundred thousand 
in 2021, according to the Census Bureau. 

What’s lost is not just people who fish: 
it’s the collective memories—taking their 
kids down to the coast, witnessing an 
ecosystem run vibrant with wildlife, shar-
ing fresh catch and conversation with 
neighbors over dinner. 

“I lost my culture,” Job said. “I mean, 
it’s gone. You have to work really hard 
to recreate what I used to be able to do 
when I was ten.”


Job doesn’t think the problems will 
go away until regulations around com-
mercial fishing change. But Toby Lapinski, 
lifelong angler and editor-in-chief of the 
national magazine Fishing Tackle Retailer, 



**Gone Fishing**
**Author: Samantha Liu**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
doesn’t think regulations will change until 
recreational fishermen go out and protest. 
Lapinski recalled two January 2024 
hearings by the Atlantic States Marine 
Fisheries Commission, where he was 
one of two appointed representatives 
for recreational fishermen. At the hear-
ings, they discussed striped bass quotas 
after a severe population decline in the 
species. Of over one hundred thousand 
private anglers residing in Connecticut, 
just over fifty submitted written com-
ments. Forty-one came to the in-per-
son hearings; only nine of them were 
recreational fishermen. 

Many of the fishermen I talked to 
were fast to complain about overregu-
lation, but few had the time or desire 
to fight it. 

On one visit to Dee’s, I met a 
70-something-year-old angler in a grey 
tracksuit. I asked him if he was inter-
ested in talking about issues in fishing.
“Nah, not really,” he said. The drive 
to New Haven was too far. I told him 
I could call him over the phone if he 
didn’t want to come down.
“Nah,” he said again. “Most of the 
time, if I’m at home, I’m fishing.” 
That was hard to argue with.
“I’ve never been a fan of the ‘throw 
up your hands and walk away; it is what 
it is,’” Lapinski said. “But the private 
anglers definitely fall that way.” 
DeGregorio recalled unsuccessful 
attempts from years ago to rally anglers 
statewide to attend town meetings—
after weeks of planning, only four peo-
ple showed up. Today, DeGregorio is 
tired. He tells me he’s been meaning to 
write to the commissioner expressing 
his grievances, but the store is always 
overrun with customers, and he hates 
using email.

For the fishermen on Connecticut’s 
shores today, their passions lie out on 
the water, not inside committee rooms. 
Meanwhile, the new generation is too 
young to remember the heritage they 
have lost. 

“You have to remember something 
to appreciate it,” Job said. “I’m trying to 
put things out there, to get volunteers 
involved again, to try and have them 
remember these fish exist.” 
Job is hopeful about Amendment 
10 of the Atlantic Herring Fishery 
Management Plan, an upcoming nego-
tiation on catch caps and limits on 
commercial fisheries. He’s relying on 
anglers to use their voices, but has also 
turned to birders, photographers, ecol-
ogists, long-time residents, and anyone 
who has a story from the water. 

“It’s our inherent nature, as hunt-
er-gatherers,” DeGregorio said. “Fishing 
is tradition. It’s a primordial instinct.”
Waist-deep in water, Potkay casts 
out his line. It whips over the river 
with a magnificent swoosh. Lure bag 
slung over one shoulder, orange fish-
hooker clipped to his chest, rod extended 
and arms unmoving, he stands still like a 
lighthouse under the squinting sun. 
Out here, I can understand why 
Boyer believes in karma. Fishing is man 
versus nature: Potkay says he’s been 
dragged down by the tide several times 
now, and someone else told me about 
their near-death ice-fishing experience. 
The only refuge these fishermen have is 
in each other. 

“If I get a hook stuck in my fin-
ger, you’d have to help me pull it out,” 
Potkay warns me.
He hasn’t caught any fish today. Maybe 
there are fewer stripers in the river. Maybe 
it’s too windy. Potkay isn’t concerned about 
the former. For now, there are still fish in 
the ocean, and as long as they are there, 
I’m realizing, there are also avid surfcasters 
smart enough to catch them. 

And still, Potkay fights to preserve 
fishing in his own way. I watch him 
wave for a younger fisherman to join 
him. The two of them stand shoul-
der-to-shoulder in the water, wind 
against their backs, throwing their reels 
toward the horizon together. 

By the time we reach the parking lot, 
Potkay is noticeably more relaxed and 
talkative. He buys me a coffee. When my 
ride home is delayed, without hesitation, 
he starts clearing out the backseat of his 
car, where I sit for the next twenty min-
utes sandwiched between crates of fishing 
equipment on the way back to New Haven.
It’s strange to watch him, an 
ordinary person behind the wheel, 
without his enormous rubber boots, 
camouflage waders, and larger-than-
life mythos. But if fishing is a kind of 
heritage, this, too, is it—to offer lifts 
to college students, to stand shoul-
der-to-shoulder bearing the same water. 

After Job takes off in his pickup 
truck, carting a green oxygen tank 
behind him, to continue his fish-search-
ing, I meet a lone fisherman on the 
bridge. His hook nose is flushed red 
with cold, glasses fogged up. His name 
is Peter Graves. He lives across the river. 
He caught his first pickerel in 1952. He 
has a PhD in microbiology and spent 
decades in virus and disease research. 
Maybe this makes sense because he 
thinks fishing is an exercise in intellect. 
“You gotta fool a fish, right?” he tells 
me. “You gotta be as smart as they are!”  
When he tells me this, he pats 
me on the shoulder and lets out a 
laugh like a gently-rusted door hinge. 
Immediately, I decide I like him. We 
exchange names, then fish stories, then 
emails, and a promise to stay in touch.  
I walk back to the dam and stand 
over the pooling water. I stare hard 
at how it passes through the fishway: 
turbulent on top, calm underneath. I 
imagine everything Graves and Job 
have told me, picturing runs of ale-
wives thick like ribbons, flashing sil-
ver, and cerulean beneath my feet. In a 
moment so sharp I almost believe it, I 
see something twist beneath the water. 
Momentarily, it flashes, before it ripples 
into either memory or possibility. ∎
Samantha Liu is a sophomore 
	in Grace Hopper College and 
Managing Editor of The New Journal.


**Critical Writing Up the Land**
**Author: Tashroom Ahsan**
**Page number(s): 30**

layout design by Chris de Santis
“Yale 
University 
acknowledges 
that 
indigenous peoples and nations, includ-
ing Mohegan, Mashantucket Pequot, 
Eastern Pequot, Schaghticoke, Golden 
Hill Paugussett, Niantic, and the 
Quinnipiac and other Algonquian speak-
ing peoples, have stewarded through 
generations the lands and waterways 
of what is now the state of Connecticut. 
We honor and respect the enduring rela-
tionship that exists between these peoples 
and nations and this land.”

The first time she heard Yale’s land 
acknowledgment, Nyché Andrew 
’25, a Yup’ik and Inupiaq student from 
Alaska, felt confused. She was attend-
ing an online first-year orientation 
meeting about how Yale students could 
be respectful residents of New Haven. 
Nyché felt the statement lacked any 
sort of urgency and wondered if other 
students were even paying attention. 
As she heard the acknowledgment read 
again at various Yale events, her con-
fusion sharpened to frustration. “The 
syntax, by using ‘has stewarded,’ refuses 
to be more present about Native peo-
ples’ relation to land today,’’ she tells me. 
“By ignoring Yale’s active harm against 
Native people, [the statement] goes 
into erasure.”

Yale adopted their current land 
acknowledgment in October 2019. Out 
of the three Indigenous professors and 
six Indigenous students I talked to, 
none of them knew how or why the 
statement was drafted. None of the six 
University administrators, each a part 
of the secretary office that issued the 
statement, returned my emails asking 
for more information. On the website 
of the Office of the Secretary and Vice 
President for Student Life, where the 
statement is published, there is no spe-
cific policy about where it ought to be 
recited; the website simply notes that 
the statement is “approved university 
language” that may be used at events. 
While several students and pro-
fessors I spoke with pointed to the 
importance of land acknowledgments 
as a practice, many feel that Yale’s cur-
rent statement falls short of meaning-
ful action. For Nyché, Yale’s statement 
raises more questions than it answers. 
How have these people stewarded the 
land? Do they still? And how does Yale 
“honor and respect” them, apart from 
sometimes reading their names aloud? 

II. 
I drive past the Quinnipiac River, 
past Sachem’s Head, past North 
Guilford, 
past Old 
Saybrook—all 
letters on a green sign beside the 
I-95 tarmac—and find myself at the 
Mashantucket Pequot Museum and 
Research Center. 

Each of these names means some-
thing else to Connor Smith.
Smith’s wife and stepchildren 
are Mashantucket Pequot, and he 
spends his days as an educator work-
ing under the huge pine and oak trees 
of the Mashantucket Pequot Museum. 
Raised in Branford and New Haven, 
Smith grew up on soil cared for by the 
Quinnipiac. I knew the Quinnipiac 
people lived in Southern Connecticut 
before British colonists arrived in New 
Haven—Yale’s current land acknowl-
edgment states as much. But Smith 
tells me that “much of what people 



**Title: Writing Up the Land**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
May 2024          TheNewJournal
know about the Quinnipiac is misunderstood.” He grins, pulls up a map of New 
Haven on his phone, and proceeds to tell 
me some history.
The Quinnipiac land spanned much 
of what we now know as the New 
Haven area; interrelated bands inhab-
ited neighboring villages in what is now 
East Haven, Branford, and the northern 
part of New Haven. After the British 
had established themselves as the politi-
cally dominant force in the area with the 
Treaty of Hartford,  Theophilus Eaton 
and John Davenport—the English 
founders of New Haven—created the 
Momauguin Treaty. The 1638 Treaty 
ascribed total agency to the Quinnipiac 
principal sachem, Momauguin, to sell 
the land without consulting the sachems 
of other Native bands. The Quinnipiac 
were then pushed onto a 1,200-acre par-
cel, the only land where they could plant, 
hunt, or build without English permis-
sion—one of the first forms of a reserva-
tion in the United States.
Over time, colonists encroached 
upon the reservations as Quinnipiac 
people sold tracts and rights to pay for 
exorbitant petty crime fines, leading to 
recurrent conflicts over the boundar-
ies of the reservation by the late seven-teenth century. In 1731, nearly all of the 
Quinnipiac reservation had been bought 
by colonists, and most of the Quinnipiac 
emigrated to nearby Connecticut towns, 
far from the river they called home. 
Many Quinnipiac descendents, looking 
to preserve their sense of independence, 
joined the Brothertown movement later 
in the eighteenth century. They went 
west, converting to Christianity and 
settling in Wisconsin. Others joined 
different nearby tribes, including the 
Pequot. The Quinnipiac no longer exist 
as a recognized community though their 
descendants live on.
On his phone, Smith zooms in on 
Cross Campus, right by Harkness Hall. 
“If you’re talking about where Yale is, 
in the New Haven region, these were 
traditionally hunting grounds.” New 
Haven served as a shared land for the 
Quinnipiac bands, a living space for 
them to listen to the natural world.
Nakai Northup, the head educator 
at the museum and a member of the 
Mashantucket Pequot and Narragansett 
tribes, sustains his connection to the 
land through far more than twenty sec-
onds of a land acknowledgment. “The 
land is my therapist,” he says, patting 
the dirt beneath us. He refers to it as his 
“close friend,” a being that he continually 
spends time with, one that frustrates him, 
one that partners with him through life. 
“We’ve been here for two thou-
sand-plus years, so that’s a long time to 
form a relationship,” Northup says. He 
can identify the plants around us by their 
Algonquian name. When he looks out, 
he sees details that I cannot. And that 
gaze was forged through time—his and 
the generations before him. He tells me 
about hunting for an animal, an act that 
Connecticut land sustained for thousands 
of years. “You can learn how [an animal] 
built a relationship with the land and the 
things that it relies on within the land and 
how the land relies on it for other things. 
And then you throw yourself in that 
mix. I guess that puts me in that cycle as 
well.” The kinship between the earth and 
Northup animates his stories. 
Driving back, I turn on my GPS and 
return toward New Haven. The maps, 
trees, and signs grow richer than on my 
drive there. The Quinnipiac River was 
where they found their food. Sachem’s 
Head came from an old tale about a tribal 
conflict. And Saybrook was where the 
Pequot War culminated. Behind each of 
these names dwells a richness of the land, 
easy to overlook when driving, but clearer 
to see after talking with Northup and 
Smith.
III. 
Back at Yale, I walk into the 
Native American Culture Center 
(NACC) and am greeted by the house 
staff, peer liaisons, and NACC Director 
and Assistant Dean of Yale College 
Matthew Makomenaw, all seated at 
a long table by the entrance. Bright 
colors 
surround 
them—construc-
tion paper, markers, candy wrappers, 
bowls, wall art. Each person is writ-
ing welcome letters to recently admit-
ted Indigenous students. Their laughs 
and excitement flow into pages of 
kind words. 
“First and foremost, we’re a stu-
dent center, a place for Indigenous 
students to center themselves and 
find resources,” says Makomenaw, one 
of the Grand Traverse Bay Band of 
Ottawa and Chippewa people. “Even 
though we don’t all come from the 
same tribal nation or culture, we build 
a place where people are comfortable, 
and they have friendships, and they 
have mentorship, and they have a 
space that they can center themselves.” 
Later that day, I speak with 
Naima Blanco-Norberg ’25, a Mexica 
Arts Liaison, sitting on a couch in 
the library, cradled by books, maps, 
and portraits of Henry Roe Cloud, 
the first recognized Indigenous Yale 
graduate. She nods to a large map 
on the wall which shows the lay-
out of different nations in North 
America. “It’s little things like that,” 
she tells me, “the books and the art 
which make a tie to indigeneity cen-
tered in this space, even though it’s 
a community of so many different 
communities.” As we leave, I pass by 
an activities room. To the left, a long 
table stands, with thousands of beads 
in boxes beside. “We get funding for 
them every year, and it’s a good activ-
ity since it’s something so many of us 
share,” says Megan Blackwell ’25, a 
Chickasaw Peer Liaison. With beads, 
pow-wows, and conferences spanning 
back to the nineteen-eighties, the 
Indigenous community at Yale has 
forged their own traditions. 
Yale’s current land acknowledg-
ment makes a small gesture towards 
the existence of these living commu-
nities but fails to do more than name 
them. “A land acknowledgment isn’t 
just something you say,” Megan tells 
me. “It has to be something you com-
mit to. You have to commit to teaching 
these histories.”
What would it mean for the 
words in Yale’s land acknowledg-
ment to signify anything more than 
just names? Discomfort is an essen-
tial part of a land acknowledgment, 
Tarren Andrews, assistant professor 
of Ethnicity, Race, and Migration, 
says. “Commitments allow for insti-
tutional land acknowledgments to go 
beyond their affective potential,” she 
tells me. “Acknowledgments are a way 
to make institutions that care a lot 
about performance put money behind 
the performance.” An unsettling land 
acknowledgment can sow the seeds of 
discomfort to spur institutional action. 
To Northup and Andrews, a land 
acknowledgment should spawn an 
institutional relationship grounded in 
mutual care. Northup told me about 
other institutions, like the University of 
Connecticut, where administrators vis-
ited the Mashantucket Pequot museum 
and spoke with staff while drafting their 
land acknowledgement. Administrators 
and 
museum 
staff 
shared 
meals. 
Beyond writing their statement in dia-
logue with Indigenous educators, the 
University of Connecticut commit-
ted to hiring Indigenous faculty and 
partnered with the museum to create 
educational programs that centered 
Indigenous relationships to land.
Last year, Nyché presented a detailed 
proposal to the Yale College Council 
to support the creation of a Native and 
Indigenous Studies major, along with the 
development of more Indigenous studies 
courses and hiring of more Indigenous 
faculty. Megan and Andrews have each 
articulated the importance of all Yale 
College students learning the Indigenous 
history of this land, something embed-
ded in the other land acknowledgments 
like those of the University of Colorado 
Boulder and Cornell University, which 
provide detailed educational resources 
about local Indigenous groups.


**Title: This Spring**
**Author: Sophie Lamb**
**Page number(s): 33**

There was a time when I knew everything. 
I knew the migration patterns of sperm whales, why we carve into the skin of beech 
trees, and how to write sentences that crescendo. I knew I loved Spring. I knew when the 
cherry blossoms stuck to the sidewalks and the dirt of my mom’s herb garden stunk of 
mildew, carts of Italian ice would come to the street corners and days would stretch and 
glimmer like the spider web across my bedroom window. 
The world fell into place at my fingertips. And I, with the ferocious determination of 
a 6-year-old, could tug at it, weave it, mold it till my palms were caked with its clay. 
Is it possible to know nothing?
These days, I wander. I run circles around this new city, stopping at every tree to revel 
in the shock of its blossoms. I trip over words. I can’t remember why I ever wanted to 
write, or study trees, can’t recall where I am from, or why I’m here now, hurdling through 
hot Spring days.
In this new April sun, my hands are fat and pink. 



**Title: Writing Up the Land**
**Author: Tashroom Ahsan**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Several departments of Yale have 
created their own land acknowledg-
ments or have begun their own relation-
ships with Indigenous communities. The 
School of Architecture presents a map 
of Indigenous nations and recognizes 
Yale’s harm, albeit passively and in the 
past, by noting that Yale has “benefit-
ted from lands gained through fulfilled 
and unfulfilled articles of agreement 
with Indigenous nations,” and commits 
to “imagine endless possibilities for 
architectures of reconciliation, reciproc-
ity and transformation.” Northup told 
me that the students from the School 
of the Environment have visited the 
Mashantucket Pequot Museum, seeking 
to learn about Indigenous relationships 
with natural resources. To Northup and 
Andrews, these are the kinds of actions 
that a good land acknowledgment 
should spark.


Last year, Nyché, along with oth-
ers in the NACC, wrote a new land 
acknowledgment. The first paragraph of 
the statement reads as follows: 
Yale University is located on the 
lands of the Mohegan, Mashantucket 
Pequot, Eastern Pequot, Schaghticoke, 
Golden Hill Paugussett, Niantic, and the 
Quinnipiac and other Algonquian peoples 
and nations, who steward the lands and 
waterways through generations and time 
immemorial. We acknowledge the strenu-
ous history of land dispossession that Yale 
benefits from and the enduring relation-
ship between these peoples, nations, and 
land from this history. We call upon all 
to be aware of the Indigenous peoples, 
cultures, and histories of the land you 
occupy by learning about the efforts of 
Indigenous people to reclaim sovereignty 
and stewardship of their lands and com-
munities. These original stewards are the 
past, present and future caretakers of the 
land and we want to honor them.


The statement asks for a new insti-
tutional and personal tradition. These 
words float around in the communities 
closest to the NACC, but Yale adminis-
tration has yet to acknowledge it. ∎
	

Tashroom Ahsan is a sophomore 
in Davenport College and a Design 
Editor of The New Journal.
Cross Campus in March.



**Title: I Love Line Cooks**
**Author: Chesed Chap**
**Page number(s): 36**

I
f I had stayed at Alex’s house for 
longer than three hours, I would have 
married him. He had a pierced ear and 
a pierced nose and a shitty tattoo of a 
goat on his chest. He studied geography. 
He had a passion for imported foods. 
He loved the New Orleans episode of 
“Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown” as 
ferociously as I did. He was, of course, a 
line cook. 


Line cooks and I have always been 
wildly fond of each other. Never chefs. 
Chefs aspire to lead. Line cooks aspire to 
be led, satiated by the thrill of smoking 
American Spirits on break (after ripping 
off the filters) and working at divey brew-
ery/grills called Copper Brothel Brewery 
or Culinary Dropout (real names). 


Anthony Bourdain is their god, even if 
they have no idea that he wrote books 
before hosting a TV show. Line cooks 
understand that they occupy the bottom 
of the kitchen hierarchy: a blessing in my 
eyes, because it means they lack a pseu-
do-macho attitude. They are sensitive to 
love and to finding a place of belonging, 
which they find in their kitchens and in 
their walk-in freezers, among their stock 
pots and meat cleavers, with sous-chefs 
breathing hot down their necks. The 
world tells them they’re in a dead-end job, 
but they’re proud to be there. Their mis-
guided optimism rubs off on me. 


My first line cook was Esteban. We 
were sophomores in high school. He was 
proud to sling chicken tenders in the 
fryer of a cowboy-themed restaurant, but 
wasn’t cognizant of food for its artistry or 
its cultural semiotics. He’d never eaten 
bratwurst and never heard of Oktoberfest, 
a celebration oddly important to my 
Lithuanian-Mexican family. He needed 
to be enlightened—he came over after 
school one day to lose his bratwurst vir-
ginity. We ate the brats quietly while 
avoiding eye contact. Esteban didn’t 
want mustard or sauerkraut on his, just 
ketchup. The following spring, our teen-
age romance fizzled when he refused to 
prompose to me because he had a shift 
scheduled on prom night. 


I graduated high school and went 
on a date with James, who I met on 
Tinder. James was a brief vice. “You’re 
overdressed,” was the first thing he said 
to me as I arrived for dinner. (We split 
some new-wave bruschetta with goat 
cheese and pepper jam and slobbered on 
chicken and steak skewers. He paid, but 
not without declaring “I want head.”) He 
hated his dad and high school. He loved 
“American Psycho,” but not as much as 
“Ratatouille.” He loved being a line cook 
at a nursing home. He was equal parts 
charming and alarming. I should have 
said no when he asked to drive me home, 
but his tender bravado was a siren song—
where else would I have found a shrimpy 
boy in a fuzzy purple sweater who so 
proudly told me he had a Latina fetish? I 
got in his car. I had to hear all of his hap-
hazard teenage cook monologue vomit. 


Instead of driving me home, he 
cruised aimlessly down Miracle Mile, a 
street known for its abundance of pros-
titutes, and awkwardly attempted to 
hold my hand. Eventually he stopped 
at a McDonald’s so I could pee. When 
I returned to his car from the bathroom 
he handed me an oblong black foam 
sleeve and muttered something about 
how its contents would make me “feel 
safer.” I unsheathed a machete. I kept the 
machete under my seat as he drove me 
home. Was he planning to kill me and 
then decided against it? I wasn’t sure. I 
kissed him anyway.


College was my rehab. I was sur-
rounded by men primed for Congress 
and Goldman Sachs, not Peter Luger 
Steak House. But then I turned twenty, 
returned home to Arizona for the sum-
mer, and the trifecta was complete—I 
met Alex. Alex cemented my affection 
for the unruly, the cast iron, the line cook. 
We spent (probably even less than) three 
hours together. When I stepped in from 
his porch, he told me that he’d actually 
been to New Haven before (and had the 
pizza). He dumped his laundry basket 
on the floor of his bathroom and franti-
cally pawed through the carnage for his 
Frank Pepe’s tee shirt. He tossed it to me, 
and while shoving socks and jeans back 
in the basket, warned me that it proba-
bly smelled gross and sweaty because he 
wore it to work that day—but then he 
glanced up to where, upon toss, I had 
already instinctively shoved my nose 
between the screen printed cotton folds. 
That night it was revealed that he too 
was a child of divorce, and grew up in the 
same town that hosted the Target parking 
lot my parents used as a weekend custody 
exchange spot. His bedroom was deco-
rated with ticket stubs from my favorite 
local indie movie theater, and a poster 
layout design by Jessica Sánchez



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Chesed Chap**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
37
TheNewJournal          May 2024
bread—flavors that could only be brewed 
under the chokehold of late eighties 
communism. Bourdain said the Czech 
Republic had “obviously a long way to go 
to catch up with” the culinary prowess of 
its European neighbors. I didn’t care that 
the food was usually briny in taste and 
beige in color—I wanted to tell Alex all 
about it. Only he would understand the 
geopolitical significance of pickled meat. 
I saw him everywhere in Prague: in 
cold slabs of meat (Alex was in charge of 
the charcuterie station at work), in the 
portrait of Gorbachev that was chiefly 
displayed at the end of the Museum of 
Communism (Alex owned a shot glass 
adorned with a picture of the perestroika 
prince), in a gorgeous Belarusian model 
named Alex who approached me outside 
a grisly biker bar (Alex’s name was Alex). 
I had to do something else. I took a 
FlixBus during the penultimate week-
end of my program. I spent nine hours 
searching for bratwurst in Berlin. 

There were beer gardens, flea mar-
kets, the Berlin Wall, and not a single 
bratwurst in the supposed mecca of 
with 2020 tour dates from my favorite 
band, PUP—the exact same poster that 
hung on my bedroom wall, that I bought 
at their concert in Phoenix. He had been 
there, too. (Did we not hear each other’s 
voices over the rupture of sludgy bass lines 
and grating guitars? Was there a time 
when we were both in the Target parking 
lot, contained by the respective cars of our 
single parents? Were our Arizonan brains 
ever beside each other in a pizzeria in 
Connecticut, befuddled by clam as a top-
ping? How had we not seen each other so 
many times before—how were we lucky 
enough to find each other now?)
We met, ceremoniously. Without 
reuniting, we soon left for our respective 
study abroad programs. I went to Prague, 
where I was sickened by the thought 
of him drinking tequila and dancing 
with other girls in Oaxaca. We texted 
once since we both left Arizona, when I 
pathetically said Alejandro how is Mexico 
followed by This is Chesed btw idk if this 
sent from my czech number haha. My weak 
stomach was worsened by pork knuck-
les, cheap beer, pickled sausage, sour 
bratwurst. At 11 p.m. I resigned to eating 
from a storefront plastered in a beachy 
sunset wallpaper—Sudanese street food. 
I ordered something with the German 
word for chicken in its description. It was 
a pita pocket with chili oil. It burned the 
absolute shit out of my throat. 

I had never loved a food that hurt me 
so much. 

For once, I ate something so won-
derfully antagonistic I didn’t even think 
about telling Alex. It was just me, Berlin, 
and the chili oil battering my sinuses. 
I never saw Alex again. Maybe I 
could think of him like my pita pocket—
maybe I would end up at an international 
street food fair someday, and maybe I 
would crash into my pita pocket like an 
old friend, but I warmed to the likelihood 
that I would not, that I only had that 
night on the street with tears in my eyes 
and burnt lips. There are a billion meals I 
will love. There are a billion line cooks left 
to make them. ∎
Chesed Chap is a junior in Pauli 
Murray College.
Illustration by Sarah Feng


**Title: Flash Fictions**
**Author: Tony Potchernikov**
**Page number(s): 38**

38
May 2024          TheNewJournal
Flash Fictions
Photo Essay
drawing. I think it is because blurring 
the line between fiction and reality in 
photos simultaneously began answer-
ing and asking questions I have been 
thinking about for some time: Are 
we building fictions from reality? Or 
realities from fiction?
Nevertheless, as you look through, 
consider the advice a mentor occa-
sionally tells me. “Don’t let facts get 
in the way of a good story.”
This series serves as a prelude to 
a much larger set of photos exploring 
the tension between fiction and real-
ity. But doing so with photos—which 
generally are used to showcase and 
evoke the real—creates a unique set 
of questions and challenges. The series 
lends itself to wondering: what does it 
mean to create fiction in photography? 
Because for some reason, mak-
ing fiction through photos made 
more sense to me than with words or 
By Tony Potchernikov
layout design by Chris de Santis



**Flash Fictions**
**Author:  Multiple Authors**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:


No text content is present on pages 40-42 besides the page numbers and the title "Flash Fictions".


**Title: Pearland, Texas**
**Author: Lucy Ton That**
**Page number(s): 44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
n this town, letters are scarce: 
billboards, neon signs. I only realize 
how thirsty I am when Ba asks me to 
clean out my grandfather’s cupboards 
of books. Take anything she says. 
An-y-thing. As I thumb through the 
words of a life, makeshift bookmarks 
fall from the pages. Quotidian things: 
unused tissues, grocery receipts, old 
photographs. I don’t tell Ba that her 
young photograph swims between 
the lines of an old poetry anthology. 
Instead, I kiss the individual receipts 
and bookstore invoices, making care-
ful note that in 1999, my grandfather 
left the HEB with a tub of butter pecan 
and some gardening tools to bring 
home for his wife. 

I spend time admiring the curve of 
Ba’s soft skull. She has a proud fore-
head, behind which she gathers wisps 
of hair into a knob of a ponytail. To 
the knob, she attaches a fake chignon 
of plastic hair. When she naps, her 
small head engulfed by the rectangular 
whiteness of the pillow, she leaves the 
hairpiece nearby as though it keeps 
her company. As she sleeps, I notice 
her tattooed eyebrows, ones which 
never wash off, ones which make her 
endlessly discerning. 

layout design by Jessica Sánchez

I only have words as my aid to 
describe to you this scene. What’s real, 
and there’s not much of it, is overgrown 
and dilapidated. The largest abun-
dance of color comes from the junk-
yard, where husks of cars and scraps of 
metal bloom different hues of rust on a 
thick carpet of tall grasses. The rest of 
it, the parking lots and big-box chains, 
arrived from elsewhere, I’m not sure 
where exactly, and perhaps all at once. 
Today I drove the rental car to the 
town center only to discover that it’s an 
outdoor mall. I try making my way back 
on the six-lane highway, but bearded men 
in pickup trucks honk and cuss me out 
through the driver’s side window. SUVs 
as big as spaceships float by me without 
pity. In their cabins, climate-controlled 
and behind tinted panes of glass, subur-
ban children gaze at the milieu of strip 
malls they must know only as landscape. 
There is not a tree in sight. 

Even the air feels flat. Even the sky, 
just one giant blue plane, is flat. Only 
my Ba’s head is round. As we drive, she 
notes her favorite grocery store, point-
ing with her chin the way flowers do 
towards their sun. ∎

Lucy Ton That is a sophomore in 
Branford College.




**Title: From an Orchid Nursery**
**Author: Zoya Haq**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Frizz. Everywhere. It’s the first 
thing I notice—or rather, feel—when 
I push open the slightly-jammed door to 
J&L Orchids. My hair balloons around 
my head. Such is the reality of life in a 
high-humidity greenhouse, the prime 
environment for the cultivation of the 
tropical forest-native orchidaceae family: 
the orchid flower.


Located in Easton, J&L Orchids 
is Connecticut’s only registered orchid 
nursery, according to owner Lucas 
Carreno. As I enter the shop, Carreno 
greets me with a wave.


Wandering through the shop with 
Carreno, it’s hard to believe I’m still in 
Connecticut. Floral presentations festoon 
the shop: flowers dangle from the wall, 
bloom from small rocks hung on racks, 
and line long wooden shelves. Large glass 
cases in the entry room display pots for 
sale. Past the propped-open door to the 
greenhouse itself, vines, stems, and buds 
weave together in variegated colors. 
Orchids of all species and shades 
greet me with open faces. They are 
friendly. They are familiar. I take a deep 
breath in, and the intermingling fra-
grances of soil, wood, and pollen seep 
past my skin and into my memory. 


As a child, I spent many warm week-
end mornings kneeling in dewy grass with 
my dadi—my grandma—as we hunched 
over small mounds of earth. Though we 
knew the seeds would only bud maybe 
twenty percent of the time, it didn’t mat-
ter. As we toiled away in the March sun, 
digging up unhealthy stems yellowing at 
the edges, we planted new life into her 
little patch of home. The dry Dallas heat, 
we eventually realized, was not the ideal 
climate for growing a plant native to the 
tropics, but nevertheless we tried.


My dadi didn’t like to pick favor-
ites, but I always thought that, of all the 
flowers we planted, she loved orchids the 
best. “It’s like they have little faces,” she 
would tell me. “Little expressions.” 


When my dad was a child, my 
dadi made the decision for our fam-
ily to move from Pakistan to the U.S. 
Back in Pakistan, she loved the ritual 
of gardening; as a physician, her pas-
sion for tending to life extended past 
the human body and to the open earth. 
But the roots she found here didn’t lie in 
the terrestrial soil. Instead, they spread 
through the contours and crevices of her 
new home: the Al Markaz restaurant 
on LBJ Freeway; the knitting section of 
Michael’s on Midway; the “international 
spice” rack at Kroger. 


“Orchids,” Carreno tells me, “are 
diasporic plants.” They are the sec-
ond-largest family of flowering species 
in the world. While fragile, Carreno 
adds, orchids are self-sufficient and 
hardy, deriving energy and water from 
their own roots and environment, 
requiring little outside interference.


Carreno’s roots are in physics, not 
flowers. I ask him how his CalTech 
degree brought him to this tiny 
greenhouse in the middle of semi-ru-
ral Connecticut. 


He chuckles. “Family.”


While the shop was originally 
opened in the late nineteen-sixties by 
two chemists passionate about orchid 
cultivation, Carreno’s family bought J&L 
in 2017, searching for a change from their 
urban lifestyle in Washington, D.C.


J&L, Carreno explains, is a pioneer 
in the realm of not only orchid cultiva-
tion, but also hybridization. Within the 
greenhouse, the shop’s employees breed 
orchids to maximize presentability, color, 
and bud development. They intention-
ally pollinate certain seeds with pre-
dicted visual appeal before incubating 
them in small containers, such as straw-
berry tubs, to increase humidity and 
protect them from the cold.

“It’s 
select 
breeding,” 
Carreno 
explains. “Horticulturally, it’s some-
what like line breeding, where you take 
a family line and just continue that line.” 


I left J&L with a new orchid of 
my own. It now sits on my nightstand. 
It’s beginning to bloom; its white face, 
speckled with violet, expands slowly 
towards my bed. 


“Orchids are a great starter plant,” 
Carreno reassures me. “They don’t require 
much care, but they brighten the home.” 


I look at my new orchid. It’s smil-
ing up at me. ∎
Zoya Haq is a first-year 
in Saybrook College.



**Title: The New Journal Mission Statement and Publication Information**
**Author:  The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 47**

The New Journal was founded in 1967, under the following mission statement: “This university has once again reached that stage in 
history when people are talking about the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its own day was 
presumably considered new. Wishing to share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for our publication. 
Besides, things seemed slow around here.”

Today, The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. One thousand copies of each 
issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. The New Journal is printed by TCI 
Press, Seekonk, Massachusetts; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New 
Haven. Office Address: P.O. Box 3311, New Haven, CT 06515.

While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its con-
tents. All contents Copyright ©2024 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction 
either in whole or in part without written permission of the editors in chief is prohibited. Recycle Icon 
from Flaticon.com.


**Title: Crossword Puzzle**

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS (MARCH) PUZZLE
PLAY MORE TNJ 
CROSSWORDS ON 
OUR WEBSITE!
P
L
E
A
S
 
R
C
Y
 
T
H
I
 
M
G
Z
N

ACROSS

	1	 Wall-unit cooler
	 4	 Shhhhh dont’t tell!
	 10	 What flocks together
	 15	 “Honk...mi mi mi mi mi”
	 16	                  and behold!
	 17	 A place where grain is 
kept
	 18	 Punctuates your 
student email
	 19	 Separate
	 22	 University of Norfolk, 
Virginia
	 23	 Stinging plant that 
makes for good tea
	 25	 White cow of Greek 
Mythology
	 26	 Lennon’s former flame
	 27	 Kids draw them like 
broccoli
	 28	 SZA’s most recent 
album
	 30	 Email response abbr.
	 31	 To 
 or not to 
?	
	 33	 An insecticide banned 
in 1972 by the EPA
	 35	 An exterminator’s rival
	 37	 When one door closes, 
another 
	 39	
lang syne
	 41	 Also known as a wild 
boar
	 42	
 that hurt! 
	 43	
and outs
	 44	 Hit song of girl group 
NewJeans
	 47	 The Carolina further 
from the Equator
	 48	 If “slime” weren’t  so 
trendy they would’ve 
called it
	 49	 Probiotic Japanese 
drink
	 54	 The Yale “and’s” evil 
twin
	 56	 “I suppose there are 
other fish in the 
.”
	 58	 Icy artic dwelling
	 59	 A twinkling in the eye
	 60	 The “I” in “TFTI”
	 64	 From which Britain 
exited in 2020, for 
short
	 65	 A bad boy’s 
Christmas present
	 67	 Instead of
	 68	 Chicken 
 Masala
	 70	
tones, the 
Sacremento-based 
metal band
	 71	 Catch some!

DOWN

	1	 What honor-roll 
hopefuls avoid being
	2	 The 2012 dystopian 
novel featuring a cyborg 
Grimms’ fairytale. 
	 3	 Native people of New 
Zealand
	 4	 Homophone of 56A
	5	 American 
videogame company 
headquartered in 
Redwood City, CA
	 6	 Connecticut,  if there 
were two
	7	 Nose jobs, for short
	 8	 Slippery swimmers
	 9	 Freshwater catches
	 11	 Network devices
	 12	 Medical practitioner, 	
for short
	 13	 Navy special ops
	 14	 The Sunshine State, for 
	 20	 Where they play: “The 
FitnessGram Pacer Test 
is a multistage aerobic 
capacity test”
	 21	 Spinning toy
	 24	 For when you need a 
gnawing
	 29	 Bowels without the “BE”
	 31	 Marshy wetland
	 32	 More than a single; less 
than an album
	 33	 Department store shoe 
chain
	 34	 Spoil or contaminate
	 36	 Consume
	 38	 “Nah to the ah to the to 
the”
	40	 Uni. with a ram mascot
	 44	 Peasily
	 45	 Tequila plant
	 46	 Informational 
abbreviation
	 50	 Is just a number
	 51	 The purple character in 
Australian train safety 
game, Dumb Ways to 
Die.
	 52	 Teenage clothing 
retailer, abbr.
	 53	 For love on a bridge in 
Paris
	 54	 Athena’s favorite bird
	 55	
fain, 
vive, 
visit
	 57	 Italian oil giant
	 59	 Useful battery side
	 61	 form of female 
contraception
	 62	 hand : finger : : foot : 
	 63	 The sixth letter
	 66	 Neither bad nor good
	 69	 It
what it

Critter Jitters
© The New Journal
May 2024

