Publication date: April 2004
Volume: 36
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Michael Addison
- Editor-in-Chief: Paige Austin
- Managing Editors: Sarah Laskow, F!Dra Lichtman
- Designer: Miao \\:'ling
- Business Manager: Brian U:'llyda
- Photography Editor: Eve Fairbanks
- Production Manager: Adriane Quinlan
- Research Director: Romy Drucker
- Circulation and Subscriptions Managers: Ann Lane Rick, David Zax
- Web Editor: Concha Mmdoza
- Associate Photo Editor: Sarahi Uribt


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- The Guilded Age - Adriane Quinlan
- Unsought Asylum - David Zax
- Th·e Fourth Coming - Chaitanya Mehra
- Derailed from the Tenure Track - Evelyn Shih
- Points of Departure -  
- The Critical Angle: Excavating Kahn - Charlotte Howard
- Shots in the Dark: Birds of a Feather - Eve Fairbanks
- Interview: World Fellow Norbert Mao: Uganda's Next President - 
- Endnote: Tweedle-Dumb - Romy Drucker


**Title: The Guilded Age**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 13**

Derelict buildings allow New Haven artist guilds to Survive.


**Title: Unsought Asylum**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 16**

The psychiatric ward at Yale-New Haven Hospital cares for Yales most depressed 
students -whether they want it or not.


**Title: Th·e Fourth Coming**
**Author: Chaitanya Mehra**
**Page number(s): 20**

How the grand design for the Chapel Square Mall gives way to urban compromise.


**Title: Derailed from the Tenure Track**
**Author: Evelyn Shih**
**Page number(s): 26**

Young professors paint their side of the tenure debate.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: The Critical Angle: Excavating Kahn**
**Author: Charlotte Howard**



**Title: Shots in the Dark: Birds of a Feather**
**Author: Eve Fairbanks**
**Page number(s): 34**



**Title: Interview: World Fellow Norbert Mao: Uganda's Next President**
**Page number(s): 36**



**Title: Endnote: Tweedle-Dumb**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 38**


**Title: Natural Hazards**
**Author: Amia Srinivasan**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Natural Hazards 
. . 
It's just after midnight on a Monday, and 
I'm in the backseat of a car heading up 1-95 
towards Orange, with Lucas Dreier, a pony-
tailed Yale senior. Val and Liliana, a middle-
aged Connecticut couple that Lucas met 
through a meditation course, are sitting in 
front, talking about India; Lucas is checking 
the batteries in his flashlight. 

About twenty minutes out of New 
Haven, we spot our target: Trader Joe's gro-
cery store, now closed. Lucas directs Val to 
park the car behind a dumpster, out of view 
from the street. "Get your masks out," Lucas 
quips. Armed with flashlights, and keeping . 
our voices low to avoid the night attendant 
on duty, the four of us get out of the car and 
make our way over to a large black dumpster. 
With childlike enthusiasm, Lucas lifts up 
the lid, takes out his flashlight, and jumps in 
among heaps of plastic bags. Wearing only 
sandals, old jeans, and a corduroy shirt 
despite the frigid cold, he eagerly begins to 
tear open the plastic bags 
revealing pack-
aged food mixed in with rotten items, thaw-
ing meat, spoilt vegetables and cracked bot-
tles of tomato sauce. Ignoring the faint 
4 
-----------
stench, Lucas plunges. his bare hands into a 
bag and discovers, much to his excitement, 
what he calls great finds: cartons of half-and-
half, an intact bag of nuts, bags of frozen veg-
etables, and a hunk of cheddar cheese. 

"The first rule of dumpstering," Lucas 
explains as he rummages, unfazed, through a 
particularly soggy bag of food remains, "is to 
never be hesitant to reach down to the bot-
tom of a disgusting bag 
inevitably, that's 
where the real treat is." Proving his point, he 
happily pulls out a large can of oats, covered 
in organic slime. "Just a little messy," he says, 
"but perfectly good." From inside the dump-
ster, he hands the can over to us, and we add 
it to our growing pile of liberated goods. 

Like me, this is Val and Liliana's first 
time dumpstering, and it shows. When Lucas 
tries to convince them that the "partially-
opened" bag of Belgian chocolate chip cook-
ies are still edible, they pause warily. Lucas 
tosses the cookies onto the pile next to the 
large can of oats. "We'll take cern," he says; 
"My housemates will eat anything." 

Lucas is right: the people with whom he 
lives enjoy dumpstered food daily. They also 
share his passion for recycling, minimal 
resource use, and anti-globalization rhetoric. 

In fact, for Lucas and his seven housemates, 
this is a way of life. They are the original 
founders of the Greenhouse, Yale's first and 
only cooperative living group. 

Started last fall by a group ofYale upper-
rclassmen, the Greenhouse allows students 
who are committed to social justice and envi-
ronmental responsibility to try to live accord-
ing to their ideals. Besides minimizing 
resource use (enter dumpstering), this means 
making all decisions through group consen-
sus, cooking vegetarian or vegan meals 
together, and fostering an ethic of mutual 
cooperation and inter-dependence. Located 
on 125 Dwight Street, the Greenhouse has 
had its fair share of challenges. But now, by all 
accounts, it's thriving. Already, ~eteen Yale 
students have expressed an interest in joining 
next year. 

There is a lot to the Greenhouse beyond 
dumpstering, though it is a vital part of its 
plan to reduce waste (dumpsters behind 
Trader Joe's, Lucas tells me, are recognized 
nationally as "activist goldmines," because of 
the large quantities of packaged food discard-
ed there). The house, with its strong commit-
ment to environmental and social responsibil-
ity, is a haven for Yale's activist community. It 


--- Page 5 ---

**Title: Networked**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Networked 
With a touch of nostalgia, I pushed open 
the door of Koffee? on Audubon Street and 
greeted a scene with which I had become 
familiar over the past seven months. The cof-
fee shop was overflowing with a diverse mix 
of busybodies and activists, brought together 
courtesy of Meetup, an Internet bulletin 
board that helps unite strangers with shared 
interests. As the local coordinator running 
Meetups on behalf of Wesley Clark's presi-
dential campaign, I was accustomed to stand-
ing in front of a similar group each month at 
Anna Liffey's. These small gro·up gatherings 
were just one piece of·a small nationwide rev-
olution, in which thousands of supporters 
honed Internet technology like Meetup into a 
political tool guaranteed to give candidates a 
boost. For Clark and the previously little-
known Vermont Governor Howard Dean, 
that boost was enough to seize headlines, but 
not victory. Instead, the campaign of John 
Kerry, which is considerably less adept with 
local organizing and Internet technology like 
Meetup, emerged as the Democrats' hope for 
a November victory. 

That's· why tonight's meeting at Koffee? 
was different, and not just for me. Previous 
Meetups had always been devoted to meeting 
on behalf of a particular candidate, but the 
Democratic National Committee had desig-
nated tonight's meeting a special "Unity 
Meetup." Grudgingly, the former Deaniacs 
and Clark supporters were heeding the call to 
transfer their allegiance to the triumphant 
Kerry clan 
and to bring their technology 
with them. 

Meetup's website (www.meetup.com) 
lists over 4,000 topics around which people 
can converge ranging from Bufl}r the Vampire 
Slayer to crocheting 
political groups are 
only a subset, although with the advent of the 
Dean and Clark campaigns, they have 
become a dominant subset. 

Users pick a 
topic, enter their zip code, and find out when 
the next meeting is. The pre-determined 
meeting days fall at the same time on the 
same day each month, so there's no wrangling 
over people's schedules. Venues are deter-
mined by vote: local New Haven spots have 
included Koffee?, Playwright, Anna Liffey's, 
and Olde Blue. The average Meetup involves 
members informally gathering to socialize 
and discuss their common interest over a few 
drinks 
but, as the Dean and Clark cam-
paigns have demonstrated, they can also 
accomplish much more. 

The self-designated leader of the Unity 
Meetup was Ward 22's newly elected 
Democratic Committee co-chair, Alyssa 
Rosenberg. Perched on a table in front of the 
floor-to-ceiling windows at the back of the 
coffee shop, she had her hands full with the . 
restless array of button-clad Democrats who 
filled the room. Some of the crowd consisted 
of bright-eyed political newcomers; others 
were old hands who still weren't sold on this 
newfangled form of mobilization. Most chal-
lenging of all, Rosenberg faced the bemused 
and impatient stares of several contingents of 
Clark and Dean supporters, who had been 
attending and running their own Meetups for 
months. 

One of them, Sharon Steuer, whose 
attachment to the exciting time of Dean's rise 
was visibly intact, is an artist and former 
coordinator for Dean. She sat in a corner 
among a tight cluster of fellow supporters of 
the Vermont Governor and was clearly having 
a hard time concealing her impatience with 
the Democrats who lacked the Dean cam-
paign's adroitness with of local organizing. As 
Rosenberg and members of the audience hes-
itantly considered creating a media response 
committee, Steuer interjected, "The DeaD 
campaign already knows how to do this. Let's 
not reinvent the wheel." 

The vocal but confused comments frofll 
around the room only rein£0rced Steuer's 
annoyance. 

"I have a question: Why are we having all 
of these groups?" said Keith Crane, a. moun-
tainous man whose booming voice startled 
Rosenberg and much of the crowd. "There's 3 
Kerry Meetup tomorrow; why don't we just 
go to that one and get rid of this one? I was 3 
Dean supporter before, but we've got a candi-
date now. It's John Kerry and we should be 
united around him. So why do we need all of 
these different meetings?" Crane's complaintS 
are not without foundation: sometimes, the 



**Meetup in New Haven**
**Author: Eric Tam**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
main result of Meetup can just be a lot of 
meetings. Plus, because the organizing meth-
ods usually associated with the technology do 
. 
not carry are fixed institutional structures or 
hard lines of accountability, the success of a 
particular locality 
• 
m 
to orgamzmg 
voters depends on 
the personalities of 
the people who 
decide to take on 
leadership 
roles 
there. 

Despite these 
drawbacks, 
the 
potential . of these 
new techniques has 
drawn the atten-
tion of Democratic 
officials all over the 
country, including 
New Haven. 
"The 
Party 
. ' 
tsn t as Innovative 
and fresh as it 
needs 
to 
be," 
Democratic Town 
Committee Chair 
Susan Voigt tells 
me the following 
night over drinks 
in the basement of 
Anna Liffey's. We 
are speaking over 
the din of fifty 
chatting 
people, 
who are attending 
first 
Kerry 
Meetup since the 
Massachusetts 
Senator 
cinched 
... ,.. 
the nomination. The students leading the 
event 
Zach Jones and Rachel Juarez, mem-
bers of Yale College for Kerry 
got advance 
warning of what to expect-as a result of the 
previous evening's turnout and have managed 
to improvise an agenda with aplomb. The 
attendees have to maneuver around us as they 
line up to donate money to nominee's cause 
and sign up for the lists of activities. 

To Voigt, the free-form structure and 
energy that characterize Meetups seem both 
mysterious and intriguing. "This is all so new 
and different to me. I'm used to ;mion poli-
tics, where there's a structure, and everyone 
knows exactly what they're supposed to do. 
But we need to learn to do this, to put some 
more life into the Party, and to use these new 
ideas and technologies to reach different con-
APRIL 2004 
stituencies than the ones I usually see," she 
says earnestly. "We even got Mayor John 
[DeStefano] to sign up," she adds 
a good 
sign that Meetup has broken into the con-
sciousness of the Democratic establishment 
' 
. . .. 
... 
. ., ~· 
in New Haven. 

Rosenberg intends to lat~h onto that 
opening and harness the enthusiasm of the 
Clark and Dean Meetup groups to energize 
the local Democratic Party. "There are 
130,000 people in N~ Haven and only 
50,000 are registered Democrats. This is 
unacceptable," she says. As the city regularly 
polls oover half Democratic, Rosenberg has a 
rea~on to expect more. On the other hand, 
this dominance is itself a reason for apathy. 
With such a powerfUl Democratic machine 
ensuring victory at almost all levels of govern-
ment in election after election, it's nnsurpris-
ing that few people see much reason to regis-
ter and vote. Although the Kerry campaign 
hopes to build the anarchic energy of the 
Clark and Dean Meetups into a potent anti-
Bush force. Laura Barnes, a Clark supporter 
from Lyme, is skeptical: "We grew from with-
in, from early meetings and increasing online 
organization and they worked. The Kerry 
people are trying to get into this sideways, 
and I'm not sure 
that they fit." 

Sideways or 
otherwise, 
Kerry campaign 
is interested in 
making it work, 
and 
activists such as 
Juarez and Jones 
are eager to reach 
out to the sup-
porters of other 
Democratic can-
didates to learn 
new orgamzmg 
techniques. They 
may have little 
other choice: on 
morning 
~fter 
Super 
Tuesday, 
had a hundred 
million 
dollars 
less money in his 
campatgn 
sury 
President 
In 
trea-
than 
Bush. 
weeks 
since then, Kerry 
has had signifi-
cant 
success 
fundraising, with 
the fUror over 
September 
· 
11th 
commis-
sion helping to increase interest. But as the 
controversy ebbs and flows, gaining an advan-
tage 
over the 
President will 
require 
Democrats across the country to tap into 
their source of comparative advantage, tap-
ping into their ability to motivate supporters 
at local venues like Koffee and Anna Liffey's. 


**Hearing History**
**Author: Julian Darwalt**

Looking for the 
office of Andy 
Horowitz, director of the New Haven Oral 
History Project, in the basement of HGS, I 
take a wrong turn down the dim orange hall 
7


and wind up walled in by a decayed mattress 
and a pile of discarded desks. Though Andy 
says that he is ashamed to lead donors to his 
office, the project has recently attracted sig~ 
nificant 
donations. The energetic office 
makes up for the modest surroundings. From 
the recorders on Andy's desk to the stacks of 
CDs with the stories ofNew Haven residents, 
one senses that something historically signifi-
cant is in the works here. 

Andy launches into the history of his 
own project and its connection with urban 
renewal. He sees a great . logic to the 
NHOHP: it fills a historically important gap 
in the extensive literature on New Haven's 
renewal, it is educational for the interviewers 
(some of whom are doing simultaneous indi~ 
vidual research), and it helps foster a town-
gown dynamic that is empowering for New 
Haven citizens. 

He gives me a quick history of New 
Haven renewal, beginning with historians' 
traditional starting point 
Richard Lee, 
mayor of New Haven from 1954:-1970. 
During that time Lee created radical change 
in the city with extremely well-funded pro-
jects that attracted national attention. At one 
point, New Haven was receiving twice as 
much from. the government as any other city 
iri America. But while he put New Haven at · 
the forefront of American urban renewal pro-
jects, his policies remain controversial. He 
relocated over 25,000 people to create his 
conception of "the model city." In the 
process, he erased much of what was deemed 
unsightly in New Haven, but some would 
argue that in the process he also got rid of 
much of what was good. 

Pointing to a . 
framed magazine page OIJ. his wall, Andy 
shows 
me 
several 
Caterpillar 
Heavy 
Equipment magazine advertisements depicting-
ing Richard Lee in command of a fleet of 
bulldozers ploughing through New Haven. 

Previously, historians have examined 
how Lee set up alternative government struc-
tures, how he secured his massive amounts of 
funding, and how he achieved such large scale 
change. 

From historians like Yale professor 
Douglas Rae, we know a good deal about a 
small number of the people who governed 
New Haven. But, Andy explains, we know 
very little about what the actual experience 
was like for most residents: "No one," Andy 
says, "has ever asked what was it like to live in 
the model city." One of the main goals of 
oral history is to record the stories of those 
people who are not represented in the tradi-
tional historical record. Andy is a firm believ-
8 
er in the notion that "You don't have to be 
famous for your life to be history." And this 
community-based approach, he says, is part 
of what has made the project so successful; 
people want to do it, and they are aware that 
they are helping write history themselves .. 

In Andy's opinion the very act of inter-
viewing is just as valuable as the archives it 
produces. While Andy thinks the typical 
range of Yale service projects is fantastic, he 
noticed that after a while the dynamic can get 
a little one-sided 
Yale students are the 
experts helping out New Haven. With the 
oral history project, New Haven residents are 
helping out students, and the interviews· are 
empowering for both sides, Growing up in 
New Haven, Andy says pointedly, "my par-
ents and friends were smart, too." 

About half way through our talk, a mem-
ber of his team comes in. She has just inter-
viewed a resident for a research paper. "His 
dog burped into the microphone," she says. 
"Yeah, that happened to me .too one time," 
replies Andy. 

How did Andy begin the project in 
which he would later have experience with 
dog-burp archival? Andy is a New Haven res-
ident who went to Hillhouse High School. 
For four summers he worked for the 
Department of Weights and Measures. He 
was the guy who went .around making sure 
· everybody got a fair deal on their cheese at 
the deli by standardizing scales. "When you 
are doing a job like that," he admits, "you 
take your time." So he heard all sorts of inter-
esting stories. As for the cheese scale accura-
cy, he says, the benefit usually went to the 
customers: "the scales get sticky after a while 
which makes things read as heavier." Andy 
offers that detail with a certain self-aware 
excitement, his inner archivist grinning at the 
idea.that he has had firsthand access to such a 
quirky fact. 

What else has Andy found? Some stories 
are bits of New Haven color: the owner of the 
Winchester factory used to ride his bike up a 
hill holding onto the back of a trolley. Others 
probe the high hopes and tough conse-
quences of renewal. A planner of the 
Audobon arts district describes the period as 
"one of the most exciting times; there was the 
sense that you could dream as big as you 
wanted and the city and the federal govern-
ment could have it there for you to make it 
happen." A man tells how, when his child-
hood neighborhood was bulldozed, he would 
take the after school bus with his friends to 
stand around the remains of their old neigh-
borhood. Another resident describes how her 
family had owned a store for three genera-
tions 
a store that "is now under 1-91. They 
built a highway over my livelihood." There 
are also stories of integration; one interviewee 
was a lawyer for a group dedicated to inte-
grating predominantly white neighborhoods. 
The group was made up of bankers and 
1 
h 
(( 
" 
awyers w o ran a straw man operation: 
white owners would think they were selling to 
whites when, in fact, the people they met 
were decoys. Once the previous residents had 
left, the new black owners would sign the 
deeds. 

Andy also hopes to explore the excite-
ment of renewal and the problems it created 
through intra-neighborhood conversations. 
These will include three Local History Days 
at the New Haven Free Public Library when 
members of the old neighborhoods will have 
a chance to trade stories in panel discussions. 
He also is working ·on a museum exhibit 
called "Life in the Model City." 

Andy gives me a few CD's of recorded 
interviews. The first is an interview with the 
Reverend Dr. Edwin Edmonds, an Mrican-
American sociology professor at Bennett 
College in Greensboro, North Carolina who 
came to New Haven on February 7, 1959, 
after the racist backlash against integration 
endangered his family. He slowly describes 
taking his two daughters to a "white-only" 
municipal pool supported by his tax money. 
When he got to New Haven, he took a job at 
the Dixwell Church of Christ and continued 
his involvement with the NAACP, which the 
New Haven White Citizens' council had 
declared "treasonous." 

Listening to Edmonds' stories is 
very different from the frenzy of daily life at 
Yale. The stories emerge slowly. 
There is 
something soothing about taking an hour out 
of the day listening to someone who's not 
talking any faster to accommodate your hec-
tic schedule. While Horowitz is busy tran-
scribing interviews to be more rapidly acces-
sible, skimming these stories will have an 
entirely different effect than listening to the 
Reverend speak 
slowly and clearly, proud of 
the fact that he has an eager audience. 


**The Past Recast**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

The Peabody Museum of Natural 
History will soon have a symbol to define its 
role in the Yale-New Haven community: a 
twenty-one foot long dinosaur sculpture. But 
the museum didn't opt for a well-known or 
particularly graceful species of dinosaur; 
instead, its curators chose the torosaurus; an 
obscure herbivore from the Late Cretaceous 
period that is closely related to the tricer:.. 
a tops. 

The torosaurus, along with several species, 
was first named and 
described by 0. C. 
Marsh, a 19th cen-
tury Yale paleontolo-
gist. Then again, 
Marsh also identi-
fied five hundred 
other more promi-
nent dinosaurs, such 
as the stegosaurus 
and the triceratops. 
So why did the 
Peabody choose the 
torosaurus? 
And 
why 
does 
Peabody 
need 
a 
twenty-one 
foot 
long bronze statue anyway? 

The 
museum's 
Curator of Vertebrate 
Paleontology, Jacques Gaultier, first hatched 
the idea in 2000, when he suggested erecting 
up a sculpture to give the Peabody an identi-
fiable icon. Gaultier started the search for a 
sculptor outside the Peabody community, but 
when exhibit creator and prepartor Michael 
Anderson heard about the plan, he jumped at 
the opportunity. In fact, he is still so still so 
wildly passionate about the project that he 
can't imagine why the Peabody didn't imme-
diately consider offering the job to one of its 
own staff members. "This is what I do, this is 
what I've been trained to do. My background 
is anatomy and sculpture. I couldn't believe 
it," he said. When Richard Burger, director of 
Museum, asked him 
to put together a few 
proposals. Anderson 
agreed and began the 
search for the perfect 
dinosaur. 

"The one that I was 
really interested in 
doing 
was 
Torosaurus; 
that 
would be the most 
.. 
fun to sculpt," Anderson said. He was lucky: 
when Peabody Museum Director Dr. Richard 
Burger saw Anderson's torosaurus model, he 
chose it before even looking at the others. 

Still, neither Yale nor the Peabody had 
APRil. 2004 
approved the sculpture, and the project had 
no funding. The preliminary stages of the 
project took two years to complete, so 
Anderson used the time to refine his 
torosaurus model. He . traveled to the 
Smithsonian and worked with its paleontolo-
. gists and preparators to create a more accurate 
model. He presented this second version of 
the torosaurus to the Peabody curators in the 
summer of 200 1. They loved it, but the pro-
ject still needed funding and approval from 
Yale's Outdoor Sculpture Committee, which 
has the responsibility to oversee the place-
ment of sculptures on the campus. By the 
summer of 2002, Yale had approved the 
sculpture and the project received all of its 
funding from an "individual that cannot be 
named." 

With 
approval 
funding 
cleared, 
Anderson immersed himself in the project. 
He went back to the Smithsonian's paleon-
tologists and "picked their brains for a couple 
of days," returning to Yale with -~:me-sixth 
scale 
triceratops 
bone 
casts. 
(Because 
torosaurus bones are much rarer than those of 
the triceratops and the 
two have ·very similar 
structures, Anderson 
and the paleontologists 
agreed to use the tricer-
atops 
skeleton 
reconstruct 
torosaurus.) 

When he finished the 
one-sixth scale model, 
Anderson upgraded to 
one-third 
model, building first the skeleton then the 
musculature. Now Anderson has moved the 
sculpture to his house in Guilford and is 
crafting the skin, which he hopes to complete 
by the end of April. 

A few blocks away from his house, another 
team · of worker~ is using a point-matching 
method to build the dinosaur up to full scale. 
Once the life-size sculpture is completed, it ' 
will be taken to bronze casters, and the ' • 
bronze sculpture will be returned to the 
Peabody, where it will be mounted on· an · 
I 
eight-foot tall, fifteen-foot long block of, 
granite 
Anderson 
will ' 
finally 
see 
his 
"dream project" in • 
completion . . 

Meanwhile, 
Peabody still hasn't 
set a completion . 
date or location for 
$400,000 
sculpture. 
Tentatively, 
the ; 
torosaurus will be 
mounted in front 
of the museum, at 
Whitney 
and ' 
Satchem. But due , 
to the large dawn redwood in the area, dissat -
isfied architects are perusing Whitney for 
other possible sites. 

The project won't be completed for at least . 
another year, but five years is not an abnor-
mal!y long time span for such a project. Since 
committing to reconstructing the torosaurus, . 
Anderson has learned a lot about dinosaurs. ' 
He usually studies and works with the facial 
bone structure and muscle arrangement of 
hominids,. specifically the Australopithecus: · 
the species on which he wrote his this is what 
he wrote his Masters thesis. While there are 
basic similarities in the musculature and 
skeletal build of hominids and dinosaurs, 
Anderson knew very little about reconstruct-
ing dinosaurs and Teptiles. He realized that . 
dissecting reptiles and birds would help him . 
better understand the torosaurus' muscula- · 
ture. So he began to study and dissect reptiles, 
including crocodiles and iguanas, as well as a 
few birds. He is also checking with experts _ 
about every decision he makes along the way. 
''I'm really pleased with how much effortJ 
went into this thing, how much we 
researched it," Anderson said. "We have back--
up on every decision we made." 

But the Peabody has a history of blunders in 
its reconstructions, from "The Age of 
Reptiles," Rudolph .ZaiJinger's mural in the 
Great Hall 
all the animals in it are now 
understood to be grossly misrepresented 
to . 
the apatosaurus reconstruction, which is the 
the most iconic thing the Peabody has right • 



**The Age of Reptiles and the Making of History**
**Author: Lane Rick**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
now. Aside from being rebuilt inaccurately, 
the apatosaurus body is attached to the skull 
of a camarasaurus, creating the brontosaurus, 
a dinosaur that doesn't actually exist. 
Anderson acknowledges someone will proba-
bly find an error in his torosaurus, giving it 
the same fate as "The Age of Reptiles" and 
the apatosaurus. But, as he emphasizes, '"The 
Age of Reptiles' remains as a work of art. I 
hope the torosaurus will be the same way." 
He paused dramatically. "~d they will find 
something." Yet, the apatosaurus and "The 
Age of Reptiles" are markers _for human per-
ception of the dinosaurs, which is molding a 
history of its own. 
-Lane Rick


**Poetic Justice**
**Author: Brian Wazyda**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

Taylor Mali, former national champion 
performance poet, was wearing an American 
flag pin on the lapel of his blazer. An unset-
tled feeling began to grow among the twenty 
Yale students in the room. Mali's prea,cher-
like baritone voice, squeezed into a hurried 
introduction, made him sound like a nervous 
stand-up comic; The audience. wondered if 
this poet's jive would be a departure from the 
typical anti-elitist, disenfranchised tone that 
is endemic to slam poetry. After all, slam 
poetry, the illegitimate child of poetry and 
hip-hop, popularized but commercially mis-
represented by Russell Simmons' Def Poetry 
Jam, is characterized by rebellion 
against 
academia, against government, but most of 
all, against itsel£ In fact, the genre is in dan-
ger of disintegrating because the poets them-
selves refuse to identify with the movement. 
Slam poetry, as Mali has said, is best defined 
by its medium, which is performance art. It 
doesn't exist on the page or in the mind but 
in the audience's reaction, which waivers 
between a strange empowerment and submis-
sion to the sheer volume of his emphatic, 
staccato votce: 
He says the problem with teachers is, 
"What's a kid going to learn 
from someone who decided his best 
option in life was to become a teacher?" 
He reminds the other dinner guests that 
it's true what they say about 
teachers: 
Those who can, do; those who can't, 
teach. 

I decide to bite my tongue instead of his 
and resist the temptation to ·remind the 
dinner guests 
that it's also true what they say about 
lawyers. 
Because we're eating, after all, and this is 
polite company 
Mali believes that every poet should have 
twenty minutes of material to "instruct and 
entertain" any audience, whether it be a room 
of eighth graders or George Bush. Mali took 
a break from a twelve year teaching career to 
bring his philosophy to the road and accom-
plish his goal of encouraging young people to 
become teachers. His formula for change 
combines his classroom experience with a 
dash of anti-elitism thrown in as a token trib-
ute to the genre. To inspire others, Mali 
describes his. proudest moment as a teacher-
the opening of a young girl's mind: 
I'm writing the poem that will change 
the world, 
and it's Lilly Wilson at my office door. 
Lilly is writing a research paper for me 
about how homosexuals shouldn't be 
allowed. 
to adopt children ... 
... I can't believe I'm saying this, Mr. 
Mali, 
but I think I'd like to switch sides. 
And I want to tell her to do more than 
just believe it, 
but to enjoy it! 


When M_ali brings his show down south, 
however, he censors himsel£ To a conservative 
audience, for instance, Lilly's initial objection 
is no longer to gay parenthood, but to allow-
ing Muslims to ride commercial flights. He 
argues that this less controversial issue teach-
es a similar les-
son of open-
mindedness, but 
the 
audience 
accepts this les-
son more readi-
ly. 
In his cen-
sorship, 
Mali 
says he strives to 
be a uniter, not a 
divider. 
Mter 
reading a few 
poems 
gaugmg 
reactions 
and 
political 
lean-
ings of the audi-
ence, he offers 
the aside that his 
flag pin is worn 
out of critical 
irony, intended 
to mock overt 
patriotism. His 
audience can't help but become skeptical, 
wondering if the symbol might change mean-
ing the next time he tours the south. 
Raphi Soifer, on the other hand, wears 
no ambiguous symbols on his lapel. A Yale 
Senior and native of the Seattle area, Soifer 
became involved with slam poetry during a 
year off he spent at home before his freshman 
year, touring local poetry cafes by night. He 
describes himself as, "a performer first, and a 
poet second," but he became disillusioned 
with the genre of slam poetry soon after he 
and a Yale team made it to the national finals 
during his freshman year. 
At ·a typical poetry slam, ftYe judges are 
randomly picked from the audience to assign 
a score from one to ten following each per-
formance. As Mali explains, to win, a poet 
must immediately adapt to reach his audi-
ence,and make his poetry accessible to every-
one present. Indeed, academic poets would 
hardly stand a chance in the slam arena. 
During competition, accessibility can become 
a constraint. For Mali, it is just an inconve-
nience, forcing him to hand pick his poems 
and discard a taboo here and there; for Soifer, 
it robs slam poetry of the freedom that is its 


**How to Write a Political Poem**
**Author: Taylor Mali**
**Page number(s): 11**

How to Write a Political Poem 
By Taylor Mali 
However it begins, it's gotta be loud 
and then it's gotta get a little bit louder. 
Because this is how you write a political 
poem 
and how you deliver it with power ... - -
... Because all you have to do is close 
your eyes, 
lower your voice, and end by saying: 
the same line three times, 
the same line three times. 
Mali's criticism of hip-hop inspired 
poetry takes the form of satirical mimicry of 
the genre, light-hearted and astute on many 
points, but all the more painful to watch 
when delivered by a white, middle-aged man, 
particularly as he attempts to beat-box, grunt, 
and imitate the distinctive slang of hip-hop 
vernacular. The audience is visually uncom-
fortable at best, and the silence conveys a hazy 
disapproval at the breaking of a cultural 
taboo. 
Somebody in the back wonders if he is 
holding anything back, if Mr. Mali is censor-
ing himself for this group of Yale students. 
"Mr. Mali, is there any material you specifi-
cally wouldn't perform for a group of Yale 
students like us?" someone asks. ''Actually, 
the one I just did has gotten me in the most 
trouble," he replies, ''And I wouldn't have 
performed it here if you hadn't brought up 
hip-hop." 
- Brian Wtzyda



**Friendly Fire**
**Author: Concha Mendoza**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Friendly Fire 
During the week, David Heinig, a field 
technician for Qualxserv, frequently answers 
calls from Yale's Information Technology 
Services to service computers throughout 
campus. Several weekends a month, however, 
Heinig steps out of the information age and 
into the Old West. In a wooded area adjacent 
to Quonniquag Lake in rural North 
Guilford, he orchestrates shooting events as 
Territorial Governor of the Bluffhead 
Bushwackers, a cowboy action shooting soci-
ety. In these parts, Heinig is known simply as 
"Cayuse," and the only troubleshooting he 
does is with a gun. Like "Cayuse," every 
member adopts an alias, as required by the 
Bushwackers' parent organization. The name, 
which must be original among the 54,000 
members of the Single Action Shooting 
Society (SASS), is often tied to a fictitious or 
real gunslinger and, combined with a little 
research, helps its holder spawn a new per-
sona complete with period costume and gun 
collection. The sport thus becomes less a 
recreational activity and more a transforma-
• twn. 
For "Cayuse," that transformation 
means donning the styles of the 1880s-
cowboy boots, spurs, buckles, and belts 
proper eye and ear protection for the entire 
day as he fires replicas of 19th century pistols, 
rifles and shotguns at steel targets. He is 
joined in this passion by almost a hundred 
fellow Bushwackers, only ten of whom are 
women. They come out, like their Territorial 
Governor, to enjoy the woods and the good 
company. For these die-hard Bushwhackers, 
living out a youthful infatuation with a game 
of "Cowboys and Indians" is all in a Sunday's 
work. 
Recently, Bushwackers under aliases like 
"Doc Red thumb," "Philetus Fine Shoot," 
and "Col.]. L. Chamberlain" gathered for an 
early morning safety meeting, after which 
they split into three posses to embark on a 
weekend ritual. With spectators standing ju~t 
twenty feet away, the participants trotted, 
one at a time, between shooting stations, 
pulling guns from their holsters and aiming 
them at the· "critters" 
steel targets shaped 
like coyotes, chickens, bears, bunnies, and 
buffalo, as well as the less traditional whiskey 
jugs and enemy cowboys 
that populate 
three clearings in the otherwise towering 
woods. A safety officer. jogs close behind with 
a timer in hand. At each of the three stations, 
the shooters execute stages according to 
detailed scenarios penned by the Territorial 
Governor. Stage two, for example, is entitled 
"Sunday Morning Buggy Ride," with instruc-
tions that read: "You and the misses are out 
for a Sunday Morningbuggy ride when you 
take a bum steer· and wind up face to face 
with some onry critters. Lucky that you 
brought your greener and can take care of the 
matters." Above the scenario descriptions and 
the directions are Microsoft Paint-created 
digital diagrams with trajectories linking the 
' 
stations from which to shoot (a wooden out-
house, a jail, and a swaying buckboard) to the 
critters. The· trajectories are color-coded 
according to the 
type 
of gun . 
required: a shot- · 
gun, rifle or pis-
tol. 
A running 
commentary 
between 
participants 
breaks up the 
booming 
gun 
shots. "I knew I 
was gomg to 
shoot over that 
chicken;" "No 
misses;" and the 
playful-bicker-
ing of wife-hus-
band rivalries. 
Scoring is based 
both on accura-
cy and the over-
all time spent 
completing each 
stage, but the 
only spoils 
a 
wmner IS grant-
• ed are playful 
- bragging rights. 
Most 
of the 
morrung IS pep-
r 
; pered with the 
-~ alternating 
· forceful sounds 
- of firing guns and clink of ejected shells. 
Earplugs limit conversation, but, even so, fre-
quent jovial exchanges display the group's 
pleasant rapport. 

The Bushwackers are part of a growing 
• ' national community created through SASS. 
· The 115-page February issue of The Cowboy 
• · Chronicle, the monthly SASS journal, features 
articles by "Aimless Annie," "Palaver Pete," 
· ' and "J .E. B. Stuart" but doesn't mention a sin-
gle legal name. This is a testament to the 
•12 
unique, tight-knit community, that has devel-
oped across the country among · those who 
share an enthusiasm for .cowboy action shoot-
• mg. 
While "Cayuse~' oversees planning for the 
Bushwacker branch of this extended family, 
another member takes responsibility for keep-· 
ing it safe. On a chilly, drizzly morning, "Lazy 
Ace Bob," leaves his Wall Street job as a port-
folio manager to enter the backwoods. I-fere . 
he takes on the title of Head Safety ·officer, a 
job he takes just as seriously. "Lazy Ace Bob" 
is re·sponsible for making sure SASS safety reg-
ulations are followed, 
such as adherence to 
the "170 degree safe-
ty plane." Shooters 
must. keep their guns 
pointed at their tar-
get at all times: if the 
barrel of their gun 
strays more than 8 5 
degrees . in 
either 
direction, they are 
dis.qualified. . · 
. 
Safe though the 
environment may be, 
it is still extremely 
noisy. 
Neighbors 
complain consistent-
. ly, though "Cayuse" 
says he has been able 
to appease them by 
. restricting shooting 
hours. The group's 
forthcoming under-
ground 
shooting 
facility 
project 
which necessitated a 
five hundred dollar 
contribution 
from 
each 
member--
should 
improve 
Bushwacker-neigh-
bor relations. 
Despite 
com-
plaints from non-
participants, single action shooting is the 
fastest-growing shooting sport in the nation. 
The rules are simple and non-restrictive: all 
participants must wear period clothing, follow 
the safety guidelines, join SASS and be over 
the age of twelve. After trying several shooting 
disciplines, "Cayuse" settled with cowboy 
action shooting because he found it to be the 
most fun and ]east competitive. For the past 
seven years he has participated in the sport 
and in 2000 he founded the Bushwackers . 
Now, as Territorial Governor, he tries to give 
his crew a special niche within SASS. The 
members' names are chosen with care, with 
consideration of their historical weight and 
with the personalities of their holders in 
mind. So when choosing a name for the club, 
"Cayuse" was also careful. He thought "Bluff 
Head," 
which 
refers 
to 
where 
Bushwackers hold their meetings had to be 
incorporated. The chosen name naturally 
. suits a club which "Cayuse" has been mold-
ing. from its infancy to stand-out. "It did not 
take long to settle on 'Bushwackers,"' the 
club's website explains. ''A quick check of The 
Chronicle 
reveals 
few 
'Vigilantes,' 
'Regulators,' and 'Shootists,' but there's only 
'B h 
k 
' " 
one 
us wac ers . 
-Concha Mendoza



**Title: ERELICT BUILDINGS ALLO TIST GUILDS TO URVIVE.**
**Author: Adriane QJ.tinlan**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
ERELICT 
UILDINGS ALLO 
TIST GUILDS TO 
URVIVE. 
-
ike the set for a movie that will never be made, the stretch of 
Orange Street between Chapel and Crown is so empty that it 
· hard to imagine anyone has ever lived there. The storefronts 
are vacant. Picture windows gape at idle sidewalks. Cars rarely pass. 
This is the Ninth Square, a New Haven neighborhood undergoing vast 
renovations with the goal of attracting upscale retail. Further down 
Orange Street, there are new and expensive restaurants, but for now 
this block is still gray and deserted. 

But the Ninth Square is not entirely dead. Though dark and 
unwatched, 60 Orange Street isn't actually vacant. A red ribbon, cut 
long ago at a celebration of the space's opening, bangs limp by the per-
petually, curiously unlocked door. Inside, scrappy wooden pedestals 
support sculptures of lounging, curvaceous women, who stand sentry 
over the naked interior. And at the room's front wind-ow, two life-size 
. . 
painted penguins stare out at the rare passerby who invariably ignores 
them. 

Sixty Orange Street is a temporary display space for the Society of 
Connecticut Sculptors, a Hartford-based artist guild founded twelve 
years ago. According to the society's mission statement, the guild was 
born when "the artistic climate was so overwhelmingly opposed to any 
APRIL 2004 
BY 
hint of realism in art that it was almost impossible for us to show our 
work." Tlie penguin sculptures are the creations of D.C. French, a New 
Haven resident and member of the Society's Board of Directors. He 
speaks proudly of the society, whose membership has recently increased 
to over a hundred area sculptors. 

The guild helps to fill in an important gap in New Haven's art 
scene. As French admits, "It's sort of a struggle to be a local artist in 
New Haven." For a city bursting with well-regarded museums and 
ambitious art students, New Haven has very few outlets to display the 
work of its local talent. The New Haven Paint and Clay Club, the old-
est artist guild in America, now widely admired throughout New 
England, grew out of such a need. "We were originally founded in 
1900 by a group of artists, most of whom were connected to the Yale 
School of Art," explains artist Dolores Gall, the group's president. "For 
sixty or seventy years, it was the only way to display work in New 
Haven apart from through the Yale University An Gallery, and the 
British Art Center didn't even open until '77, but of course we're not 
British anyway," she says, chuckling. The Paint and Clay Club broke 
off from the Yale Galleries, which seek to exp-ose the Yale p-opulation to 
foreign work, leaving local artists largely n nsupp-orted. 


Following the Paint and Clay Club's example, other New Haven 
artists have recently banded together to form loose guilds. These groups 
do not solicit established galleries but try to establish their own spaces 
to showcase their work. The galleries are not typical: ArtSpace, Elm 
City Artists Guild, and the Society of Connecticut Sculptors are reno-
vating abandoned commercial spaces across the city, transforming them 
into temporary artistic havens. By taking charge of these dilapidated, 
downtown spaces, the groups are using the city's crippled economy to 
improve their culture. From the ruins of the economic slump, they are 
sculpting an artistic climate. 

Sixty Orange Street is one such gallery. Two years ago, French 
scoured the Ninth Square's vacant storefronts, hunting for a place for 
his penguins and other artists' works. He asked a real-estate agent a few 
doors down for permission -to display a few sculptures. The agent 
immediately allowed the group to use the vacant building. "The thing 
is, the place is really for rent, and if someone comes in and wants to 
sign a lease for five years to make a restaurant or something and they're 
willing to shell out a couple thousand, then we're out," French explains. 
"So we've got a sort of sweetheart deal at this point in time, as we're not 
paying thousands of dollars. We're just making the place look habit-
able." 

Two years before French even set out on his artistic mission, when 
the economic and artistic climate was at a low point, an organization 
had already emerged with the sole goal of promoting the arts. ArtSpace, 
a non-profit organizaion, is committed to improving the art commu-
nity by finding outlets for local artists to display their work. The orga-
nization is best known for its beautiful converted gallery space on · 
Orange Street, but at any one time the gallery displays work in a dozen 
spaces across town. Helen Kauder, the foundation's director, is contin-
u_ally seeking abandoned buildings to convert to galleries. 

"I'm not really sure why there are all these vacant storefronts," 
Kauder muses. "The businesses just sort ofdied." She notes that spaces 
are becoming . more and more difficult to find.· "Due to the overall 
development in New Haven ... we're having to look deeper into resi-
dential neighborhoods ... The early nineties were a tough time and a lot 
of alternative and commercial galleries folded. When we started in 
1998, we grew from this need to display work from the artist's per-
. " 
specnve. 

The process of converting an abandoned · commercial space into a 
gallery is, of course, no simple feat. "You need to make an appointment 
with the city, and that in itself can be hectic - they're busy with other 
things, and [appointments] needs to be booked far in advance. And 
then you need to pass inspections with a fue marshal ... The work we 
do embodies general cleaning up, cleaning windows, making signs, 
putting in lighting and sometimes building new walls," Kauder 
explains. The group once converted spaces that are now day care cen-
ters, bookshops, Chinese Take-out restaurants, and even a hair salon. 
Displays that are affiliated with ArtSpace have also occupied places like 
the Gourmet Heaven space on Whitney and Audubon Streets, as well 
as Book Trader Cafe. The construction on Chapel and Orange, soon to 
be Cutler's Corner, was once the American Discount Store on 852 
Chapel Street, but even before its aisles were studded with mouthwash 
and diapers, it housed the elegant works of local artists. 

· 
Currently, the gallery collective is involved in a display that opens 
on April 18, in another empty Ninth Square street front across from 
their current location at 50 Orange Street. The show, "Treasure Maps," 
is a collection of art by non-artists: mathematicians, dancers, and biol-
ogists. ArtSpace, unlike the conventional New Haven Paint and Clay 
Oub and the conservative Society of Connecticut Sculptors, seeks to 
display the avant-garde and the cutting edge. "The work we try to show 
is not typical. We are trying to encourage artists to show non-tradi-
tional art, to work together and make site-specific works, and most of 
all we're trying to create a dialogue between the artists," says Kauder. 

ArtSpace is also responsible for the well-known City Wide Open 
Studios, an annual project that brings together about four hundred 
artists and displays their work in a larger, ~bandoned industrialized 
space. The success of City Wide Open Studios has encouraged many 
artists, including Kauder, to seek out permanent non-conventional 
spaces. In fact, marty artists who met at City Wide Open Studios have 
banded together to found their own galleries. 

In 1999., ArtSpace acquired the rights to an empty office building 
at 99 Orange Street. The gallery then transferred control of the space 
to a 
group of artists, including Stephen Grossman, who became-specifically 
interested in one of the building's dilapidated second floor walls. 
Instead of using the open space to display his already extensive body of 
work, Grossman opted to create a site-specific piece. He marked the 
wall with a series of vertical stripes and painted between the stripes a 
fade of light washes that, though largely abstract, implied atmospheric 
spatial depth. Painted over the crumbling surface, Grossman's piece 
revealed the wall's history, highlighting its weighty pa.St. Rather than 
seeking to cover up a piece of failure and destruction, the work accen-
tuates its dilapidation, suggesting the beauty he found in ruin. 

This work, entitled "Collaboration with a Wall," was featured in 
Art News, one of the art world's most widely distributed and respected 
L 


Across the Green, guarding the intersection of Whitney and 
Audubon streets, the former residence of Clinton Pianos has been 
cleared of musical instruments. A "University Properties" sign hangs 
in the front window, advertising the space to interested landlords. But 
here, nestled beneath the crown moldings of imitation living rooms 
and hovering over the wall-to-wall carpeting once ridden by a sea of 
lacquered pianos, hangs the work of yet another collective of hopeful 
painters, the Elm City Artists. 

The Elm City Artists "grew out of friendship," explains founding 
member John Cooney. "We would get together at a local bar after a 
Friday open studio class and talk about art." And while the group has 
pulled together an impressive show, they aren't really reaching for the 
pages of Art News. "Though I suppose," Cooney admits, "some of us 
might harbor the secret desire to be successful." Although their first 
full group show is receiving much less publicity than Grossman's did, 
it is no small accomplishment. "There are about 180 paintings here," 
Cooney says proudly, "And we've sold about forty." Mr. Cooney is not 
APRil. 2004 
I 
j 
' 
the typical gallery guide. In a plaid shirt and jeans, he sits expectantly 
behind a desk stacked with fliers. When a shy blonde asks if she can 
come in and just look at the paintings, or if she has to pay, he's ecstat-
ic. "By all means, come on in," he says, waving her inside. 

When Cooney leads a visitor around the gallery, he's surprised by 
a painting; "Look - one of peas!" he says, excitedly, "I didn't see that 
one before." The painting at which he's pointing is not something you 
would find in the classical floors of the Yale Galleries- it's-a simple snap 
pea, rudely rendered against a lemon yellow backdrop. It's a terrible 
painting, but at the same time, there's something homey and kind 
about the work, and Cooney evidently loves it. A few days later, the 
painting has been moved from the backroom to the front window, 
where it can face the whole city, and maybe draw the attention of the 
next passerby to a storefront which would other-
wise be empty. But when the next aspiring entre-
preneur rents the space, the artists will take down 
their work, forced to find another hole in the fab-
ric of New Haven to patch with their migratory 
art. 
• • 
Adriane QJ.tinlan, a freshman in Calhoun Colkge, 
is Production Manager for TNJ. 
15 



**Title: 10 cares**
**Author: David Za**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
bout twenty years ago, Frank Gehry designed the Yale-New Haven Psychiatric Hospital, which occupies a small triangular block bounded by Liberty Street, Washington Avenue, and Congress Avenue, at the southern edge of the Yale-New Haven Medical Center. 
The stairwells are partially exposed to the elements and a small moat lines one corner of the Hospital complex's lead exterior, which is both toxic and unsafe to touch. Each day, at the entrance on Liberty Street, the mentally ill of Yale and New Haven arrive to be treated, with or without their consent.

Last spring, Flora*, a sophomore, became severely depressed. 
On a night, she said something to a friend along the lines of, "Maybe I should just take all my pills." She doesn't remember her exact words most of that weekend has become a haze. The friend took her to the emergency staff at University Health Services (UHS), which decided, against Flora's will, that she needed to go to "the Hospital" (as she calls it and as it will be referred to herein). 
The ambulance crew strapped her on a stretcher the first of several experiences she now describes as "dehumanizing" and rushed her to the suicidal unit at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. There, after waiting seven hours for a bed to become available, she was again put on a stretcher and wheeled to the adult psychiatric ward. 

Another patient, Michael, has less traumatic memories of entering "the Hospital." 
Sometime in October, after a "pretty terrible weekend depression-wise," Michael's psychiatrist recommended a visit at the end of his regular mental hygiene appointment. At first Michael resisted, but the doctor assured him he "would be there just for a few days. It just going to be a chance to rest and recu-u ... " 
He consented, and about an hour later, an ambulance arrived to take him to the Hospital. He remembered the ambulance being "a little too chipper ... but one was a woman with a heavily hair-sprayed fe-mul-e-a e's a e-a e's let, and that's worth mentioning." 

Although Michael consented to go to the Hospital, if his doctor had declared his case an emergency, Michael's opinion, like Flora's, would not have mattered. Dr. Sledge, Medical Director of the Hospital and Master of Calhoun College, estimates that one quarter of the Hospital's admitted patients are "truly involuntary," but that after about a week, most end up changing their minds. 
Still, there are those, like Flora, who do not change their minds. For them, their forced hospitalization makes them feel that their mental health has slipped out of their control. 
For Michael, this loss of control became apparent when he learned that a doctor he had just met for a few minutes that morning had called his mother and asked her to come to the hospital. "Had my therapist or psychiatrist, or even [my dean] called her, they would have known that my mother herself attempted suicide a little over a month prior," he recalled later. "-My relationship with her is tenuous, and her presence was not comforting to me at the time." The phone call from UHS was the first time Flora's parents had heard that their daughter had mental health problems. In high school, Flora never told anyone she was depressed: "I never talked about being depressed to my guid~ counselor, because I thought she would give me a bad recommendation and I wouldn't get into college." Her parents had to drive to New Haven and stay in the Ronald McDonald House, a discount residence for families of the hospitalized. 

Both Flora and Michael are ex-residents of WS2, the adult ward at the Hospital. Dr. Sledge explains, "WS2 means the operations that are on the second floor of the Washington Square building," which is named for the adjacent street (as are the complex's other two buildings, Liberty Village and Congress Place). 

Sarah, a junior who also had a severe depressive episode, arrived at WS2 just hours before Michael. On the day of their arrival, the ward was decorated with cutout pumpkins illustrated with faces patients had drawn during a session of occupational therapy. Ghosts adorned the nurse's station, a big glass box overlooking the lounge. "I looked at the nurse's station and immediately thought: 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'" Sarah said. On the corkboard in her room, someone had written a dialogue with Jesus. "Forgive me Jesus for my evil, evil sins," it read, and then beneath that: "I forgive you I watch over everyone in this room. Remember the Ten Commandments love thy father and mother." The word "remember" was underlined twice. 

Sarah shared her quad with three older women. WS2 does not separate Yale students from New Haven residents, nor does it separate those with mood disorders, like depression or bipolar disorder, from those with other illnesses, like schizophrenia, which a number of students complained about. "One 83-year-old woman wouldn't stop talking when it was time to go to sleep," said Sarah. "She'd just say, 'Get me out of here, please God get me out of here.'" The first night, a patient with Tourette's syndrome sat outside her room cursing repeatedly. "He was like a leaky faucet just saying 'Fuck. Fuck. Fuck.'" 

In the hospital, the day begins early. 
"You have to get up at the ass crack of dawn," said Flora. The first activity is "Goals Group," a group session during which each patient, in turn, declares his or her goal for the day. "Everyone said their goal was to get out that day. One guy was deaf. He would just scream," Flora remembered. 

All patients are assigned a treatment team that includes a nurse, a doctor, a social worker, and some medical students, since Yale-New Haven is a teaching hospital. 

Flora said that the Hospital was not helpful: "You just sit around for eight fucking hours thinking about how depressed you are." Dr. Robert Milstein, Associate Medical Director, said that while life in the ward is certainly "not exciting in the sense that everyday life is," there are still activities and various treatments over the course of the day. 
There are outdoor breaks, there are puzzles and board games, and there is a television. 
And there is also occupational therapy, otherwise known as arts and crafts. One day during her two-week stay at the hospital, Sarah's art therapist told the group to draw how they were feeling. "I drew a brick wall and a tornado chasing a little guy," she told me. "And I drew a knot." 

The history of the Yale-New Haven Psychiatric Hospital reflects the history of psychiatric care through the past century. 
Until recently it was called the Yale Psychiatric Institute (YPI), established by the Yale Medical School in the 1930s. 
Throughout the following decades, the YPI used a psychoanalytic approach, specializing in adolescent and young adult treatment. 
The method common in these decades was known as "rehabilitative." The setting was "more like home," says Dr. Sledge, and those who could afford it came from all over the world to the YPI. 

In the 1960s a strong anti-institutional sentiment swept across much of the nation, and many psychological hospitals and homes were emptied. But this first wave of de-institutionalization was ill-conceived, since few outpatient resources were well-developed. A second wave of de-institutionalization over the next two decades was more successful, although it was followed by a sharp rise in the costs of both inpatient and outpatient mental health care. Insurance companies began pressuring patients not to stay long in mental hospitals. "Today," Dr. Sledge told me, "those who pay the bills have said, 'We are not paying for rehabilitation we pay for the treatment of acute symptoms.'" Because of this pressure, the average stay at today's psychiatric hospital is only eight or nine days. 

Due to this drop in financing, the YPI began to accumulate debts. Meanwhile, the neighboring Yale-New Haven Hospital has always had its own mental health service. In 2000, Yale Medicine Magazine ran a blurb headed "FALL TO YPI," calling the Institute "a victim of the new economics of healthcare." The Yale-New Haven Hospital would acquire the old facility under Dr. Sledge's direction, improving both their own mental health services and those of the Institute since "Yale-New Haven Hospital has more access to patients through its medical services and can participate in federal programs such as Medicare and Medicaid more fully than a free-standing psychiatric hospital." 

The shift in payments from insurance companies, which led to a shift in the standard of care, may be one of the factors that provoked criticisms of the psychiatric hospital. As Dr. Sledge pointed out, the old "rehabilitative" system was more lenient toward the patients but ultimately unsustainable due to the expense. The cost of weeks or months of nursing and doctoring was too expensive for the majority, and thus the system was "not democratic, in that only the very wealthy, and the very well-insured could afford treatment." 
The new system, then, was democratic, because it was cheaper but it became cheaper at a price. 

When you have suicidal thoughts, Flora said, "you don't really want to die. You just want something inside you to die." 
Though she told the emergency staff at UHS that she wanted to sleep for a very long time, it was because she wanted relief from her depression. Flora wanted the rehabilitation she had thus far failed to get, not just the treatment of acute symptoms, so she was determined to get out of the Hospital from the moment she set foot inside. For her, WS2 was "really demoralizing. It made me feel like I couldn't take care of myself. And they didn't change my medications, they didn't really give me therapy." 

The weekend of her arrival at the Hospital, Flora talked with two other Yale students who would soon be let out after a week and a half stay. The students had just learned that Yale was asking them to take a medical leave from school. The two girls advised Flora to be careful about what she told her doctors, if she wanted to be able to stay at Yale. 

A student often becomes a patient at the Hospital before he even learns that his status at Yale is in jeopardy and hinges on approval from two doctors at Mental Hygiene, Dr. Lorraine Siggins and Dr. Eric Millman. They decide whether a student is allowed to return to classes or if he will have to take medical leave. 

The two girls whom Flora befriended in the Hospital gave her advice on how to portray herself to those evaluating her. "They said if I let them know that school's a problem, they'd kick me out. So, basically, I was very manipulative with my doctors." 

Dr. Sledge tried to sketch the different viewpoints surrounding the doctors' decisions to hospitalize and to subsequently force medical leave. Patients generally "don't want to think of themselves as profoundly mentally ill," and thus will sometimes deny the seriousness of their situations. Certain conditions can also distort patients' perspectives: the manic patients tend to have extreme denial, the paranoid ones have misperceptions, and the depressed ones have feelings of doom and self-blame. Those responsible for taking care of such patients must be careful to make their own judgments accordingly. "There will be disagreements between clinicians and patients about what the truth is and sometimes [the patients are] right," Dr. Sledge said. 

A little under a week after entering the Hospital, Michael met with Dr. Millman, who told him, without missing a beat, that he would not be going back to school but would be sent home. Michael protested, as did his mother and even his college dean. The doctor agreed to confer with the rest of the team and reconsider, but they stuck with their initial decision. "I was really angry and upset for a good two months after," Michael wrote me. The doctors "did confer with both my therapist and psychiatrist, and Dr. Milstein and [the social worker] at the hospital, but it still seems wrong. The decision rested upon the whim of two people I spent less than an hour




**Title: Yale's Psychiatric Hospital: A Necessary Evil?**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
with between them." Michael met them so 
briefly that he wasn't even sure of their 
names. 

The decision is made in the "best inter-
ests of the patient," said Dr. Sledge. He agrees 
that the notion that the patient doesn't know 
what is in her best interest is "kind of pater-
nalistic. But I would rather err on this side 
than on rhe side of neglect. As a physician 
this will always be my bias." 

Michael is currently in the process of 
applying for readmission to Yale which, Dr. 
Siggins emphasizes, is nothing like applying 
for the first time. "We generally anticipate 
that all students will be coming back," she 
said. Flora also took time off, but on a leave 
of absence, rather than on medical leave. She 
spent last semester with her aunt, working 
full-time to help pay for medication and 
appointments with a psychiatrist and a social 
worker and for medication 
all told, a sum 
of $500. Flora did this voluntarily, 
but Michael was forced to pay for his 
treatment during his year off, "plac-
ing a great strain on my family finan-
cially," he said. 


"I needed to go off all these medica-
tions, and I couldn't do that outside of the 
Hospital," she said, a fact which she and her 
psychiatrist, who is not associated with 
UHS, agreed upon. After a day or so, space 
at the Hospital opened up: There was no 
need for an emergency UHS visit, or an 
ambulance ride under restraints. "I took a 
taxi," she said simply. 

Paige, drained of medications, was 
tremendously depressed upon her entrance 
to the hospital. At "times she could hardly get 
out of bed. After two weeks, she didn't want 
to leave. "My insurance kicked me out. I 
was scared to go." She called the Hospital a 
"first-rate place" and was very happy with 
the team of people attending to her, from · 
Dr. Milstein to her nurse, and even "down to 
the medical student on my case." Last sum-
mer, U.S. News & World Report ranked the 
hospital as the seventh best psychiatric hos-
pital in the nation, and the fourth best in the 
northeast (the ranking was computed "sole-
ly on reputation" by sending surveys to ran-
domly-selected psychiatrists). 

Because she was there over the summer, 
Paige didn't have to face the committee that 
can force medical leave. She ended up fol-
lowing her doctor's advice of taking a year 
off anyway, simply declaring a leave of 
absence and retaining the right to come back · 
to Yale the following year, no questions 
asked. 

Paige said she could understand, 
though, why some students hated their expe-
riences at the Hospital. "I suspect that the 
fact that some visits are involuntary and the 
fact that students face geuing kicked out of 
Yale lead to people's anger towards. the 
Hospital." She agreed as well, that some stu-
dents are sent there who don't need to be 
there. "[Mental hygiene] is really quick to 
hospitalize. 
Sometimes people end up 
there 
not without reason 
but who don't 
need to be there. I went there really wanting 
to get better. I think that's not the case for 
some. And that could make you bitter. If you 
spend the whole time fighting the fact that 
you're there, it will make you more 
depressed." Even so, she was baffled to find 
some students describe it "as if it were as bad 
as Mexican prison." Paige only had one crit-
icism of the Hospital: "It's true. The food is 
bad." 

ot so long ago, Flora had a very bad 
weekend, but she, at least, had no one 
to fall back on. She was as depressed 
as she was the night she went to University 
Health, and then to the Hospital last year. 
"I felt actually suicidal," she said. "But I 
knew if I went to UHS they would have h~s­
pitalized me 
with good reason, in terms of 
liability. I couldn't hide it that I was suicidal, 
and in their viewpoint it ~ould have made 
sense. So I didn't go, and I just stared at my 
pills across the room for two days. Before, 
there were a couple of friends I'd call, but I 
know now they'd say I should be in the 
Hospital. So I just deal with it on my own." 

Though Dr. Sledge wouldn't comment 
on any specific cases, when presented with 
one similar to Flora's 
a composite of the 
dissatisfied ex-residents at WS2, those who 
hate or are afraid of the people who were sup-
posed to help them 
he said that at such a 
point, he didn't think the Hospital could do 
anything. Hopefully, he added, the student 
would still forge a strong relationship with a 
University· Health therapist. "I don't think 
for a moment that what we do is perfecr," 
said Dr. Sledge, "or that we don't do things 
that sometimes make people feel dehuman-
ized. I know we do. When it happens, it's 
because of safety concerns, not a sadistic 
urge. 
"That's a tragedy 
someone who's 
alienated, who needs care. It's something we 
should try very hard to correct." 


David Zax, a sophomore in Silliman 
College, is a Circukztion and Subsaiptions 





**Title: Chapel Square Mall: A Fourth Rebirth?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. ' 
. 
~ 
_ ...... 
ust past 6 p.m ... on a Wednesday afternoon, the Chapel Square 
Mall is empty and silent, save for the consistent and quiet hum of 
the ventilation 'system. Inside the windowless shell sit the ghostlike 
remnants of previous occupants part of a Foot. Locker sign, the fading, 
and chipped paint from the' Baby Boutique · still present in the 
building. But stenciling on the wall betrays the_ new plans: inside the 
.J: 
"'' 
courtyard, apartment numbers 
1, 2, 3 . are • marked on the bare 
metal' frames, and an idle crane sits on the floor reaching upwards like 
the escalators that once operated in its place . 


But there are also ·signs of. life in the 
building: new windows and a faint 
rustling behind the boarded .up store-
fronts and papered. windows. Dumpsters 
• 
are hauled away as the construction is 
completed. The • renovations - mark the 
space's fourth rebirth in three decades. A 
taxi driver, waiting next door at the 
Omni Hotel, is skeptical. "They_ tried this 
before", he says. "Who's gonna go ·there?. 
That's what they haven't figured out. 
Maybe it'll be Yale .. .it's not going to be 
, 
me. 


t a meeting with business owners 
' -
" 
and local officials last year, Lehr · 
Jackson, head of the development · _ 
team, was confident that New Haven was 
ready for this fourth coming of the. retail 
revolution. "Chapel Square ·will be located · _ 
in the heart of the triumphantly resur-
e 
' 
a · 
a 
0 
s,. 
• uropean 
• " 
ar 
gent Downtown New Haven," proclaimed the firm's webpage. 
Attached to his text, too, was an· artistic rendering of the "new lower 
Chapel," the ambitious re-development projects spearheaded by 
William Jackson Ewing (WJE). The new mall was to showcase upscale 
retail development, an outward facing food market, and well-known 
anchor stores, promised but unnamed. The firm envisioned Chapel 
Square as a "live, work and play destination" and, the website added, 
"Chapel Square will integrate a wide mix of shops, restaurants, sidewalk 
-1' 
-
cafes and a European fresh food market,'catering to a broad spectrum 
of area residents, employees _and visitors to the area." 'For over a year at 
national retail conferences and. expositions, .. the firm's marketing staff 
pushed this presentation--complete with mockup mall_ - touting the 
city, the market, and the project to reel in potential tenants. 


By any measure, both New Haven city officials and Yale administrators 
were happy. New Haven had landed a national development 
team with a portfolio of high profile projects such as Union Station in 
Washington D.C. and New York's Grand Central Station. New Haven 
was finally slated to "tie together the historic campus of Yale University, 
the Broadway shopping corridor, the surging residential Ninth Square, 
and Downtown's renowned theater and arts district." The mall, one of 
the biggest eyesores in the downtown area and the behemoth foil to the 
quaint Yale-managed boutiques of upper Chapel Street, - was finally 
. ready for its facelift. 


The Chapel Square Mall, 160,000 square feet of enclosed shopping 
space, opened as part of New Haven's new wave of development began 
in the 1960s. In 1965, it was a New Haven dream-come-true: an urban 
shopping complex, with department stores like Macy's and Malley's. It 
was no longer necessary to visit two, three or four specialty shops. 
Because the mall contained 
· 
under one roof, early advertisements promised escape from the whims of Northeastern weather. 


A few years after its completion, the project began to falter. In 
1972, mounting debts incurred by the development team caused a 
shakeup in the mall's ownership. At the same time, competition from 
new suburban mega-malls and a population decline in the inner city 
led to a drastic fall in sales throughout the downtown market. Rising 
crime in the 1980s presented another hurdle. Malley's closed its doors 
in 1982, and in 1993 Macy's too left for greener pastures. Today, the 
Macy's building still sits vacant, a shell of the old embossed logo presiding over a crumbling door. 


In all that time, the Mall 
has 
undergone 
several 
attempted 
improvements. 
Besides three mini-renovations and leasing drives, it saw 
a 1997 revitalization effort in 
conjunction with the then-
new Omni Hotel New Haven . 
Baltimore developer David 
Cordish, the man behind the 
renovation, 
envisioned an 
interior passage to link the 
hotel to the markets, much 
like the hugely successful 
Chicago Omni Hotel and 
shopping complex, also by. 
Cordish. By the time New 
Haven's Omni opened, however, the proposed passage was 
already shut, and remains so today. 


So far, attempts to resurrect Chapel Square Mall have all fallen 
short 
and most experts are not surprised. ''I've been dubious that 
there was sufficient market for retail [in that space] for 30 years," said 
Alexander Garvin, commissioner on the New York City Planning 
Commission and professor of Urban Planning and Management at Yale 
"There is not a lot of demand there currently. There have to be many 
more people - residents, office workers or people coming into town. 
What you need is a market and people to fill up the space." 


Over the past ten years, downtown New Haven has experienced an 
economic boom 
led, many say, by Yale's drive to focus energy and 
money in the areas around campus. After years of fiscal austerity in the 
1980s, the Yale of the 1990s injected the overflow from its burgeoning 
endowment into the city, buying up property in three areas: Broadway, 
Chapel Street and Science Hill. 


Since the beginning of President 
Levin's term, much of the property closest to campus has changed 
hands: from local owners to the Yale corporation. Currently, Yale owns 
the majority of the area two square miles outside of central campus, not 
only in the key Chapel and Broadway areas but also south of campus 
in the Audubon area and along the artery that connects central campus 
with the medical school. Yale's involvement and investments, however, 
drop off rapidly just blocks from the residential colleges. 


That a prestigious firm such as WJE would develop property out-
side of the traditional hot zones surprised some. Still, Michael Morand, 
Vice President of the Yale Office of New Haven and State Affairs, 
declared it a natural progression of the investment that Yale and the city 
had been making in the downtown area. "There is no city in 
Connecticut that is doing nearly as well as New Haven is. The fact of 
continuing private investment speaks to its strength," he said. 


The actual development team that was slated to be involved with 
the project was picked by an ad-hoc selection committee composed of 
local city officials, among them Anthony Rescignio, director of the 
Chamber of Commerce; Scott Healy, director of the Town Green 
Special Services District; representatives · from the Mayor's office; local 
business owners; and Bruce Alexander, the director of the Yale Office 
of New Haven and State Affairs. "We chose the developers based upon 
some pretty dynamic presentations, with WJE head and shoulders 
above the others. It was exciting to see the initial architectural render-
ings, and the letters of intent," said Scott Healy. 


ut things began to go downhill quickly. The original financier for 
the plan withdrew, leaving a void in the funding that was filled 
by Lubert Adler partners, a Philadelphia-based real estate invest-
ment group. David Nyberg, a Lubert Adler employee, is also the head 
of a city development firm called Chapel Street LLC, located in New 
Haven. "David Nyberg and Lubert Adler stepped in to make the pro-
posal possible. The committee was very happy with the decision that 
was made," said Healy. Neither Nyberg and Lubert Adler officials 
responded to repeated emails and calls requesting comment. 


Despite the new funding, the plan still drew its critics. In 2003, 
the Mall's previous tenants 
local merchants such as Cross Flava 
Records 
sued WJE over unlawful eviction. Though WJE ultimately 
prevailed, the confrontation brought the project to a standstill for 
almost five months and also soured public opinion on the project. The 
suits reinforced an old line of criticism: at what cost to the local popu-
lation was this project advancing, and for whom was the redeveloped 
mall being created? Philosophical questions aside, WJE's actions were 
legal. The leasing documents for these businesses show that they were 
operating under public subsidy; their rent did not even cover the build-
ing's utilities. According to Scott Healey, ''Any of these businesses that 
had a viable business plan would be able to find space elsewhere in 
downtown, at market rates." 


Throughout the summer, when the first new retail tenants had been 
scheduled to open, the project remained in a deadlock. Though Yale 
sent representatives to the committee that picked the development 
group, Yale news releases about the project were nowhere to be found. 
New Haven local news rarely covered its 
progress. -Then, in a January 2004 interview -
with 
the 
New 
Haven 
Register, 
Henry 
Fernandez, the mayorial office's economic 
development czar, broke the news: everything 
had fallen apart. The WJE development team 
was no longer a principal player in the project. 
Gone too was any mention of the plan from 
the WJE webpage that had earlier heralded 
Chapel Square as the number one upcoming 
site under development. And by January 2004, 
the date originally set for completion, the space 
still sat mostly vacant, in stark contrast to the 
bustling crowds filling the glass-fronted atrium 
in the WJE brochure. "The people who were 
on the committee were not kept in the loop 
about how the plans progressed," said Healey. 


Two people close to the project, who prefer not 
to be named, said they had felt growing impatience from Lubert Adler in the face of a weakened national retail market. In the intervening 
months the local political scene had changed as 
well. Controversy over the fate of the block 
directly adjacent to Chapel Square likely played 
a role in the Chapel development. While one side of the original site 
faces the hustle and bustle of the New Haven shopping district, the 
other side faces the. soon-to-be demolished Coliseum and the dilapidated Macy's complex. According to sources involved with the development process, "WJE grew 
increasingly 
interested 
in 
acquiring and developing this 
attached site as well. 


The city had other plans. In 
1999, Mayor John DeStefano 
requested state funding to move 
Gateway Community College 
from Long Wharf to downtown. "The future of the site 
directly adjacent to it was in 
doubt. "WJE couldn't get the 
city to commit to even street 
level retail if they moved 
Gateway in," said Healey. This 
would effectively isolate the 
new retail in an island 
separating it from other properties, 
and walling it in between two 
colleges. College students, by 
most counts, are not ideal cus-
tomers. "The issue is not 
whether or not Gateway brings 
the right type of clientele downtown. Looking at Bridgeport or 
Hartford there is no increase in 
the business in the area right around the college. Yale students, too, are 
not the greatest customers," said Healey. The city saw the Gateway project as only a small piece of a larger plan. According to Roland Lamar, 
the Mayor's press secretary, DeStefano "wanted to use this to secure 
money towards multiple projects ... moving the college downtown, 
bringing in the Long Wharf Theatre, and paying for the demolition of 
the Coliseum." The Mayor's office and economic development team, 
led by Henry Fernandez, aimed for a holistic redevelopment of the city. 


"There is going to be 
a better campus for 
Gateway. We think 
it will also make 
going 
to 
college 
more attractive for 
our 
residents. 
Similar to the num-
ber of people who 
chose Yale over, for 
example, Dartmouth 
based on seeing New 
Haven, 
[students] 
might look at the 
_ 
new Gateway and 
make 
decision 
based on that," said 
Lamar. 


current 
development, 
without 
involvement of the 
nationally reputed 
"WJE, has taken a 
different focus now 
that Nyberg is at its helm. He wants to try something new and previously untested in the downtown area: sacrificing the space earmarked 
for retail to increase the amount of residential space. This is appropriate considering the previous work done by the developers; while WJE



**Chapel Square Mall: A New Beginning?**
**Author: Chaitanya Mehra**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
had a primarily retail portfolio, Nyberg is primarily a residential devel-
oper. Some of his best-known local projects include the apartments 
above the Palace Theatre and the properties on College Street. "I was 
intrigued by the idea of housing; the notion of turning the office build-
ing into housing seemed to be a promising and interesting one," said 
Garvin. "It was the first scheme that thought about downtown resi-
dential use." 

Still the current plan is not universally praised. According to neigh-
bors, it is being organized without ·a grand plan for design; no architect 
is listed on the forms filed with the city for zoning changes. While the 
previous plan had centered on changing the very fabric of the mall-
turning it "inside out" and cutting through to extend the Shubert 
Arcade through the building the current design will keep the mall's 
basic design intact. If the previous proposal was open-heart surgery, this 
is a mere band-aid. Healey sees this as a problem. "The second story on 
the Temple and Chapel corner is a office space for [Nyberg's] purpos-
es," he said. The concrete shell is not much different. What is needed 
is strong architectural vision. If there is one on the project, he's being 
paid to work from the inside out rather than the outside in." Even 
without a strong design vision, the building has already opened doors 
and laid out a welcome mat. 
elc< , ..... to the new Chapel Square" says ilie receptionist at 900 
Chapel Street. While her warmth may seem a bit premature, 
there will certainly be something new to see when students 
return to New Haven in the fall. The fourth development will mark the 
end of four decades of hope for a downtown mall. The resulting buiJd-
ing will be much like other city apartments, with housing above and 
retail units on the ground floor. What will not return is the airy inner 
atrium, the floors of retail and the very idea that spawned American 
mall growth: enclosed, climate-controlled space. If the new plan suc-
ceeds, it will mark the first time that Chapel Square has achieved eco-
nomic success. According to Douglas Rae, Yale Professor of 
Management and Political Science and author of City, a recent book 
on urbanization in New Haven, "I do think there is potential, and that 
the right development of the mall will meet with market success." But 
for now the building is dark, empty and waiting 
an island in a city 
watching it for signs of movement. 
Chaitanya Mehra is a sophomore in Davenport College . 


**Yale's Tenure Track: A Professor's Perspective**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

remember saying yes, oh yes, this is a job 
I've wanted since I was seventeen years 
old," says Professor Vilashni Coop pan. 
That was six years ago, when she landed her 
first job: Assistant Professor of Literature at 
Yale University, her alma mater. "It was an 
incredible sense of arrival," she says. But at 
the end of this semester, she will leave her 
post at Yale to teach in the University of 
California system. "I think I speak for many," 
she said in a recent speech to the Women's 
Faculty Forum, "when I say that we want our 
dream jobs to deliver more than this. We 
· want to work somewhere where we matter 
and where we count." 

Cooppan always knew this day would 
come 
Yale had made that clear. "The insti-
tution leaves no room for surprise," she 
exp]ains. "They let you know that there is less 
than ten percent tenure rate for junior facul-
ty. You choose to come here knowing that." 
Yale's tenure positions usually go to acade-
mics who are already leaders in their fields 
and perhaps tenured elsewhere. To Cooppan, 
this tendency means that contributions she 
might make to the Yale comniunity, includ-
ing mentoring students and cooperating 
with colleagues to develop academic innova-
tions, will go unappreciated. "All of it is on 
your own time," she says. "I have been told, 
as have all my junior colleagues, that 'You 
should have said 'no' to whatever extra 
demands, courses, committees, program-
building initiatives, curriculum redesign 
projects, interdisciplinary seminars, etc. are 
placed on us and have gotten in the way of 
our 'real work.'" 

World Literatures, a course that Professor 
Cooppan designed from scratch, is an exam-
ple of a contribution she feels is underappre-
ciated. Since the course's inception, it has 
become a core requirement for the Literature 
major and has received rave reviews from stu-
dents. She smiles, "it was a pedagogical pro-
ject that led to some of the best 
I 
have done here and served as the basis for sev-
eral solid articles. The work that the institu-
tion considers peripheral irrigates the 'real 
work' 
the work that matters." 

tis common knowledge that Yale has high 
standards for its faculty, and emphasizes 
~e importance of research. In a recent 
article on the tenure process in The Yale 
Herald, History Department Chair Jon 
Butler is quoted as saying: "The University is 
committed to the advancement of knowl-
edge. And the advancement of knowledge 
comes from scholarship 
from research, as 
opposed to te;~ching." To achieve his goal, 
Yale hires only the best of the best: those who 
publish the most influential and respected 
books and papers in humanities, and those 
responsible for leading research in the sci-
ences. From the their perspective, it pays to 
make long term investments only in academ-
ic super stars. Such investments leave Yale's 
young professors fending for themselves in 
the shadows of their world-renowned col-
leagues. If, later in their careers, these junior 
faculty prove to be top scholars themselves, 
Yale can then give them atuactive tenure 



**The Tenure Track at Yale**
**Author: Evelyn Shih**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
offers.

A case in point is the career arc of
Professor Seyla Benhabib, who is currently
the director of the Ethics, Politics, and
Economics Department and a full tenured
professor. She was an assistant professor at
Yale for two years after graduating from the
Ph.D. program in Philosophy, then she left to
take a research fellowship in Germany. Upon
returning to America, she taught at Boston
and Harvard Universities for two years without
tenure. She was then tenured at SUNY
'
Stony brook, which led' to tenure at Harvard
in 1993 and eventually, in 2001, back at Yale.
In this case, the university was able to bring
her talent back to the
institution after her early
promise of excellence
came to fruition.
Yet while this system
benefits the goals of the
insitution, it is a grueling
process for the scholars
who seek job security.
The university runs on
the bottom line and cannot
make promises even
to its high-level employ-
ees, the professors. Many
junior faculty come to
Yale and leave frustrated.
Yale rarely hires within
t4e r~ks, a policy which
sets up a "glass ceiling"
for its junior professors.
fter five years of
teaching
and
research, Professor
·
Guillermo Irizarry is also
leaving Yale this spring.
He says that the amount
of research work expected of junior faculty is
an enormous burden. In order to get tenure at
any institution of higher learning in America,
an academic in the humanities needs to have
one book under his or her belt and another
near completion, as well as a sizable dossier of
academic papers published in respected journals. All this must be accomplished within
the four or five years before his or her case
goes up for review by a tenure committee. "It
means you don't have a life," Professor
Irizarry jokes painfully. At Ivy League institutions, "You not only have to walk on water,
but you need someone in your department to
argue.for and defend your work," he says.
Yale hires assistant professors for five to
•
six year contracts, at which point promotion
to associate professor depends on an assessment. But unlike many state universities, Yale
does not offer associate professors tenure.
Instead it considers them mere junior faculty.
Only after a faculty member has taught for at
least ten years is he or she eligible to be hired
as a full tenured professor.
When a department committee decides to
grant a faculty member full professorship, the
decision is immense and political, as it entails
an investment of several million .dollars over
· the course of twenty to twenty-five years.

Drafting these senior faculty lines, or full professors tenure tracks, is extremely difficult. As
a result, academics who study marginal topics
can face long odds in seeking tenure. "For
example," Irizarry says amiably, "we are in the
Literature Department, and we are all senior
faculty deciding whether to give a certain
junior faculty member tenure. They are the
absolute expert in the literature of a remote
island in the Caribbean, but it doesn't have .
much to do with your area of expertise, or ·
mine. It's not a particularly hot topic . . Why
should we create a tenure line for him? Unless
someone argues passionately for his case." On
this point, Cooppan agrees. In her view, this
trend of conventionality is hostile to the
innovative, cutting edge scholarship of many
brilliant young academics. Such was the case
for Henry Louis Gates, Jr. Currently a leading
scholar in African American Studies and a
tenured professor at Harvard, he was once a
junior professor at Yale. Untenured here, he
left to teach at Cornell University.


Early cases of tenure, where junior faculty
members are actually promoted, make up
only a small percentage of Yale's tenure
appointments each year. The dominant practice by far, he explains, is to hire academics
who are "at the high point in their careers,
with established reputations." This is common knowledge to junior faculty like him
and Cooppan, who chose to leave for more
advanced, secure positions at other universities even before
being reviewed by
Yale's initial pro-
motion committee.
To Cooppan,
it is not only one
of job security.
"Much of what I
want to do, I can
do better elsewhere," she says.
In addition to creating
courses, she
works with cultural
houses as a minority professor and participates
in
the
Women's Faculty
Forum.
But
instead of being
satisfied with her
engagement, she
feels spread thin.
"I'm at a stage in
my work where I
want to
invest
energy in an institution and have it recognize
that work from the beginning." For Yale
junior faculty, there is "no indication that
someone has invested in us for the. long haul,
- and we can only learn the lesson of our transience." A particular disappointment for her,
having been a Yale undergraduate herself, was
that the university does not value its faculty
the way it does its students. "When you're an
undergrad, it really is all about you. When
you're a graduate student, or a,junior professor, that's no longer the case. And that's kind
of sad .... you're told to keep your head down
and get your work done. Yale can't keep banking on drawing people who choose, perhaps
foolhardily, not to keep their heads down."
Another strong draw of the UC system,
where she will teach this fall is its "family
friendly initiative." As the mother of two
young children, Cooppan appreciates the five
year leave that UC offers. The UC system
also actively encourages the increase of
female faculty by providing ·comprehensive
day care.


Recently, the Women's Faculty Forum
(WFF), of which Vilashini and Seyla are members, has pushed for greater understanding
of the woman's role in academia. "There is
a price one pays as a woman," she told me.
"It is the most difficult between the ages of
thirty and forty, with the biological clock
ticking. And at the same time, from thirty-
five to thirty-eight, that's when one comes up
for tenure." Benhabib, however, emphasized
the need for hard statistics before drawing
conclusions. The WFF is currently creating a
task-force to gather data on women at Yale.
In her opinion, an institution of higher learning can only gain by eradicating needless
obstacles for women. "As the director of EP
& E," she said, "it is increasingly difficult to
find someone to serve as the director of
undergraduate studies, because it is regarded
as a dead-end administrative job by most
junior faculty, especially the men. Women
are generally
better
citizens.
Her
conclusion
is
that
many
more
women
junior
faculty
volunteer
for these
tasks,
many of
which the
university
does not
reward.
"Yale
tenure
from within the ranks," she criticizes. "There
needs to be discussion at the very top administrative levels: are there aspects of the tenuring procedure that are not working? Is the
current procedure accomplishing the tasks it's
designed for? The fact is that we're having our
best junior faculty stolen, and we're wasting
time
resources hiring new people over and
over.
faculty have
reason to be
hopeful. "At
least there is
a
now,
forum,"
she
says in reference
to the
WFF.
"The
institution
still does not
make it easy
to be a junior
faculty member
here, but
at least there
is a place to
discuss these
questions.


Vilashini Cooppan and her two kids


One has to
start the discussion." Cooppan, for her part,
notes that one of the problems with initiatives
like the
WFF is
that they
rely
on
and students, all
of whom
cycle
through
Yale and
leave
within
four
to
ten years.
Powerful
thrusts
from the
grassroots
level run
out
of
steam
after only a few years, and responsibility falls
to the next cycle of leaders to continually
push for negotiations. "At a point," she predicts, "it will be too costly for Yale to keep
cycling in this way."
Irizarry believes that the university has an
ultimately hierarchical culture, one reluctant
to give support to those
low on the ladder. "I don't
want to imply that this is a
plot to oppress junior faculty,
because it's not. Yale
isn't stingy, but it is interested in having the best,
now. It can outpay most
other universities for their
senior faculty, and can
even make pre-emptive
offers. . . Let them leave,
then let them come back
when they prove themselves. That is Yale's general
attitude."
Will Professors Irizarry
and Cooppan be back at
Yale as senior faculty ten
years from now? As far as
Yale is concerned, the
jury's still out. And for current
undergrads who
aspire to professorship, it's
unclear whether the path
ahead will be easier going
even walking in
their formidable footsteps.

Evelyn Shih is a junior in
Silliman College.


**The Yale University Art Gallery Renovation**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 30**

To the casual passer-
by,
the southern
face of Louis Kahn's
Yale University Art Gallery
(YUAG) looks the same as
ever: its unrelenting brick
fas;ade
moves
along
Chapel Street · with the
authority it has commanded for over fifty years. But
around the corner on York
Street,
glass
wall ·
reveals a major excavation
taking place. The building's four stories resemble
an
archeological
site.
Kahn's famous tetrahedral
ceiling
weighs
down
upon
dusty
expanse, broken only by
concrete pillars, the occasional ladder, and rows of
glowing work-lights.
The YUAG renovation
is the first phase in a
$94 million capital campaign to transform the
Chapel Street arts area.
When the entire project is
complete, the Art History
Department
will
be
housed in a new building
on York Street, and the
Gallery will reclaim the
space
Egerton
Swartwout's
Old
Art
Gallery, built in 1928, and
Street Hall, built in 1867,
for teaching galleries and
object study classrooms.
Among Gallery staff, it had long been known
that the Kahn building was in need of an
improvement. Because it had never undergone a full scale renovation, the building was
unable to meet some of the technical
demands of a twenty-first century museum.
More importantly, the project needed to
restore Kahn's building to match his original
conception. Kahn had intended the Gallery
to be open expanse, but over the years storage
space and offices carved into the space.
When the Kahn building . reopens its
doors in 2005, it will have more exhibition
space than ever, establishing its primary role
as a museum rather than a multipurpose
space used for galleries, classrooms and
offices.
As Louisa Cunningham, a Deputy
Director of YUAG, explained while she
walked from one expansive floor to the next,
the renovation will "restore the building to
Kahn's original vision." With a renewed
emphasis on Kahn's principal themes of light
and structure, the renovation will allow viewers to appreciate how the interior affects their
relationship to the art.
To understand the
importance of the
current
renovation, one needs to look at
the history of the building's design: the evolution
of Kahn's ideas and
their degradation over
time.
Originally,
University had selected
Philip Goodwin as the
designer for the new
gallery on the corner of
York and Chapel. The
first modern building on
campus, it would mark a
major departure from the
neo-gothic towers that
dominated
University. Goodwin had
co-designed New York's
Museum of Modern Art
1939,
one
Manhattan's
first
International Style buildings, and Yale wanted to
bring this sleek modernism to its campus.
Although Goodwin had
made preliminary sketches
for the Gallery in
1941, he grew frustrated
with the project's stops
and starts and quit in
1951.
Louis Kahn, based at
a firm in Philadelphia,
began lecturing at Yale's
architecture school in
1947. He went abroad as a fellow of the
American Academy in Rome when the
school, in conjunction with the architecture
department, asked him to take over the
Gallery designs. Kahn, over fifty years old
and still without a major commission, quickly
accepted the offer.
Kahn inherited not only the basic rectangular scheme of the Gallery, but a host of
requirements. Still, the ultimate design was
distinctly his own. The closed brick facade
Chapel
Street
departed
from
Goodwin's scheme, as did the glass curtain




**Title: Louis Kahn's Yale University Art Gallery**
**Author: Charlotte Howard**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
walls on the west and north sides of the 
building. Like a good modernist, Kahn put 
functional concerns first and transformed 
Goodwin's three stories into four in order to 
maximize floor space. But the architect's 
most 
striking 
contributions, 
• • 
as many crlttcs 
have noted, are 
evident in the 
Gallery's interi-
or. Kahn want-
ed to make the 
structure of his 
building clear 
to the viewer, so 
he left the raw 
concrete 
sup-
ports 
of the 
building unfin-
ished 
and 
undisguised. 

The brick walls on the building's south side 
were clearly decorative and allowed inches of 
air to flow between them and the ceiling. 
Overhead, an innovative tetrahedronal con-
crete housed light fixtures, air ducts, and 
electrical wiring, all clearly visible to the 
viewer below. When · the Gallery finally 
opened in 1953, Kahn told a reporter at_ the 
Yale Daily News, "I believe in frank architec-
ture. A building is a struggle, not a miracle, 
and the architect should acknowledge this." 
Wtth this in mind, Kahn sought to 
imbue the gallery with a unique balance of 
function and aesthetics. His design empha-
sizes light and fluid movement through 
space: "I hate claustrophobia," Kahn told the 
YDN reporter. In the 2000 YUAG Bulletin, 
Associate Dean of the School of Architecture 
Alexander Purves, explained that Kahn's plan 
departed from Goodwin's because it concen-
trated all the closed spaces (stairs, toilets, ele-
vator shaft) in the center of the building. 
This left the perimeter of each floor open, 
allowing light to stream through the glass 
exterior and flood the space. 

The geometry of the tetrahedronal ceil-
ing is echoed by the concrete cylinder of the 
stairwell and links the lateral movement 
within each floor to the vertical rise of the 
building. The steps aspire up a triangular 
path towards a terrazzo triangle floating 
above the column on a shallow ring of win-
dows. The triangles hovering above enabled 
Kahn to overcome the spatial requirements of 
a low ceiling to create a continuous sense of 
upward movement. 

Kahn's innov-
auve 
pogo-
panels" (panels 
pressed between 
the ceiling and 
floor on pogo- · 
like springs) can 
be 
moved to 
accomodate 
exhibitions and 
create rooms as 
needed. Vincent 
Scully 
noted 
that the panels 
served an aes-
thetic purpose 
as well, separat-
ing the art from the frame and making object 
more "intensely alive." The pogo-panels 
themselves, set on skinny legs, seem almost 
anthropomorphic, 
active agents in Kahn's 
space, much like the viewers themselves. 

set on the panels separate from the concrete 
structure and become active agents in Kahn's 
immense space, with the tetrahedrons contin-
uing ever onward and light sweeping above, 
below, and around the panels, the art stands 
still and encourages the viewer to stand still 
with it. After some time the sweeping move-
ment of light and air impels the viewer on to 
the next panel, then after some time, to the 
next, pausing at each stop to identify with the 
art. Within Kahn's open galleries, the panels 
encourage students to forge intimate connec-
tions with objects Scully calls "protected from 
barbarism and from time." 

n practice, fe'w, if any, of the building's 
floors have ever experienced Kahn's imag-
ine4 openness. When the Gallery opened, 
it was dominated by .the temporary walls for 
dassrooms, · studios, storage facilities, and 
offices. The fourth floor was entirely unob-
structed but was used as a drafting room for 
architecture students instead of exhibition 
space. In 1963 many of the facilities were 
moved to the new Art and Architecture 
building, but the Gallery remained cluttered 
with offices and conservation labs. Ironically, 
as Scully, Purves, and Cunningham have all 
noted, Kahn's movable panels did not make 
the display of art more fluid 
rather, they 
allowed its inhabitants to cannibalize the 
space more easily. The architect had once 
boasted to the YDN, "A good building is one 
which the client cannot destroy by wrong use 
of space. Almost all the partitions ·are mov-
able, so whenever the space is needed for 
something else, they can fit the space to suit 
their need without ruining anything." 

Although the panels did enable the Gallery to 
adapt to suit the changing needs of students 
and staff, they had a disastrous impact on the 
building's character and effect. 

Perhaps the most alarming desecrations 
of the space have occurred when curators 
have fai:led to understand Kahn's intentions. 
Andrew Carduff Ritchie, who came from 
MoMA to serve as director of the Yale Gallery 
in 1957, was the first to manipulate the pan-
els wrongly. In The Art Museums of Louis I 
Kahn, Patricia C 
· gs Loud suggests that 
Ritchie, "concerned about the increasing 
numbers of works of art he had to 
display ... set .about 'remodeling' the Yale 
Gallery to create a more neutral effect, more 
like that in the Museum of Modem Art." 

Ritchie installed white walls to trade the 
building's openness for more definite rooms, 

and used smooth panels to hide much of the 
unfinished concrete so essential to the build-
ing's raw effect. Even the concrete staircase, 
one of Kahn's principal elements, was con-
cealed from view. 

Over the years, the cylinder's panels have 
been removed, but the offices and storage 
space continue to create a sense of Kahn's 
hated claustrophobia. The southern brick 
wall was hidden behind the walls of a gift 
shop, and black screens spanned the crucial 
space between the pogo-panels and the floor. 
In 1962, Scully bemoaned the building's mis-
use but offered some consolation: "some day 
it will obviously be rectified." 

That ch,ty, apparently, is today, though 
the process began informally some time back. 
Pointing 
to 
an 
exposed 
brick 
wall, 
Cunningham credited Mary Gardner Neill, 
Gallery director in the early 90s, as "one of 
the first people to start chipping away at the 
archeological layers" of the building. "Over 
the years," she added, "as we've taken the 
walls down from around the cylinder, taken 
the wall down from the south brick wall, 
curators keep seeing how the installations are 
only improved as we return [the Gallery] clos-
er to what Kahn envisioned." 

Though the basement and fourth floors 
will still contain some offices and storage 
space, the renovated Gallery will actually be 
closer to "Kahn's original vision" than it was 
in 1953. Unrestricted exhibition space will 
span much of the first and all of the second 
and third floors. Most imponantly, the pogo-
panels will be used more thoroughly within 
these open spaces. In his article in YUAG's 
2000 Bulletin, Alexander Purves explained 
that after Ritchie's renovations of the late 
1950s, " ... never again did [Kahn] allow the 
primary spatial experience of his architecture 
to be at the mercy of secondary panition loca-
tions." The pogo-panel, the very thing that 
enabled hacking and clutter, when used cor-
rectly, will make the museum a unique 
expression of light and structure. In its purest 
incarnation, each floor of Kahn's building 
would be an unobstructed expanse, populated 
only by these panels, the artWork, and the 
viewers themselves, with the ceiling and cylin-
der guiding us steadily upward. By next sum-
mer, students will be able to visit the museum 
once again, and to experience Kahn's space as 
never before.


**Title: An Interview with a Ugandan Presidential Candidate**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
<>rt:Mao, 36, a leading advocate for human rights who hails from 
war-torn Northern region of Gulu, Uganda, has spent the past 
nine months studyi,ng as a World Fellow at Yale University. When he 
returns to Uganda this june, where he is currently serving a second term 
in Parliament, Mao will take on a new challenge: campaigning for the 
Presidency in 2006. For someone who began his political career with thir-
teen dollars in his pocket, challenges are nothing new. Having wtinessed 
the atrocities of genocide in his own country, Mao 
believes Afticans can teach the world a lesson in the 
fight against terrorism: empathy. The following are 
excerpts from an interview with The New Journal. 
What is the next presidential candidate for 
Uganda doing here in New Haven? 
I've also been wondering~ Whenever I'm 
invited to talk to people, I end by saying, "What's 
a nice guy like me doing at Yale?" I believe that it 
is important if you have a big mission ahead of 
you, to sort of take a step back. Even Jesus. first 
took forty days in the desert to reflect on his life's 
mission. I'm not Jesus, but I have a mission. I 
decided long ago that before I ran for the office of 
president of Uganda, I would first build a sufficient knowledge base, 
and the World Fellows Program has offered me that opportunity. 


You have been described as a "hero, a kind ofsuperstar for the youth. " 
What is your vision for Uganda, and what is it about this vision that 
speaks to younger people? 
My message appeals to the youth because I tell them that, "The 
earlier generations have m~sed up so much, let's understand why they 
messed up, and then our mission is to correct." And to a large extent, 
the young age at which I went for nationalist elections [helps]. I was 
twenty six when I offered myself for the first election; I lost, which is 
a good thing. I think if you think you're such a hot stuff, you're .horns 
should be pruned a bit. And thank God I got my pruning very early 
in life. 
The young people see me as a spokesman for their generation,. a 
kind of voice. I have reassured them that Uganda is our country. I have 
told them that though we are many tribes in Uganda, we are united by 
poverty, we are united by the lack of water in our villages, we are unit-
ed by illiteracy. 


Also, the views I've expressed in parliament: In 1997, I was a lone 
voice calling for a peaceful settlement for the conflict in the north. I 
thought I was actually digging my political grave. I was saying things 
which must have offended so many of the members. I told them we 
needed to talk to people who were killing our people. But I felt I was 
morally bound to advocate for peace. To stand up, express a view and 
be met with jeers and scorns 
that was trying for me. [But] hardly 
four years later, the Parliament turned around and started pressuring 
the government to talk to the rebels. 


I guess the stronger and bigger the odds that you overcome, the 
more admiration you win. That's the only way I can explain my so-
called heroism. 


What new perspectives, specifically, have you gained as a World 
Fellow? Have any affected or changed the views you originally held? 
. 
Two come to mind. The first is the inequality 
within America. From my general studies, I used to 
know about inequalities between nations. Living 
here in New Haven, I have reflected more on 
inequalities within nations. I have realized that 
America has a lot of challenges in bridging the social 
gaps between those who have, those who have not, 
and those who have little. So that is one thing that 
I go back with: a new look at America's social 
inequalities. 
The other thing is that there is no unanimity. 
on the face that America represents to the world. I 
used to think that every American thought like 
President Bush: you're either with us, or with them. 
A black and white policy where when America 
intervenes they ask the first person they meet, 
. "Who are the bad guys and who are the good guys?" 
I go back to Uganda convinced that Bush is not America. And 
Americans are not Bush. I go back convinced that there is a vigorous 
debate in this country. 


When you infot med your colleagues and your constituency that you 
would be coming to the United States to participate in this program, how 
was the news received? 
What flattered my voters most was the fact that I was chosen from 
so many Africans. I guess that made them feel that, "Well, other peo-
ple have confidence in our choice." But, in life, people also know that 
where you stand determines the level of your influence. Becoming a 
World Fellow puts me in touch with people who are very influential. I 
get emails from people in my constituency, and they say, "Why dont 
you bring the issue of Northern Uganda to the attention of the 
Security Council?" And indeed, when the US Ambassador-to the UN 
came to speak to us, I pulled him aside and addressed him on that mat-
ter. My constituents therefore know that being a World Fellow puts me 
in a position where I can reach key decision makers. 


Yale has a track-record of c1"eating presidents, most notably the two 
current candidates for the US pres· 
What are your thoughts on this 
campaign, and how does the type of negative politicking he1-e compare to 
your anticipated presidential campaign in Uganda? 
People can get nasty in a campaign, basically because, in America, 
the campaigns are not really managed or run by the candidates. The 
people who choose the words and phrases that politicians say in front 
THE NEW jOURNAL 



**Title: An Interview with the Ugandan Politician**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
-
• •• 
of the voters are different. If Bush wins the next election, having scared 
Americans so much, the situation is going to be so disgusting, that 
people will wonder. And also, if Kerry wins the election, having told 
Americans that Republicans are, "Public Enemy Number One," that 
also is not healthy. So, what you need is a breed of politicians who are 
able to look for the common ground. In Uganda, that kind of [nega-
tive] politics also exists. People start bad-mouthing each other. 
Sometimes they get so personal. In the last campaign, the incumbent 
accused his challenger of being sick with AIDS. Well, the truth or not 
of it was not debated; but it showed how far people will go in order to 
win an election. The key way to look at the election, therefore, is to 
study human nature. And human nature is the same in America and 
the same in Uganda. 

In a recent article you wrote for 
The Yale Herald, you described how 
travel advisories for JYorthern Uganda 
usually raise more eyebrows than ques-
tions. What do you think accounts for 
this scarcity of demand for information? 

The media in America seldom 
focuses on Africa. It's either famine in 
Ethiopia, the refugees of Sudan, the 
death of dictator Idi Amin, or the war 
in the Congo. Now, the embassies in 
use 
-IS 
Mrica, they know everything that goes on in Uganda, and that's why 
they tell their citizens, "Don't go to ·Northern Uganda." But they don't 
go into the details. 

The media, it marches behind the strong political currents. In 
Uganda, since this current president took over in 1986, he has been 
hailed as a beacon of hope for Africa, he has been described as part of 
a new breed of Mrican leaders. The characteristic of this new breed was 
that they are very much pro-USA. So they have enjoyed a long hon-
eymoon where the USA has not criticized their policies. 

As a result [of these alliances], there is a distonion. In Nonhern 
Uganda, one million people are displaced; economic activity has come 
to a standstill; the HN AIDS infection rate is at thirty percent. Still 
the US government does not question our government's policy! Our 
government is an ally. So, while the Cold War era gave America the 
motivation to suppon thugs like Mbeki, the current war in Iraq is giv-
ing America the motivation to suppon dubious leaders in Africa, 
including our own. And that is why the travel advisories stop at say-
ing, "Don't go there." 

In the same article, you concluded by asking the world to act, and act 
now. What can Yale students do to help? 

At Amani Forum [The Great Lakes Parliamentary Forum on 
Peace], we cany out fact-finding missions. We could have two Yale stu-
dent interns, who can look at the situation. By having Yale Students 
visit conflict regions, and repon on what they see, in a language that 
APRIL 2004 
.. 
ert 
Americans can understand, is one way to help. 

The other way is for Yale students to write to their senators, and 
tell them the money they are sending in aid [to Uganda] is being used 
to fight wars. It has become an industry for removing guilt. You just 
give money to Mrica to . remove guilt. I think America should roll up 
its sleeves and get involved. Yale students can galvanize that pressure 
towards their senators and legislators. The other thing is for them to get 
interested in the issues. I think we need to care about people. 

Somebody said after the Rwandan genocide that if the 200 moun-
tain gorillas had been threatened with extinction, the world would have 
acted more. Instead, for months, people were dying in Rwanda. The 
younger generation ofYale, the "A-B40s" or, "Americans below forty," 
ofYale University, they need to have that feeling of kinship with human 
ID 
beings. Yale students need to start asking 
questions of their leaders. 

Do you think human rights can become a 
voting issue in this country, and in Uganda? 

Elections are very local, and unless the 
human rights issue is a local issue, they 
don't seem to resonate well. But I do think, 
for America, given its pre-eminence in the 
world today, human rights can become an 
issue. I do believe that we can also make 
human rights in Africa an issue. And the start-
ing point is to ask the candidates, what do you think? At the end of the 
day, my only advice to Yale studen~s is to reclaim that sense of outrage 
when things go wrong. We need outrage, outrage about human rights. 

It's not often in the American press that you hear opinions from 
African politicians on the so-called "global war on terrorism. " What are 
your views, and what do you see as Africa's role in the war on terrorism? 

It is our duty, as African leaders, to condemn terrorism. There is 
no place for terrorism in a civilized world. At the same time, it is criti-
cal that we look at the root causes of terrorism. The strategies of ter-
rorists, appear to be based on desperation. There is some deep-seeded 
anger. First, we must show that we understand. The role of sympathy 
·and empathy in diplomacy has been underestimated. There are a few 
things Africans can teach the world about conflict resolution. We must 
find a way to be a family again. Right now, I think many of the Arabs 
don't feel they are members of the world's families. There's a lot of prej-
udice. So, what can the weaker countries of the world do? They can 
teach the powerful countries the power of sympathy. 

You have been praised for your use of proverbs. Do you have a favorite 
proverb? 

I actually don't use proverbs a lot. I use stories. My favorite saying, 
though, is, "Whatever you do, do it as if it is impossible to fail." 


**Title: Tweed New Haven Regional Airport: A SimCity Approach to Air Travel**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 38**

The automatic sliding glass doors that 
lead to the main ' and only terminal 
ofTweed New Haven Regional Airport 
bear an ironically ferocious warning in bold 
red letters: STAND )3ACK. 

Though the 
maxim is certainly a necessary safety feature 
for the temperamental doors, the admonition 
seems applicable to the whole airport, not just 
its entrance. You do want to .. stand back" as 
you gaze inside Tweed, with its industrial 
brushstrokes of red and 
grey on the walls and 
floors. 

The airport's 
color scheme and the 
sheer absurdity of its petite 
frame make the building 
seem like it was meticulously 
fit together. from a few pieces of a Lego Set. 
You want to stand back from Tweed. Stand 
back and laugh. 

"Tweed is a farm," as one Pierson sopho-
more who recently visited the airport put 
it. The airport sort of jumps out of 
nowhere, as if it were placed 
with all the thought that goes 
into a left mouse click in the residential zone 
of a game of SimCity. Compared to New 
York's John F. Kennedy International Airport, 
which is over 4,930 acres .and boasts three 
enormous runways which range from 10,000 
to 14,572 feet in length, Tweed is 236 acres 
and has one runway which measures a measly 
5600 feet. Even as far as small airports go, 
Tweed is positively dinky. To get there you 
take modest residential side streets with 
names evocative of suburbia's pleasant green-
ery: Grove Street, Forest Street and Charter 
Oak Avenue. These are streets that normal-
ly take you to the grocery store or the clean-
ers, not to an airport. The route is marked by 
blue informational signs stamped with an air-
plane logo, which looks more like a slightly 
disfigured bird than a plane. Runways aside, 
the building itself might be smaller than a 
Connecticut bird sanctuary. This is a place 
where planes depart and arrive, but some 
Connecticut homes definitely show it up. Of 
course, most homes do not have baggage 
carousels (Tweed doesn't actUally have a real 
baggage carousel), or what seems to be 
Twec;!d's greatest asset: a colorful and plenti-
fully stocked Snapple vending machine.  

On a Saturday afternoon during the 
Connecticut public school spring break,· the 
only people in the lonely terminal were two 
idle uniformed workers manning the vacan_t 
ticket counter. The blankness of their expres-
sions suggested that thes~ employees were 
used to slow days. Currently, the only flights 
from Tweed go to Philadelphia. Who from 
New Haven needs to go to Philadelphia 
anyway? 

Apparently, 
corporate 
America. "We need an 
airport 
that 
can 
serve the cor-
porate com-
munity that needs to get in ... Get their busi-
ness done ... And get out and Tweed New 
Haven 
really 
has 
that," 
said 
Henry 
Fernandez, Economic Director of the City of 
New Haven in an aviation press release. And 
maybe this little airport really is needed: there 
were several dozen cars parked in Tweed's 
Long Term parking lot that day and even 
some empty spots at the attached Avis rental 
car facility. With the recent acquisition of 
Delta shuttle service and forthcoming flights 
to Washington-Dulles Airport from a nou-
veau airline called Independent, more people 
are warming up to the possibility of a New 
Haven airport, even if it does look like a joke 
from the outside. 

The project sparked a city-wide debate 
this year when additional money was 
required to expedite the renovations which 
Tweed has been undergoing almost continu-
ously since it opened in 1931. Naysayers dis-
missed this desperate final attempt to mod-
ernize Tweed as part of an 
n realistically 
utopian economic vision of New Haven. So 
when the city's generous contract with Tweed 
expired and technically ended funding 
efforts, no one expected Mayor John 
DeStefano to independently decide that if the 
New Haven business community could raise 
two million dollais, the city would commit 
another $900,000. "Given that we had laid 
off public service employees and raised taxes," 
said Ward One Alderman Ben Healey, "it 
seemed difficult to justify putting $900,000 
towards an airport." 

But eventually, after 
heated debates within the aldermanic cham-
ber, Healey came to support the airport. 
"There are no sure bets when it comes to 
something like Tweed Airport," he admitted .. 
But the prospect of economic development 
gave 
him 
reason 
enough to try and con-
vince fellow officials 
and 
skeptical 
con-
stituents of his opinion: 
"You've gotta give it a chance." 

Expanding Tweed is a gamble for 
New Haven, much in the same way 
that New Haven gambled on an exten-
sive urban development project in the 1950s: 
parking lots. Despite an extensive highway 
infrastructure, for the most part, those stayed 
empty. Will Tweed take off? Will those lone-
ly employees realize their vision of a terminal 
bustling with business associates hurriedly 
trying to catch a plane back to their home 
bases and Yale students traveling home on the 
holidays? Will Tweed's baggage carousels 
make their first substantial circuit? (Tweed 
doesn't acwally have baggage carousels.) Will 
Snapples tumble forth from the machine as 
quickly as they are snatched from a Yale Law 
School refrigerator? One can only hope that 
for the good of the New Haven community, 
those answers will all be, "Go fly." 

Romy Drucker, a freshman in Davenport 
College, is Research Diirector for TNJ. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
. . 
' 
• I. 
~ 
nit of 
u .' .·· . 
, •
.. 
-
' . -.. 
• • 
es. 
... ··-·• ••·••·• 
''"'" • ,,..,,., • ••· •••·.• ···• •·•·• • .,,, •· •·• . . •• • •••·· ..... ' ·•••••• 
• ••• • •• •• 
·•• • '' • ······••·· ·•· . ''"'''"''"'' •· ''" .. ' . ,.,,,., •••• ••.··•·• • ,,, • " '• ••• ••• •• 
•· •••·• ,,,., .. , 
' , ,.,, 
'"'' .,_, ••• '" .• 
,,. 
'"' •• • • •• ,. ' 
••• ••• 
v.• . 
. .. ····v· -· •·-• 
"' ,, 
"'' • • '' •·••• •• ., .•. , ... , 
, . . ,,, 
' . ' • ... 
, • ''' 
. 
ICDISI N 
. . ... G . : 
MG. AN.D 
\ 


