Publication date: 04/02
Volume 34, Issue 5

**Title: The Yale Police Department seeks to mend civic boundaries**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AT ONE IN THE MORNING ON FEBRUARY 17, 1991, a Yale sophomore named Christian Prince was shot dead on the steps of a church on Hillhouse Avenue. The murder-a botched robbery attempt, according to investigators-reinforced a belief already held by most members of the University community at the time: that the City of New Haven was a terrifying place to go to school. Yale's administration, under siege and increasingly wary of New Haven's national notoriety, responded with a slew of new security measures. Lighting was improved on dark streets, and 250 blue security phones were installed, positioned so that one of the neon bulbs marking a phone's location would be visible from nearly every point on campus. Most dramatically, the Yale Police Department underwent a complete overhaul. Within the next year, the size of the force increased by more than 50 percent from its pre-1990 level; by the end of 1992, there were 80 armed police officers on Yale's campus. 

But even as the University bolstered its fortifications against security threats, that year also marked a turning point of another sort. Facing a crisis in its relationship with New Haven and an epidemic of violent crime edging ever closer to campus, Yale reformulated its tactics and did something unexpected: Instead of further detaching itself from its surroundings, the University began to take a more active role in city affairs. Under the leadership of Yale President Richard Levin, who took office in 1993, Yale showed a heightened interest in the surrounding residential neighborhoods and commercial properties, and in New Haven's overall vitality. Instead of further building up its walls, it created porous borders-allowing, supporters claim, the University's positive influence to diffuse into the city around it: A decade later, the fruits of this effort are readily apparent. The areas around campus are, for better or worse, transformed, and the relationship between Yale and New Haven is flourishing as never before. 

This revolution in town-gown relations-with a corresponding change in the way Yale thinks of and protects its own boundaries-presents a new kind of challenge to the most recent incarnation of the Yale Police Department. With blurred borders came the need for a more active role in the community and a more holistic approach to security. Property acquisitions near campus demanded new patrol routes and increased vigilance. According to statistics the YPD has responded successfully: Since 1992, crime on campus has fallen by more than half, violent crime by almost two thirds. 

YALE POLICE OFFICERS HAVE FULL POWERS OF ARREST, the right to carry a weapon (and use it when necessary), and full jurisdiction over all of New Haven. They go through complete police training and accreditation and bear all the rights and responsibilities of regular city cops. For all intents and purposes, the YPD functions like any city police force, with one critical difference: Its primary allegiance is to the University, a private and exclusive entity within the city itself. The department is, in the words of University Secretary Martha Highsmith, under whose administrative and financial control it falls, a "private police force" with a broader public role. 

Among university police departments, this makes the YPO unique; no other campus police force can claim such extensive power or expansive jurisdiction. Yale Police Chief James Perrotti sees this difference as essential to his department's ability to serve at a school like Yale in a city like New Haven. "Other university's departments are restricted to campus," he explains. "But we could not do the job we do without the authority we have." 

In Perrotti's office, there hangs a framed poster from a lecture at the Yale School of Management by former New York City Police Commissioner Howard Safir. Safir, who led the effort to clean up New York City in the early 1990s, is an apostle of "community policing"-the idea that cops can best combat crime by focusing on relatively minor violations of the law, like jaywalking or property neglect, and proactively engaging the communities which they serve. Some observers have called this the "broken windows" theory; small signs of neglect lie, in an important sense, at the root of serious crime. Perrotti, for one, is a passionate devotee of the doctrine. Since taking over as Chief of the YPO in 1998 (after twenty five years as a member of the force), he has practiced his own version of "community policing" around the University. This spring, the YPD will begin construction of a new headquarters at a recently purchased site on Lock Street, straddling the campus's northern boundary and the edge of the Dixwell neighborhood. The move represents both an affirmation and test of Perrotti's approach. Though the new site is relatively close to the department's current home on Sachem Street-a crumbling brick house on a dead end driveway-the move will mean an entirely new kind of presence in a neighborhood that appears to have little to do with the University.