Publication date: 10/04
Volume 37, Issue 2

**Title: The Connecticut Reserves**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
HARLENE DERASMO WAS SHOCKED when her husband Dominick, a fueler in the 439m reserve unit, told her he was being sent to Iraq. "What do you mean you're going?" she exclaimed. "You have a desk job!"' 
The 439m, a New Haven based unit, is part of the Connecticut Army Reserve, which has approximately 5,000 members, 1,100 of whom are currently active, mostly in Iraq and Mghanistan. The principal mandate of the state Army Reserve is to protect Connecticut's "life and property," but its units can be called upon to defend the interests of the United States. Many reservists join the Reserve for personal fulfillment, educational benefits, or as a source of extra income, never actually expecting to serve overseas. Yet what may have once been a remote prospect is now a near certainty: Kimberly Hoffman of the Connecticut National Guard Family Program a state-funded support network for Connecticut troops explains that the question for guardsmen today "is nC?t SO much if you'll be deployed, as when you'll be deployed." 

After 18 months overseas, the 439m returned home in August. 
The soldiers describe a mythical land, blanketed in ancient seashells, where 130-degree heat is commonplace and sandstorms cloud the earth from morning until night. These Connecticut troops were sent to Southern Iraq, far from the zones of intense combat on which the media focuses. Mark DiSpirito, a specialist in Derasmo's New Haven-based unit, recalls the way ice melted in seconds flat, or how the heat sucked the moisture out of the shaving cream on his face before he was finished shaving. Chris Beckwith, remembers the influx of televisions to the South after Saddarn Hussein's capture. 
Most families in this region live in tents. To capitalize on the nighttime breeze, they lay carpets and sofas outside, rig lamps on wooden posts and watch their new televis\bns under the stars .. 

But the soldiers also speak of a darker side: of low morale, of the unshakable desire to be anywhere else. "What kept me going," Beckwith says, "was the idea of coming home when it's all over." The stress of living in close quarters and spending most of the day doing physical labor builds up quickly. "Some reach a boiling point," DiSpirito says. Establishing a co-existence with Iraqis was another challenge: "You're actually living in someone's backyard," DiSpirito notes. Beckwith says he started to become suspicious of everyone. His unit met one Iraqi who seemed hospitable to the troops but appeared the following week on CNN, gleefully burning an army hum vee. 

once soldiers are called to duty, their experiences divorce them from the lives of their families in Connecticut. Brief weekly phone calls and occasional emails are the only things bridging the more than six thousand miles. Meanwhile the families of these soldiers must also, in these all-too-brief communications, try to portray a glimpse of their own changed lives. 
notice of deployment is often abrupt: a soldier learns his unit has been called up three to four weeks before he is slated to depart. In Connecticut, with only a few bases and a dispersed corps of reservists, the harsh notice of departure can be especially surreal. One Connecticut unit, the 248m Engineer Company of Norwich, was called up on Valentine's Day. 

Although news of deployment can be abrupt, a soldier will often greet the announcement with flat banality. fu DiSpirito, a specialist in the 439'h, puts it, "If I have to go, I have to go." Even if not initially stone-faced, in time, soldiers habituate themselves to the separation. Irman Webb, a 1998 Yale graduate currently serving in Mghanistan, explains in an email that "after the initial gut-wrenching reality of being separated from those whom I love the most, I got into my routine and time is ticking by." 

When considering the vast consequences of war, the effect on soldiers rarely goes unmentioned. Less frequently discussed, however, are the effects of the battle abroad on families at home. The absence of a mother or father generates financial and physical burdens that exacerbate emotional ones. Spouses often take on second jobs to compensate for losses in income as deployed reservists transition from a day job to a monthly base pay of around $2,500. There are new costs as well: Beckwith racked up a $16,000 charge on a mobile phone he brought to Iraq to skirt the three-hour waits for public phones. Connecticut has fewer bases and a less-pronounced history of service than other states. Consequently, families often must confront the departure of a loved one without the support of those in similar situations. While DiSpirito was in Iraq, his wife Millie organized a support group of military families, while working two jobs. 

Laurie, the wife of a recently-deployed Connecticut Guardsman, missed little unexpected things. She needed to remember on her own "to renew the registration on the car, or cover the air conditioner for the cold weather." She also cites the emotional obstacles, unquantifiable losses that hard work cannot remedy, such as her family being "apart for every major holiday, and all four of our birthdays, and possibly our anniversary depending on the length of this deployment." Webb, a Yale graduate, laments his deployment's effects on his relationship to his young sons: "1 am now a voice on the phone." 

But these minutes spent on the phone with a family member are dear. Security is a consideration, so most of their conversations are limited to small talk, Laurie says. "We only talk about the weather and what our family is up to here and who he has gotten mail from, that sort of thing." With two hundred other soldiers waiting in line behind you to offer a few precious words to their families seven time zones away and with the realities of life in the Iraqi desert so different from life at home, it can be difficult to say anything at all. 

Charlene Derasmo chose her words carefully while speaking with her husband when he was in Iraq. She is normally a chatty woman who talks not only of her difficulties but of more mundane topics (''I'm just putting in the socks now"), but Charlene did not want to worry Dominick with her own troubles: "I got hurt at work. I couldn't tell him about it. He needed to know I was okay. It was hard: we have such an open relationship, it made me sick to hold things back." fu she dealt with her mother's Alzheimer's and struggled to explain a father's absence to her ten-year-old son, she made sure to be that calm voice on the phone: "I never mentioned that I was stressing. There were times I thought I'd have a mental breakdown." 

Some spouses have found that the media coverage of the Iraq conflict intensifies their anxiety. With a week or two between phone calls, images of explosions in Baghdad can cause sleepless nights. Although the unit of a spouse or a child may be stationed far from the region of conflict, a family tends to assume "Oh, that's mine," Hoffman of the Family Program explains. "The media likes to sensationalize, and embedded reporters send back clips out of context. It's easy for a family to assume the worst." Mark DiSpirito describes it as "a game of telephone. They turn chicken soup into a steak sandwich." 

Laurie claims that she limits her exposure to traditional media sources: "I only watch the local news once a day." Instead, she relies on the Connecticut state chain of command for updates on her husband's unit. Charlene Derasmo canceled her newspaper subscription and never turned on the radio while her husband was in Iraq. She was easily upset by coworkers who had seen television coverage of an explosion. "I told people at work not to ask," Derasmo says. "I would just say yes, my husband is okay." 

Surrounded by co-workers and friends for whom military service is an abstract notion, many spouses of soldiers turn to the help offered by the Connecticut Army Reserve Family Program for support. The program provides workshops and counselors to help soldiers take advantage of the health and medical benefits of service and offers support to the families left behind. Twelve centers scattered throughout Connecticut can provide reliable information about the status of deployed units. The Connecticut Army Reserve Family Program has also worked with a newly created organization, "Yale College Students for Military Family Support," to put together such events as an Easter egg hunt or visits to local homes to help families with yardwork and household chores. The program also gives members the opportunity to meet people facing similar circumstances; Families can speak comfortably without trite disclaimers The New Journal