Publication date: October 2004
Volume: 37
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Michael Addison
- Editor-in-Chief: Flora Lichtman
- Managing Editor: Sarah Laskow
- Designer: MiaoWang
- Business Manager: BrianWayda
- Photography Editor: Eve Fairbanks
- Production Manager: Adriane Quinlan
- Research Director: Romy Drucker
- Circulation and Subscriptions Manager: Lane Rick, David Zax
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon • Joshua Civin • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Griggs • Brooks Kelley • Daniel Kurtz-Phelan • Jennifer Pitts • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Sledge • David Slifka • Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Suong • John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Steven Weisman • Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Blaire Bennett • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bennett • Richard Blow • Martha Brant • Jay Carney • Daphne Chu • Josh Civin • Jonathan M. Clark • Constance Clement • Elisha Cooper • Perer B. Cooper • Andy Court • Masi Denison • Albert J. Fox • Mrs. Howard Fox • David Freeman • Geoffrey Fried • Sherwin Goldman • David Greenberg • Tom Griggs • Stephen Hellman • Jane Kamensky • Brooks Kelley • Roger K.irwood • Lewis E. Lehrman • Jim Lowe • E. Nobles Lowe • Martha E. Neil • Peter Neill • Howard H. Newman • Sean O'Brien • Julie Peters • Lewis and Joan Platt • ~h Plaut • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Fairfax C. Randal • Stuart Rohrer. Arleen and Arthur ager • Richard Shields • W Hampton Sides • Lisa Silverman • EliZA~beth and William Sledge • Adina Proposco and David Sulsman • Thomas Strong • Elinbeth Tare • Daniel Yergin and Angela Stem Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Points of Departure
- Holding Down the Fort - Coco Krumme
- Shots in the Dark: - Isaac Klausner
- Manifesting Destiny - Romy Drucker
- Into the· City - Concha Mendoza
- Essay: The Lost Dogs - Megan O'Connor
- The Critical Angle: Tongue-Thaied - Flora Lichtman
- Endnote: A Yale Model - Adriane Quinlan


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Holding Down the Fort**
**Author: Coco Krumme**
**Page number(s): 10**

Connecticut soldiers and their families learn to survive on two 
fronts.



**Title: Shots in the Dark:**
**Author: Isaac Klausner**
**Page number(s): 14**



**Title: Manifesting Destiny**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 16**

From missionaries to a global mission, why is Yale in China?



**Title: Into the· City**
**Author: Concha Mendoza**
**Page number(s): 22**

How Yale graduates fuel New Haven,s political machine.



**Title: Essay: The Lost Dogs**
**Author: Megan O'Connor**
**Page number(s): 24**



**Title: The Critical Angle: Tongue-Thaied**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 26**



**Title: Endnote: A Yale Model**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 30**


The 
cw Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal ar Yale, Inc., P.O. Box 3432 Yale Station, New Haven, Cf 06520. Office address: 29-45 Broadway. Phone: (203) 432-
1957. Email: tnj@yale.edu. All contenrs copyright 2003 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All Righrs Reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without wrinen permission of the publisher and editor in 
chief is prohibited. While this magazine is published by Yale College studenrs, Yale University is not responsible for irs contents. Seven thousand five hundred copies of each issue are distributed free to members 
of the Yale and New Haven community. Subscriptions are available to those ourside the area. Rates: One year, $18. Two years, $32. The New Journal is primed by Turley Publications, Palmer, rna; bookkeeping 
and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. The New Journal encourages lcners to the editor and commenrs on Yale and New Haven issues. Write to Editorials, 3432 Yale Station, 
New Haven, cr 06520. All letters for publication must include address and signature. We reserve the right to edit all letters for publication. 


**Title: The Bookkeeper**
**Author: Emily Kopley**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'
The Bookkeeper
"I HOPE THIS BITE'S NOT A SPIDER BITE,"
Patsy Recchia, the sole employee of· the
Bryn Mawr Book Shop, worries aloud as she
examines her inflamed thumb, adding, "90
percent of spiders in this state are
.
,,
pOisonous.

A yellow hand-lettered sandwich board
advertising "Used arid Out-of-Print Books"
marks the entrance of an alley
between Kanavesky's Art Gallery
and a vacant piano salesroom on
Whitney Avenue. The intrigued
passerby who ventures down this
alley finds the bookshop's small but
inviting storefront. An owl figurine
perched on the window and a sub-
dued dog, Zoe, complement the
photograph-plastered
door.

Within, a copious and quirky col-
lection of timeworn tomes clutters
the dusty shelves, and the antique
atmosphere is well-matched by its
conscientious bookseller.

Inside the store, a small wood-
en placard announces key dates in
the store's history: " 1952-First
Bryn
· Mawr
Book
Sale/Nov.
11,
1970
First New Haven Book Shop
open/Jan. 19, 1972
Bryn Mawr Book
Shop open at 56 Whitney Avenue"
this
address is rumored to have been previously
occupied by a glue factory. T hough the fac-
tory is long-gone, there is still an abundance
of old glue: that which binds the store's
books. Among these lies The Bankrupt
Bookseller, an obscure volume from 1947,
by the charmingly pseudonymed Will Y.
Darling, whose tale begins, "I am a book-
seller. I am not a bookseller born and bred.
I am one who has come late to the craft but,
if late, not less lovingly. Books are a tran-
script of life, they say, but to me they are
more than the transcript. They are life
itself'' This quote could have come from
the mouth of Patsy Recchia, who has
worked at the shop full-time for nine years.

Patsy, like the innumerable owl fig-
urines that roost on every ledge in the shop's
entrance, appears wizened and certainly
4
bookish. She has the alert and genial air of
one deeply interested in stories, both of
books and of people. Like the bankrupt
bookseller, Patsy came late to the craft, after
previously spending 18 years a8 a profes-
sional photographer. Wedding photos, from
different periods, and Hollywood glamour
shots, comprise many of the old . pho..:
tographs on the walls and shelves. 1950s
paperback covers and postcards from song-
. Patsy has befriended. One former customer,
who graduated from Yale and moved from
New Haven several years ago, recently
returned to the shop to let Patsy know that
he. was engaged. Another customer, an air-
line pilot and Gary Cooper look-alike, tells
tales of dangerous distraction by female air-
plane passengers. A Long Wharf Theater
actor gave Patsy free tickets to a Eugen~
O'Neill play. Still others are "eccentric and
harmless," Patsy says. Developing
relationships with "these people who
are so incredibly interesting to me,"
she confides, is "the best part of the
job." Yet Phillips covertly shares that
Patsy "sometimes blasts CDs of
German poetry. I think she relishes
the complaints over that most of all."

Unlike the eponymous book-
seller, Patsy is far from bankrupt:
after financial difficulties in 2003, the
Bryn Mawr Book Shop is recovered
this year. Patsy mourns the passing of
the shop's main competitors, the
scholarly Foundry bookstore and the
used bookstore, Arathusa, which
David Zax
both went out of business a couple of
years ago. In addition to the loss of
competition, Patsy attributes the store's suc-
cess to the high quality of literature as well
as to her careful management. "Books don't
sell in boxes," she explains, so she meticu-
lously organizes them. Furthermore, Patsy
asserts, "I have total recall of books," confi-
dent she can point a customer to the precise
location of any volume. The books' quality
and variety depend on their previous own-
ers, an eclectic group including Professor
Charles Hill, George Plimpton's sister and
George W. Bush's uncle.


The thousands of donated books are
separated into categories: including litera-
ture, poetry, biography, art history, Yale lit-
erature, Everyman's Library, education and
rare books.

But hidden within lie unex-
pected finds, such as a signed book of
poems by Eugene McCarthy, a. pamphlet of
Alaskan folk -poetry, or what Phillips
describes as · "the unfinished account of an
allegorical journey to an unmappable island,
filed of all things under 'Mountain
The New Journal
•


--- Page 5 ---

-
Climbing,' on the sports shel£" The collec-
tion is extensive and fascinating, and deals
can be struck, particularly by the poor and
sympathetic college student.

New Haven's Bryn Mawr Book Shop
shares its name with several stores that pop-
ulate college towns and put the profits from
the sales of donated books toward scholar-
ships offered by Bryn Mawr College. These
need-based scholarships fund college tuition
as well as travel-fellowships and other edu-
cational endeavors. Until nine years ago, the
New Haven store was run by several elderly
volunteers. SiQ.ce then, under minimal man-
agement of owner Louise Carter, Patsy has
worked full-time. Like the mascot of all
Bryn Mawr Book Shops, the owl, the store
keeps · unusual hours: Tuesday through
Saturday, 11-4.

If "books are life itself," as Will Y.
Darling posits, then the Bryn Mawr Book
Shop, for all its dust and history, is not a
tomb for tomes, but a greenhouse of lively
stories, imaginative images, spirited peo-
ple and the occasional spider.
--Emily Kopley


**Title: Supermercado**
**Author: Ana Johnson**
**Page number(s): 5**

Supermercado
WITH DIZZY'ING SCHEDULES and hours of
course work, it's hard for college students to
find time to save the world. Mercado
Glooal, a new Yale student-run organiza-
tion, has devised a synergistic solution
for the "I-would-be-but-I-have-no-time"
activist: Mercado sells handcrafts for low
prices and donates most of the profits to
Guatemalan non-governmental organiza-
tions.

McDonald's revolutionized ham-
burger sales by making them cheap and fast;
Mercado Global, ironically, works on a sim-
ilar model, minimizing costs and maximiz-
• tng returns.

Despite their charitable mission,
. .
Mercado Global is a finely tuned business,
whose purpose is to channel money from
America to Guatemala. In fact, the Yale
Entrepreneurial Society (YES) honored
Mercado with a fifty-thousand dollar prize
for best Social Entrepreneurship business
plan in last year's "Y50K" competition. The
October 2004
'·
I
crux of Mercado's plan is its minimal over-
head, which creates an abundance of cash to
be sent to Guatemala. The best part of
Mercado's work, according to former mem-
ber Mattias Sparrow, "is that 80 percent of
our profits go back to Guatemala."

Beginning with the Y50K prize, the organi-
zation has been on what Sparrow calls, "a
winning trajectory." They went on to win
an Echoing Green fellowship to promote
social change in 2004, valued at $90,000.
With these awards Mercado has created an
inventory fund and is now beginning a
national sales campaign.
Volunteers are
being recruited at Brown, Columbia, NYU,
Harvard
and
potentially
Princeton.
Negotiations are underway with for-profit
corporations, such as World of Good, a
company that might be able to use
Mercado's image to improve its own.
The model is a
is invested in actually selling the products.
How? Because no self-respecting college stu-
dent could say no to a new purse that also
cures social ills.

In fact, even this reporter could not
resist the allure of Mercado's product line.
The item was a frog keychain made entirely
of shiny plastic beads. It measured about an
inch and a half, and its purchase ran some-
thing like this:
"Hey that's cute. How much is
· this one?"
"Six dollars,"
said
volunteer.
the Mercado
"Remind me, what percentage of that is
going back to Guatemala?"
"Eighty."
"Let me go get my wallet."

The power of Mercado's well-con-
structed business plan is clear from . this
exchange. In fact,
this reporter was
so pleased with
his "donation'' to
Guatemalan
NGOs he did not
lament the subse-
quent breaking of
the frog minutes
after its purchase.

simple one. Ruth
Degolia,
another
Mercado
founder
and one of its con-
tacts in Guatemala,
arranges for a wide-
selection of prod-
ucts to be bought
from women's co-
ops and an AIDS
hospital.
Laborers
are paid for their
goods according to
Who could regret buying this?
~
a "fair trade" price. This price is set by the
Fair Trade Federation. A Guatemalan ship.;.
per agreed to assist Mercado by forwarding
all goods purchased in Guatemala to the
United States, free of charge.

When goods reach the U.S., Mercado
turns them over to college student volun-
teers who are in charge of sales. They set up
tables, hold events, and contact stores.
Public relations for Mercado is mostly
through flyers and word of mouth. Yale's
Mercado PR co-coordinator sports a
Guatemalan beaded necklace and speaks
about Mercado with a vibrancy equal to her
Guatemalan textile headband: "My job is
easy ... I made some flyers and that's pretty
much it." Consequently, very little m.oney
offers the oppor-
tunity for student
volunteers to be a
part of a successful ~usiness model; for stu-
dent purchasers to save the world, and for
everyone involved to still have time for that
problem set. Meanwhile, Guatemalans not
only get paid at a fair rate but also benefit
from the profits ofUS sales. The 80 percent
Mercado sends back to Guatemala helps run
an AIDS hospital and send girls to school.
"In one day we made enough to send 13
girls to school for one year," remarked Dain
Lewis, a Mercado staff member at the end
of a Cross Campus sale.
To clarify, he
added, "That's a result of marking the prices
up quite a bit."

Therein lies the beauty of Mercado
Global: it can cater simultaneously to both
the consumer culture of US colleges, and
5


--- Page 6 ---

the altruism also endemic to any campus.
Mercado is an impressive material success
that began with a focused business plan.
Lewis claims the next step is to expand the
countries that contribute to and benefit
from Mercado's sales. "Maybe Ecuador or
Peru," says Lewis. Soon, college students
can look forward to an even wider array of
goods guaranteed to save the world.
--Gabriel D iaz


**Title: Excommmunicated**
**Author: Beatrice Liu**
**Page number(s): 6**

Excommmunicated
CHARGED WITH THE IMPORTANT TASK of
disciplining
Yalies
who
violate
the
Undergraduate
Regulations, . the
Yale
College Executive Committee (ExComm),
is surprisingly obscure. Most students know
next to nothing about the structure and
procedure of this miniature judicial body,
and few seem to care. The regulations hand-
book, dutifully distributed to freshmen dur-
ing orientation, is usually tossed into recy-
cling bins unread. Despite the University's
reputation of upholding justice and execut-
ing the top law school in the nation, stu-
dents seem apathetic to the application of
justice in their everyday lives.

Unless, of course, you do get into trou-
ble. Historically, trouble has meant any-
thing from shooting a BB gun, to urinating
on Yale property, to failing to cite sources in
a paper. One mischevious · sophomore,
Emmett*, learned the hard way that "throw-
ing objects of any kind from windows," is,
as stated in the Undergraduate Regulations
handbook, a punishable offense.

Last November, sitting in his freshman
dorm, Emmett and his roommate "got
bored." To amuse themselves, they "set fire
to objects" in their room and "dispatched
them out the window," as he described it-
entertainment that, according to Emmett,
he enjoyed all the time at home. Unlike at
home, where Emmett's actions hardly raised
an eyebrow, his little defenestrations did not
go unnoticed. The fire marshal arrived, fol-
lowed by the police. When the college dean
was alerted, the students knew they were in
trouble. "She was not pleased in any shape
or form," Emmett said. But his worries did
6
not end there. Emmett got a letter from the
ExComm, telling him that his alleged viola-
tion of undergraduate regulations had been
submitted as a complaint and that he would
have to testify before the ExCom~ boar,d.

Emmett was about to experience Yale's
elusive justice system for the first time. And
he had no idea what to expect. "I had only.
been in school for two months," he said,
recounting the experience with some disbe-
lief "I was very, freaked out."·

The ExComm is made up of six facul-
ty members, three undergraduates (usually
upperclassmen) and a presiding judge
Yale College Dean. The student's college
dean, present technically only for moral
d
"d
, ft
support an as an a vocate, o en repre-
sents the student in formal proceedings. In
some more serious cases, witneS.ses can be
asked to appear for questioning. There is
also no immunity for witnesses who testify.
Dealing with a fair number of sticky cases
each year, the ExComm has to do a lot of
homework to prepare for a hearing. Paige
Herwin '02, who served on the ExComm
her senior year, said members would get a
call from the Dean's secretary about the·
complaint and receive a ·confidential packet
of materials from the factfinder. This packet
contains information that the factfinder
puts together after talking to the victim, the
dean of both students, their friends, and the
"charged" student (a euphemism the
ExComm prefers over "accused").

At the hearing, the charged student, his
or her dean and sometimes the student's
personal law}'er are present. The ExComrn
questions the student and witnesses, listens
to the dean's statement, and then asks the
student and the dean to leave the room.
Each member in the ExComm, apart from
the secretary, then casts an anonymous vote
on whether the student has violated the
Undergraduate Regulations. However, stu-
dents usually don't dispute the charge,
Herwin says. The question is not usually
whether a violation actually occurred, but
how to assign consequences to the violation.
In other words, ExComrn rarely tries stu-
dents; more often it just doles out punish-
ments.

According to Dean Jill Cutler, who has
served as secretary of the ExComm for six
years, apart from the severity of the viola-
tion itself, the committee also takes into
consideration the student's attitude towards
what he or she has done, any past offenses,
and the consequences of the offense when
administering penalties. This may be the
reason why cheating is often less severely
punished than plagiarism
cheating is
regarded by ExComm as a panic reaction,
alludes Dean Cutler, while plagiarism
occurs after planning and reflection.

While there are no mandatory punish-
ments for violations (penalties are given on
a case-by-case basis), some standards apply.
For instance, according to Dean Cutler, the
typical penalty for plagiarism is two terms of
suspension. Still, even these standards are
subject to evolution. Assault offenders used ·
to only be "reprimanded," but with the rise
of serious assault cases, the ExComm decid-
ed to step up the punishment for assault to
a level "more closely comparable to penalties
for academic dishonesty."

So where did these standards put
Emmett, the dispatcher of burning objects?
Since Emmett did not dispute the charge
and his offense was relatively minor, the
process was straightforward. He merely had
to appear before the Coordinating Group of
the Executive Committee, which consists of
the chairman, the factfinder, and the secre-
tary.

And luckily for him and his roommate,
the Coordinating Group was not too harsh.
No fines, no letter of apology. They were
reprimanded, and allowed to go. "It was
sweet once it was over. It felt like I got out
of jail."
--Beatrice L iu
*This name bas been changed.


**Title: Horse Play**
**Author:  (Author not listed)**

Horse Play
CHARLIE,
A - JUNIOR
FROM
jAC KSO N,
Mississippi, opens the barn doors to let in
two horses from the small dirt courtyard.
"It's an awesome opportunity," he says,



**Yale's Equestrian Sports: A Surprisingly Unpretentious History**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'
•
wheeling a sack of Blue Seal horse feed from
Zephyr's stall to Oreo's. "Polo is an incred-
ibly expensive sport. I certainly don't have
the money to play anywhere other than
Yale." One thing that might surprise you
about equestrian sports at Yale
besides the
fact that it exists
is that they have had an
unpretentious history.

The stables owe their existence to the
Army.
In 1916, the War Department
approved an ROTC training division at
Yale. This impetus drove interested alumni
to contribute money toward the construc-
tion of an equestrian center, according to
Alexandra Redding '02, a veteran of the
Polo Team. After the completion of the
Armory, as the facility was called, the Army
provided horses and equipment, so that a
polo team could be maintained at "practi-
cally no expense to the student," wrote one
contemporary.
Similar ROTC programs
sprung up across the country, opening polo
to a wider demographic than ever before.
When the atom bomb demonstrated
cavalry's obsolescence, the Army ended the
ROTC program, and Yale polo alumni
bought the horses and equipment. To the
present day, donations from polo clubs
across the country
have kept Yale polo
playing. In addi-
tion
to
direct
financial
dona-
tions,
the
club
actual
receives
horses, which can
then be kept or
sold. "Tommy Lee
Jones gave us a
pony. He was too
tall though, so we
sold
him,"
says
Charlie. The names of these donated horses
often indicate their origins: Manzana and
Sanchez's names reveal their Argentinian
hedtage, where the best polo is played.
However, some donated horses arrive with-
out names, and indicative of how equestrian
spons have changed, the Polo Team recent-
ly named a horse, Yo Mama. "Just think
about being able to say, 'I am riding Yo
October 2004
..
Mama tonight,' or 'Yo Mama is lame,' or
even 'I made Yo Mama sweat last night,"'
explains
Women's
Polo
captain
Philippa Pavia.
Outside of college, many students
would find equestrian sports cost-prohibi-
tive, requiring "payment for a horse, board-
ing fees, vet bills, shoeing and lessons. Here
you just pay for lessons," explains Liz
Jordan, a junior in Berkeley and captain of
the Yale Equestrian Team, started in 1985 as
another club equestrian sport. The work of
this team is showmanship: controlling the
horse, jumping, and displaying finesse. Last
year Jordan made it to nationals, a feat that
a teammate describes as "a miracle" consid-
ering that the Equestrian Center, today's
incarnation of the Armory, is inadequate
for her team's work. All Equestrian Team
members, except for beginners, pay for
lessons at a private barn outside New
Haven.
The few horses owned by the
Equestrian Team are not in good enough
shape, and the footing in the practice arena
is so hard that were the horses to jump, their
legs would break.
A few years ago the
Equestrian Team began a campaign to get
the University to renovate the Center, but
after a private
renovation
assessment
yielded a fig-
ure close to
ten
million
dollars,
Athletic
.
Depart-
ment has been
unwilling to
make
Equestrian
David Zax Center
a
priority. Without a doubt, everyone would
love to see a renovated barn.
But the
Equestrian Team has been more vocal than·
the Polo Team. "You know, the thing about
a barn," says one polo player, "is that it's
never gonna be pristine." The Polo Team
can fully function in the current center,
which was after all made for polo, whereas
the Equestrian Team cannot.
Because


**New Grounds**
**Author: Lane Rick**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

FLANKED BY VACANT STOREFRONTS, the
upscale bohemian coffee house and bakery,
Kafe?, is jarringly out of place. With its
painted brick interior, and luxuriant leather
couches, Kafe? seems like an annex of
Koffee?, its Audubon counterpart. Only the
scarcity of customers distinguishes the new
coffee house from its bustling eleven-year-
old cousin. Not even the endless flow of cars
crossing the Grand Avenue bridge, which
divides Fair Haven and Fair Haven Heights,
brings life to Kafe?'s lonely sidewalk strip,
shared only with Ziggy's Pizza.

Although Duncan Goodall owns both
coffee houses and is negotiating the opening
of a third, he seems calm standing behind
Koffee?'s counter, handing change and
mochas to a flowing line of caffeine-addicts.
His phone rings and he dashes out the door,
mumbling something about needing to call
Kafc
,~
e ..

These coffee houses are Goodall's
"small screw in the wind" against the loss of
community the past decade has seen: Years
.ago,
Goodall
read
Robert
Putnam's
Bowling Alone: The Collapse and
Revival of the American Community
and was deeply affected. He extracts the
phrase, "a life of desperate isolation'' to
describe what he sees as New Haven's
starved and dispersed community, in which
the workplace has failed to pull the neigh-
borhood together; people are slipping of
touch. Goodall, a strong proponent of new
urbanism, hopes Kafe? will help join Fair
Haven and Fair Haven Heights to create an
intermingled community .

Goodall got into the coffee house busi-
ness after he bought Koffee?
his favorite
college study place-from its original owners,
Lee and Tracy Johnson (who now own
KoffeeToo?). After graduating, he had no
intention of going into this line of work.
He fled New Haven to work with a consult-
ing company in Argentina. A few years later,
he moved back with his wife, to settle down
and run a business. Years later, he's expand-
ing. "One of the pieces I enjoy doing in a
coffee house like this is growing, building,
expanding," Goodall explains. "The day-to-
day stuff is not as exciting."

Koffee? feeds affluent East Rock resi-
dents their daily cookies and caffeine;
KoffeeToo? sits safely within the confines of
Yale, padded by studious coffee addicts who
need a place to work and mingle with
friends. Kafe? is on Grand Ave., directly
across the river from Fair Haven proper and
bordering Fair Haven Heights. Despite the
fact that Fair Haven is economically
depressed, Fair Haven Heights has become
the newest upscale neighborhood, attracting
young couples who cannot afford down-
town property prices. "These are my peo-
ple," Goodall notes. The 20-someihing Yale
grads are just the type to gravitate towards
an independent coffee shop for a daily latte
and cranberry scone.

The
predominantly
working-class
community in Fair Haven proper is perhaps
not as likely to indulge in three-dollar cups
of iced chai lattes. Goodall realizes this.
He's trying to bridge the gap by offering
lower-cost items, specifically less expensive
than Dunkin' Donuts, his competitor. Since
The New Journal


opening Kafe? in early September, Goodall
has circulated elaborate pro-con flyers com-
paring Kafe? to Dunkin' Donuts. To keep
up with the competition, Kafe? offers a
breakfast sandwich and cheap cup of joe,
while keeping the fancier coffees at the same
steep price of any other trendy cafe. He
admits that he really doesn't know if the
advertising has worked and probably won't
find out for a few more months. So far
Kafe? has doubled its sales within three
weeks of opening, and continues to grow.
Right now, Kafe? and Ziggy's Pizza are
the only two ,businesses on this run-down,
paint-chipped block. It's not very inviting.
But within the next year or so, Alex
Schiavone (daughter of Joel Schiavone) will
demolish the building, develop a new one
and contract other businesses, including a
high-end wine shop, a flower shop, a
gourmet deli, an upscale restaurant and an
Irish pub; Ziggy's may or may not stay. This
will be a similar transformation to Joel
Schiavone's work in downtown New Haven
during the '80s when the Ninth Square was
developed.
The Fair Haven community
seems
support
development.
Neighbors have poured in the doors of every
community meeting about the revamping,
which will create a commercial focal point
for the Fair Haven Heights and Fair Haven
Proper.
Right now, Goodall says he gets an
equal number of customers from both sides
of the river. "While Kafe? works to expand its
Fair Haven customer base, Goodall has
moved on to more growth and develop-
ment; he hopes to be signing a lease this
week
for
another
coffee
house
-Moka?
but won't reveal the potential
location. He's clearly excited about Moka?,
and if all goes as planned, he cia i ms Moka?
should get even more business than Koffee?.
Before heading back to work, wliere
customers have been streaming in all morn-
ing, Goodall adds, "It's a lot of fun." He
pauses, "It's like a big game of lemonade
stand but with a lot more varieties. I would-
n't want anything else."
___,Lane Rick


91 0 whatley avenue
203-389-3369
new haven1 CT 06515
. yarn lie. com
ask about our knitting classes
receive a 5% discount with this ad
5PE
Voted Advocate's
Best New Haven Eye Doctor
and Best Eye
• comprehensive eye exams
• contact lenses
• fashion eye wear
Featuring the
eye wear at
nest selection o better
ranteed lowest prices.
1 044 Chapel Street (Sherman 's Alley)
PHONE: (203) 787-7111 • Free Parking
•Student Discount Available •



**Title: The Connecticut Reserves**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
HARLENE DERASMO WAS SHOCKED when her husband Dominick, a fueler in the 439m reserve unit, told her he was being sent to Iraq. "What do you mean you're going?" she exclaimed. "You have a desk job!"' 
The 439m, a New Haven based unit, is part of the Connecticut Army Reserve, which has approximately 5,000 members, 1,100 of whom are currently active, mostly in Iraq and Mghanistan. The principal mandate of the state Army Reserve is to protect Connecticut's "life and property," but its units can be called upon to defend the interests of the United States. Many reservists join the Reserve for personal fulfillment, educational benefits, or as a source of extra income, never actually expecting to serve overseas. Yet what may have once been a remote prospect is now a near certainty: Kimberly Hoffman of the Connecticut National Guard Family Program a state-funded support network for Connecticut troops explains that the question for guardsmen today "is nC?t SO much if you'll be deployed, as when you'll be deployed." 

After 18 months overseas, the 439m returned home in August. 
The soldiers describe a mythical land, blanketed in ancient seashells, where 130-degree heat is commonplace and sandstorms cloud the earth from morning until night. These Connecticut troops were sent to Southern Iraq, far from the zones of intense combat on which the media focuses. Mark DiSpirito, a specialist in Derasmo's New Haven-based unit, recalls the way ice melted in seconds flat, or how the heat sucked the moisture out of the shaving cream on his face before he was finished shaving. Chris Beckwith, remembers the influx of televisions to the South after Saddarn Hussein's capture. 
Most families in this region live in tents. To capitalize on the nighttime breeze, they lay carpets and sofas outside, rig lamps on wooden posts and watch their new televis\bns under the stars .. 

But the soldiers also speak of a darker side: of low morale, of the unshakable desire to be anywhere else. "What kept me going," Beckwith says, "was the idea of coming home when it's all over." The stress of living in close quarters and spending most of the day doing physical labor builds up quickly. "Some reach a boiling point," DiSpirito says. Establishing a co-existence with Iraqis was another challenge: "You're actually living in someone's backyard," DiSpirito notes. Beckwith says he started to become suspicious of everyone. His unit met one Iraqi who seemed hospitable to the troops but appeared the following week on CNN, gleefully burning an army hum vee. 

once soldiers are called to duty, their experiences divorce them from the lives of their families in Connecticut. Brief weekly phone calls and occasional emails are the only things bridging the more than six thousand miles. Meanwhile the families of these soldiers must also, in these all-too-brief communications, try to portray a glimpse of their own changed lives. 
notice of deployment is often abrupt: a soldier learns his unit has been called up three to four weeks before he is slated to depart. In Connecticut, with only a few bases and a dispersed corps of reservists, the harsh notice of departure can be especially surreal. One Connecticut unit, the 248m Engineer Company of Norwich, was called up on Valentine's Day. 

Although news of deployment can be abrupt, a soldier will often greet the announcement with flat banality. fu DiSpirito, a specialist in the 439'h, puts it, "If I have to go, I have to go." Even if not initially stone-faced, in time, soldiers habituate themselves to the separation. Irman Webb, a 1998 Yale graduate currently serving in Mghanistan, explains in an email that "after the initial gut-wrenching reality of being separated from those whom I love the most, I got into my routine and time is ticking by." 

When considering the vast consequences of war, the effect on soldiers rarely goes unmentioned. Less frequently discussed, however, are the effects of the battle abroad on families at home. The absence of a mother or father generates financial and physical burdens that exacerbate emotional ones. Spouses often take on second jobs to compensate for losses in income as deployed reservists transition from a day job to a monthly base pay of around $2,500. There are new costs as well: Beckwith racked up a $16,000 charge on a mobile phone he brought to Iraq to skirt the three-hour waits for public phones. Connecticut has fewer bases and a less-pronounced history of service than other states. Consequently, families often must confront the departure of a loved one without the support of those in similar situations. While DiSpirito was in Iraq, his wife Millie organized a support group of military families, while working two jobs. 

Laurie, the wife of a recently-deployed Connecticut Guardsman, missed little unexpected things. She needed to remember on her own "to renew the registration on the car, or cover the air conditioner for the cold weather." She also cites the emotional obstacles, unquantifiable losses that hard work cannot remedy, such as her family being "apart for every major holiday, and all four of our birthdays, and possibly our anniversary depending on the length of this deployment." Webb, a Yale graduate, laments his deployment's effects on his relationship to his young sons: "1 am now a voice on the phone." 

But these minutes spent on the phone with a family member are dear. Security is a consideration, so most of their conversations are limited to small talk, Laurie says. "We only talk about the weather and what our family is up to here and who he has gotten mail from, that sort of thing." With two hundred other soldiers waiting in line behind you to offer a few precious words to their families seven time zones away and with the realities of life in the Iraqi desert so different from life at home, it can be difficult to say anything at all. 

Charlene Derasmo chose her words carefully while speaking with her husband when he was in Iraq. She is normally a chatty woman who talks not only of her difficulties but of more mundane topics (''I'm just putting in the socks now"), but Charlene did not want to worry Dominick with her own troubles: "I got hurt at work. I couldn't tell him about it. He needed to know I was okay. It was hard: we have such an open relationship, it made me sick to hold things back." fu she dealt with her mother's Alzheimer's and struggled to explain a father's absence to her ten-year-old son, she made sure to be that calm voice on the phone: "I never mentioned that I was stressing. There were times I thought I'd have a mental breakdown." 

Some spouses have found that the media coverage of the Iraq conflict intensifies their anxiety. With a week or two between phone calls, images of explosions in Baghdad can cause sleepless nights. Although the unit of a spouse or a child may be stationed far from the region of conflict, a family tends to assume "Oh, that's mine," Hoffman of the Family Program explains. "The media likes to sensationalize, and embedded reporters send back clips out of context. It's easy for a family to assume the worst." Mark DiSpirito describes it as "a game of telephone. They turn chicken soup into a steak sandwich." 

Laurie claims that she limits her exposure to traditional media sources: "I only watch the local news once a day." Instead, she relies on the Connecticut state chain of command for updates on her husband's unit. Charlene Derasmo canceled her newspaper subscription and never turned on the radio while her husband was in Iraq. She was easily upset by coworkers who had seen television coverage of an explosion. "I told people at work not to ask," Derasmo says. "I would just say yes, my husband is okay." 

Surrounded by co-workers and friends for whom military service is an abstract notion, many spouses of soldiers turn to the help offered by the Connecticut Army Reserve Family Program for support. The program provides workshops and counselors to help soldiers take advantage of the health and medical benefits of service and offers support to the families left behind. Twelve centers scattered throughout Connecticut can provide reliable information about the status of deployed units. The Connecticut Army Reserve Family Program has also worked with a newly created organization, "Yale College Students for Military Family Support," to put together such events as an Easter egg hunt or visits to local homes to help families with yardwork and household chores. The program also gives members the opportunity to meet people facing similar circumstances; Families can speak comfortably without trite disclaimers The New Journal 


**Title: Connecticut's Reservists**
**Author: Coco Krumme**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
or avowals that "my husband is okay."

Sometimes, families offer more 'than just support. When
DiSpirito's unit had its deployment extended a third time, Millie
DiSpirito knew she had to speak up. 'Tm from New York," she
quips. "This mouth has no hair on it." Millie organized a group of
wives of soldiers in the 439<h, w\:lo promised to "do whatever it takes"
to get the unit home. The group made a big enough stink to arouse
the attention of Congresswoman Rosa D eLauro and, eventually,
Senator Joe Lieberman. The Senator held a meeting for DiSpirito's
group but offered only vague words of consolation. By chance or
will, the unit was released a
month ahead of schedule. Mark
DiSpirito chalks up the success of
the early homecoming to the per-
sistence of his wife: "She was
instrumental
in
getting
us
'
home."

Many challenges accompany
the return of a loved one as a sin-
gle-parent household or an empty
nest reincorporates a member.
When a spouse returns, adjust-
ment can be difficult on both
sides. Soldiers must cast off the
months spent in cramped quar-
ters with their unit, while spouses
must adjust to a two-adult house-
hold in which both parents call
the shots.

The Family Program tries to
address what Hoffman dubs "the
initial phase of shock'' that sol-
diers experience when they come
home by staffing its centers with
psychologists. But in daily activi-
ty; many soldiers find themselves
feeling isolated. Neighbors offer
help, but few can relate to post-
service life. In Connecticut, where service is far from the norm, no
network exists for those who have served. Hoffman notes there are
few active duty officers here. Additionally, interest in joining the
reserves is dwindling
a new closure or realignment of bases occurs
every year. The dispersal of military families means more and more
are facing their individual difficulties in isolation.


But it could be worse. Although Connecticut leans left politi-
cally, military families say they have escaped the animosity that sol-
diers returning from Vietnam experienced. Millie DiSpirito remem-
bers a friend who served in the Vietnam War being called "murder-
er"; today, she says, people see soldiers in uniform and thank them.
Soldiers and families think of military service apolitically, as an occu-
October 2004
..
pation, not a philosophy. And as such, while reservists agree their
overall function is "necessary," someone else, says Beckwith, could
easily be doing the job. Charlene Derasmo likes Kc:rry's policies,
while her husband leans toward Bush. Ideology, however, does not
come up in their conversations about D ominick's time in Iraq. As
lrman Webb puts it, soldiers are "not robots without political views
or opinions. It is just unprofessional to discuss those views while in
uniform.'' Parents of soldiers, Derasmo notes, tend to be slightly
more political. Parents "just want their kid out," while spouses have
to face the work as a reality of their marriage.


The absence of criticism,
however, does not imply active
support. Many families believe
their neighbors and towns could
do more to help. Laurie explains
that her community in the Lower
Naugatuck Valley is "supportive to
a point. They remember the ser-
vice member at the holiday time."
Charlene Derasmo feels the Same
way about Waterbury; "without a
personal involvement with the
issue, you sort of go on with your
life." Webb is concerned that the
public has become habituated to
the deaths of Americans overseas:
at the onset of the war, Webb
points out, a television report
would display a photo of a soldier
who was killed, followed by a brief
silence. Today, the names merely
scroll across the bottom of the
screen. "The media has stopped
giving our war dead the respect
that they _c).eserve," Webb says.

T he latest figures show that
while the army is meeting its
goals, recruitment and retention
of troops remain the army's chief concerns. Most of Connecticut's
reservists have faced or will soon have to face deployment, a reality
that prospective guardsmen now have to weigh before enlisting.
Chris Beckwith describes how the initial optimism upon entering
Iraq quickly gave way to a more complex reality: "When we first got
there, they thought it was just like flipping a switch," bur found the
task much more difficult. For many Connecticut households with a
family member at war, a similar sentiment holds.

Coco Krumme, a senior in Ezra Stiles, is on the staff of
TN].



**Title: Yung Wing's Legacy at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
An artisrs depiction of young Wing excelling early on during his studies in China. Provided by Beatrice Bartlett . 
uur. Wing's story is the official car-
bon marker at which the history of 
Yale's interaction with China begins. 
Yung Wing graduated from Yale in 1854 in 
a class of 98 students, becoming the first 
Asian to earn a degree (specifically a 
Bachelor of the Arts) from an American 
university. Rumor has it that he wore tradi-
tional Chinese robes and a coiffure of black 
braids to his first class. This was not the 
only way he made his mark. He survives as 
a symbol of Yale's storied history with 
China, a history that has recently taken on 
new urgency. 

Yale first became involved with China 
two decades prior to Wing's matriculation, 
in the 1830s, when it sent missionaries to 
the country "with a spirit that is loyal to the 
institution," says History Professor Beatrice 
Bartlett. In 2004, this spirit has not faded 
but transformed from its original incarna-
tion as an extension of the popular 
Christian gospel movement in the nine-
teenth century. Yale adopted this missionary 
spirit and made it its own 
setting sail with 
a broader purpose than proselytizing. To a 
18 
certain extent, this brand of "Yale spirit" 
dates back to Yale's founding in 1701. At . 
that time, the Yale spirit was simply a desire 
to do good works. It was a spirit of service. 
But it was only in the 1830s, when New 
Haven and Yale began to work together pro-
ductively, that the Yale spirit took on a 
broader purpose 
a desire to serve foreign 
nations, to bring them light and truth. 

This spirit brought Yung Wing to Yale, 
changing Yale's trajectory towards diversifi-
cation. In 1847, he sailed from Hong Kong 
with Reverend Samuel Robbins Brown, Yale 
College Class of 1829. Back in China, Wing 
had excelled at his studies, with a passion 
.. and ambition that set him apart. Reverend 
Brown noted this and arranged to bring him 
to the United States. When Wing landed on 
American shores, he immediately enrolled 
in Monson Academy, a private school in 
Massachusetts not far from the Connecticut 
border that still exists today. He boarded 
with Brown's own mother. Three years later, 
in 1850, Wing enrolled as a freshman in 
Yale College: "How I got in. I do not know, 
as I had had only 15 months of Latin and 
12 months of Greek, and ten months of 
mathematics," he exclaimed in a typical Yale 
student's dubiously ironic tone. 

He not 
only excelled in his studies but was also cre-
ating a lasting legacy as the only Asian in his 
class. 

In a speech entitled "Yellow in a White 
World," Harold Koh, Dean of the Yale Law 
School, lauded Wing as the "spiritual ances-
tor of every Asian that studies here today" 
and praised Wing's courage and academic 
fortitude, citing awards in English composi-
tion Wing won during his four years here. 
"We learned his story during our child-
hood," said one Chinese visiting scholar of 
the China Law Center at the Yale Law 
School. · 
Yung Wing would impact many chil-
dren during his lifetime 
directly and indi-
rectly. In 1872, he founded the Chinese 
Educational Mission, which sent Chinese 
youths to study as a part of a program based 
in Hartford, Connecticut. Yung Wing, a 
corporeal embodiment of the essence of 
"Yu"-:a Chinese character that represents 
"the nurturing of the intellect and spirit: the 
education of the young mind and cultiva-
tion of moral character" 
was not only 
The New Journal 



**Title: The Yale Spirit in China**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
America's first Asian graduate, but 
also 
Yale's first, unofficial Asian Admissions 
Offtcer. He became the missionary: The 
Yale spirit was a part of him, and he sought 
to spread it. "His American experience was 
so good he wanted other Chinese to have 
that experience," History Professor Beatrice 
Bartlett said, emphasizing the extent 
to 
which Wing's American experience was 
shaped by the personality of the University 
and state of Connecticut. "It was very much 
a Connecticut project. A lot of families up 
and down the Connecticut Valley were 
involved with helping Yung Wing." His 
program, which sent a group of 30 students 
of varying ages to study in America for a 
year, was revolutionary at the time, antici-
pating the course that international study 
would eventually take. By 1881, however, 
his mission dwindled due to conflict 
between Wing's vision of education and 
myopic 
Chinese 
administrators 
who 
expressed 
dissatisfaction 
with 
the 
Americanization of the young Chinese stu-
dents who matriculated from the program. 
Wing was forward-thinking: he had "con-
sciously placed himself between cultures," 
says Dean Koh, alluding to the way 
in 
which Wing forever changed the Asian 
experience of being "yellow in a white 
world," a phrase that traces back to 1850 
when he arrived on campus and changed 
America. Wing could not, however, change 
China. 

Yung Wing's precocious plans antici-
pated today's link between scholarship and 
governmental reform. The collapse of his-
project is one chapter in a long history of 
tension between the Chinese government 
and Western scholarship. By the beginning 
of the twentieth century, the Yale spirit had 
evolved to reflect an emphasis on interna-
tional education. This was one impetus for 
the founding of Yale-in-China (later the 
Yale-China Association) in 1901. During 
Yale's bicentennial anniversary, Yale-in-
China, a non-profit not directly linked to 
the University, began to set a different 
precedent for cultural exchange. Yale owed 
its new ties to China to the legacy of Yung 
Wing. The nature of these ties, however, 
was at stake. As the organization took shape, 
it had to define both itself and how it would 
interact with Yale. 

Terrill E. Lautz, Ph.D, Vice President 
and Program Director for Asia of the Henry 
Luce Foundation, which offered essential 
October 2004 
fiscal support and manpower at the time 
Yale-in-China was founded, articulates 
another driving force behind Yale-in-China: 
"Four generations of Luces have gone to 
Yale. Henry R. Luce was born in China and 
his father was a missionary there. The con-
nections were personal and historical." 

Lautz, who has his own personal history 
with the Yale-China Association, is an 
extension of the tradition that the Luces 
made possible. In the early 1980s, as a Yale-
China teaching fellow, Lautz went to Hong 
Kong when China was "just opening up." 
Today, in addition to his prominent role at 
the Luce Foundation, he is chairman of the 
Yale-China Association Board of Directors, 
on which Henry Luce III is an Honorary 
Trustee. Yale-China has now created a 
dynasty of its own. As a non-profit affiliate 
of Yale, its history is wrapped up in the 
. 
. ' 
msntutlons. 

This lineage is only one aspect of the 
legendary relationship between Yale and 
China. When it was founded, it began to 
work aggressively to initiate medical and 
educational institutions in China 
includ-
ing a mission based on "a facilitation of 
meaningful exchange." Here was an institu-
tional manifestation of the munificent Yale 
spirit. Still, it faced serious setbacks, repeat-
edly coming up against . antagonistic 
Chinese political policy. The first Yale-in-
China institution, Yali Middle School, 
named for the Chinese phonetic approxi-
mation of"Yale," was founded in 1901 as a 
centerpiece of the young association's mis-
sion. However, from 1920-1927, national 
unrest in China forced the evacuation and 
closure of several established ventures, 
including Yali Middle School. By the l930s, 
these organizations were flourishing again, 
only to be uprooted during World War II to 
temporary relief areas in western China. 
Only in 1979 would the association resume 
normal programming. 

Marking the beginning of the restora-
tion of the Mainland institutions that it had 
been forced to abandon thirty years before, 
in 1975, Yale-in-China renamed itselfYale-
China. According to Christin Sandweiss, 
Director of Development at the Yale-China 
Assocation, the name was changed "to 
reflect that the organization was not [physi-
cally] present in China, as no American 
groups were. We had focused programming 
in Hong Kong until the return of diplomat-
ic relations in 1979," when the impressive 
modern history of the Association really 
begins. 

In 
the sixty trips 
that Nancy 
Chapman, Ph.D., cq.rrent Director of the 
Yale-China Association, has made to 
China, she has seen vast, sweeping change. 
"There is so much more common ground 
now than there was when I first started 
working with China," she says of her begin-
. nings almost thirty years ago as a Yale-
China teaching fellow. The 1990s wit-
nessed an enormous expansion of program-
ming for Yale-China, including a fellowship 
program to encourage women in the public 
health sector, HIV I AIDS education, the 
English Teaching Fellowship Program, 
potent legal education programs, encour-
agement of a nascent non-profit sector 
through service internships and. of course, 
continued support of both new and well-
established academic and medical institu-
tions. Many of these programs are novel in 
a Communist nation where democratic 
websites are blocked, and NGOs are still 
perceived as fronts for subversive political · 
activity. "What we seek to do," says Ms. · 
Chapman, "is draw on the strengths of 
Yale's traditions and engage members of the 
Yale community with China. Our mission 
is shared with our Chinese colleagues." 

n the wall at the Yale-China 
Association at the corner of 
Temple and Trumbull hangs a 
bulldog-blue, felt pennant that reads "Yali" 
in the same blocky, confident typeface 
found on the "Yale" sweatshirts worn here 
on cold Connecticut days. Like the sweat-
shirts, the pennant is a symbol. For Ms. 
Chapman, it represents tradition 
"a Yale 
tradition which we think is a real strength. 
The spirit of service that from [Yale-
China's] founding, and in the past 100 
years especially, infuses Yale-China, infuses 
all of our work." Yale-China is following in 
the footsteps of Reverend Samuel Brown. 

The Yale-China Association serves as a 
cable of energy, enthusiasm, and resources 
between Yale and China. "What is most 
enduring is its deep impact on people's 
lives 
how it transforms," says Ms. 
Chapman. "Our goal is to be true to the 
tradition." Ms. Chapman denies that Yale-
China is at the vanguard of significant 
changes, on the horizon of an open China: 
"Our Chinese colleagues are at the fore-
front of change. My hope would be that


--- Page 20 ---

China can reconcile competing impulses." 

It is important to note that while Yale-
China has a hyphenated connection to Yale; 
it is very much separate from the University. 
Though Yale-China is made possible by its 
prestigious affiliation, in stark contrast to 
the University, Yale-China seeks to act with-
out any political agenda. 

Yale has pursued China with the grow-
ing promise of a bright Chinese future. The 
Yale Office of International Affairs pub-
lished a 39 page booklet 
the first half of 
which is in Chinese 
entitled "Summary of 
Yale University's Current Collaborations in 
China.'' This booklet outlines the involve-
ment of Yale departments and schools in 
"advancing the frontiers of knowledge," 
President Richard Levin's introduction 
states. The projects, though diverse, share a 
spirit of possibility and reform. For one 
thing, China has given Yale an incompara-
ble new pool of talent and cutting edge 
technology. China has enriched Yale's 
research programs, especially in the sciences . 
Perhaps one of the most compelling studies, 
conducted by Dr. Zhinan Yin of the . 
Rheumatology Department, examines the 
use of Chinese herbs in the treatment of 
cancers . 

The investment Yale has made in 
China is reciprocal; yet, Yale will inevitably 
leave th_e nation changed. The China Law 
Center, founded at the Yale Law School in 
1999, whose abstract in the Yale Office of 
International Affairs booklet highlights its 
cooperative mission, is headed towards legal 
reform. The center "has built strong work-
ing relationships with Chinese institutions 
and experts that are central to current legal 
reform efforts, including academic institu-
tions, the legal profession and government 
entities." The center is undoubtedly on the 
front lines of a significant legal revolution. 
"Chinese democratic websites may be 
blocked today, but they can't be blocked 
tomorrow," says Dean Koh, thrusting at the 
immediacy of this work. For the institution 
of Yale, as opposed to Yale-China, the Yale 
spirit has morphed again, into a type of 
geopolitical reform movement. When 
China opens up, Yale will have been a motor 
that both powered the changes and was also 
affected by them. 

This explains why China was splashed 
across the front page of the Yale Dally 
News four times in September. Yale's inter-
est in China is not new; but it is becoming


--- Page 21 ---

a priority. "It is the now that's interesting," 
says Jonathan Spence, Professor of History 
and author of The Search for Modern 
China. ,"Yale really thinks itself to be a top 
flight school. It has to have this internation- . 
al dimension." Beatrice Bartlett echoes this 
sentiment by identifying the evolving link 
between Yale and China with ironic clarity: 
"Globalization is the one word answer." In 
fact, words like globalization, mutualism, 
cross-cultural exchange, and universalism 
are not just part of an academic discourse; 
they have become policy words. The 
University has integrated this new vocabu-
lary into its repertoire, a result of a thriving 
trend towards international education. 

Globalization may be the new Yale spirit. 
"[This is] a new kind of melting pot, and I 
think Yale is correct to join it, even to be a 
spearhead," says Jonathan Spence. "China is 
a nation of consequence. Most of this seems 
to be not-for-profit, though it's hard to 
guess what that means," he says. It is unde-
niable that globa,l educition is essential; but, 
doe$ globfl} education imply globalization? 
"The key goal for us here at Yale is to keep 
Y~e as one of the global universities," Koh 
said. "One of the core elements of my agen-
da as incoming dean is globalization." It is 
difficult to guess exactly what he means by 
that. 

. There is no clear-cut answer to the 
question of what globalization means to 
Yale. One gauge of the University 
the Yale 
search engine-returned 5,680 hits for "glob-
alization" in .3 seconds. Other gauges · are 
the YaleGlobal, the magazine recently 
founded by the Yale Center for the Study of 
Globalization, and the Yale Center for 
International and Area Studies which has 
risen to prominence in recent years. When 
former President Bill Clinton carne to speak 
here last year to welcome former Mexican 
President Ernesto Zedillo's appointment as 
Executive Director of the Yale Globalization 
Center, Clinton delivered a "Public Address 
on Globalization," using words like "inter-
dependence," "community," and "shared 
responsibilities," to explain how, because of 
technology, economy, and diplomacy, "we 
can not escape each other." This reaffuma-
tion of a "global social system" resonated 
strongly in the cavernous Woolsey Hall and 
needn't have echoed far to be understood. 

As arguably one of the strongest bul-
warks of thought in the United States, Yale 
has always, though perhaps not directly, 
been a part of the global social system. Yet,. 
Yale's relationship yvith China points to . a 
new politico-university policy that takes the 
national tenets of globalization and incor-
porates them into university action, though 
not without debate. Globalization seems 
simultaneously to legitimize and decry Yale's 
relationship with China. Dean Koh stated, 
"People can change institutions."·Yale's link 
with China demonstrates that institutions 
can also change people. 

"Although Yale's involvement with 
China dates back over a century, I don't 
think there is anything necessarily natural 
about Yale in China," remarks Professor 
Seth Fein. The purity of a global classroom 
is at odds with another political current 
deeply embedded in a Yale education. "We 
are living in a moment when people talk 
about globalization, when there is a conver-
gence between geopolitics of the United 
States economy and diplomacy, a moment 
when Yale is following and also reproducing 
US foreign policy, as it did a century ago," 
Fein explained. This phenomenon ofYale as 
a mini-nation raises questions about its 
intentions. Fein does not question the 
benevolence of a cross-cultural academic 
exchange yet concedes that Yale is "asserting 
a new kind of regionalism. It is notable that 
Yale has accelerated exchanges with academ-
ic universities in these regions," namely 
China, but also Mexico. These contentious 
countries, which have been the focus of 19th 
and 20'h century expansionism, notes 
Professor Fein, have reasserted themselves in 
a post-Cold War US foreign policy. These 
countries are potential diplomatic sources of 
exported US power, hot spots that offer new 
production possibilities both polici~ and 
material. "It is also dear that just as 
American businesses see China as a labor 
market, it is true that Universities-not just 
Yale 
have followed these politics." Yale's 
politics suggests its stronghold in China is 
neither coincidental nor accidental. Yale's 
politics are, however, influential. 

rofessor Wei Su of the East Asian 
Languages and Literatures depart- · 
ment offers a personal story as evi-
dence. In 1994, a revolutionary (in all sens-
es of the word) Chinese scholar, who pub-
lishes feminist, gender and sexuality criti-
cism of Chinese literature, came to Yale to 
teach with an H4 visa, his family in tow. Six 
years later, in 2000, he returned to China to 
visit his mother. Soon after he arrived, he 
says, "state security agents broke into my 
mother's apartment and arrested me. I had 
to be. detained for three days. My brother 
promptly made a call to our Department 
Chair at Yale. She immediately informed 
this emergency to President Levin who 
asked the State Department to release me." 
That day, Su was released. He h~ not gone 
home since. This incident is only.one exam-
ple of the power and presence of Yale in an 
international diplomatic dialogue. 

Professor Su's new work, being translat-
ed into English by a Harvard Ph.D., trans-
lates to My Autobiography as a 
Reactionary Element. "China," says Su, 
"is a very complex problem. I cannot 
· explain it clearly to you. The Communist 
Party government just reformed to a market 
economy, but they never want to make 
political reforms. This is a serious problem." 
He offers examples of death sentencing, 
beatings, detainments, and human rights 
violations to express his frustrations with 
China's difficulties reconciling irs status as a 
world power. In Chinese, he says, "the word 
'Reactionary' 
is 
almost 
_equal 
'Counterrevolutionary."' His book promises 
to be one more current of change that can 
be traced to Yale. Has it also been imbued 
with a new Yale spirit? 

Yale seems to think that the question of 
China opening up is not "if" but "'Yhen." 
And when it does occur, Yale will assuredly 
play a prominent role in determining the 
gestalt of that new nation. The range of 
Yale's responsibilities in municipal, national, 
and now international spheres forces Yale to 
set an example, much like Yung Wing did. 
One hundred fifty years ago, from his grad-
uation forward, the educational opportuni-
ties for millions -of Asians would be 
changed. Right now, Yale is at a crossroads. 
This is a critical moment in which Yale too 
can alter the lives of not millions, but 1.3 
billion. 

T '\: I 
Romy Drucker, a sophomore in 
Davenport, is the Research Director 
for TNJ. 

Much of the historical research pertaining to 
Yung Wing's life was provided by Beatrice S. 
Bartlett during interviews or tb1vugb 
_ 
papers, "The Chinese Edllcation Mission to tbe 
US., 1872-JBBJ:Time Line.· 

**Yale and New Haven: A Symbiotic Relationship**
**Author: Concha Mendoza**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
S AN 
UNDERGRADUATE, Joyce 
Chen wanted to do something to 
curb violence in New Haven, but · 
when six people were shot with a machine 
gun just outside her block watch meeting, 
Joyce began to act. "I started to talk to peo-
ple about the issue and ultimately I ended 
up moving from Dwight Street. I realized 
that in order to really understand these 
issues and to have greater impact, I ought to 
live in an area where I could be exposed to 
the problems on a daily basis," she says. So 
Chen, who had graduated from Yale in May 
2001, ran for Ward 2 Alderwoman the same 
fall, and was elected. She bought a home on 
"K Street," as she calls it, or Kensington 
Street, intending to live in New Haven per-
manently. Today, with plans to further the 
cause of violence prevention, she is running 
against Toni Walker for State Representative 
in the 9 3rd district. 


Many Yalies hardly experience New 
Haven beyond Yale's blocks, but of those 
who do find their way into the city, some 
linger after graduation. Many who stay 
work for non-profits. Other graduates look 
to progressive Mayor John DeStefano, who 
opens his office to eager, young students. 
Indeed, many find their own New Haven 
niche to contribute to the economic and 
· social revitalization of the city. 


Janna Wagner, a New Haven native 
and 1995 Yale graduate, realized as ·an 
undergraduate that politics were the best 
way to involve herself in the community. 
Now she has taken on the role of den moth-
er for a network ofYale graduates who have 
chosen to make their homes in the Elm 
City. Upon graduation, Wagner left New 
Haven but quickly decided to come back. 
As a Yale graduate working in New Haven, . 
she set up a list-serve to. provide a network 
for others in her position. Emails were sent, 
meetings were held and the list grew from 
two to 318 people. The electronic list 
evolved intO a social forum, through which 
not only wine-tastings and scavenger hunts 
were organized, but local business and polit-
ical issues affecting this community were 
discussed. Over the past five years, Wagner 
claims there has been an increase in the 
number of Yalies who have permanently 
adopted New Haven. "We try to get other 
people excited about staying in New Haven. 
. We invite some of the students who stay in 
New Haven over the summer to show that 
New Haven is a cool, vibrant place to live as 
a young person." With this pitch, Wagner is 
one ofNew Haven's greatest public relations 
advocates. 


Michael Montano, who graduated 
in '93, grew interested in staying in the city 
after he joined the effort to prevent Fair 
Haven's English Station power plant from 
re-opening. The effort was already under-
way under the leadership of another Yalie, 
Julio Gonzalez, who was serving as the 
Ward 1 Alderman. Montafio enlisted in the 
effort to help protect the nearby residential 
areas from this asthma-inducing plant. 


Chen also found herself motivated by 
local movements to improve the city, even 
before she became interested in going into 
New Haven politics. As undergraduates, she 
and her friend Duff Morton started an orga-
nization called Direct Outreach 
a group 
of students who went to the New Haven 
green to help the homeless camped there. "I 
started feeling more connected to New 
Haven when I started venturing out into the 
community: not being concerned about 
safety issues, seeing New Haven at odd 
hours of the night, and realizing that most 
people's fears are unnecessary, exaggerated." 
It was only when Chen graduated that she 
understood the most effective way to help 
those in need: fight for them with a legiti-
mate political voice. Even though other 
Yalies had moved swiftly from social work 
to city politics, Joyce avoided the beaten 
path 
working with the powerful New 
Haven Democratic Party 
and chose to run 
as a Green. "I investigated the Green Party 
right after I graduated. When I was thinking 
about running, I really felt like I didn't want 
to be tied ·into the machine. I felt like it 
would be difficult to be a Democrat and to 
be independent of that," Chen explains. 


Plus, the New Haven chapter of the Green 
Party surprised Chen. "The party wasn't the 
stereotypical tree-buggers, but people who 
were educated, cared about issues and were 
fighting against the machine." 


Like Chen, Michael Montafio took his 
service experiences to heart and was driven 
to join New Haven's political system. He 
chose the Dems, a decision that should have 
afforded him greater political capital. After 
all, Gonzalez had offered to endorse his can-
didacy for Ward 1 Alderman. But even with 
the endorsement, Montafio faced a compet-
itive race, and the long-touted invincibility 
of the Democratic support let him down. 


Among his opponents was a new arrival, 
freshman Ben· Healey, who, with only limit-
ed experience, found himself with a seat in 
the 
aldermanic 
chamber 
at 
City Hill. 


Ben Healey, who would rise to promi-
nence during his four years as alderman, 
would not have entered the Democratic 
Party had it not been for his friend's older 
sister, Anika Singh, who told Healey, at an 
unremarkable Slifka dinner, "You should 
run." Healey, who comes from an extreme-
ly liberal background, was not necessarily 
the obvious choice. Yet Singh saw in him a 
motivated, idealistic freshman unsullied by 
political ambition. After several weeks of 
contemplating running for a position he 
knew little about, he made a decision that 
would shape his next four years at Yale. He 
decided to do it. After the ballots were 
counted, Healey found himself walking il!to 
City Hall, an 18-year-old college student 
with a day job, alongside thirty adults all 
working to run the city. 


Healey admits that he was not prepared 
for the committee meetings, budget minu-
tia and clashing personalities he found in his 
new job. So he tried to compensate for his 
inexperience. "It was a time of great defen-
siveness for me. I had to pretend I knew a 
lot more than I did, while still figuring out 
how to ask the right questions to learn all 
the things I needed to know." He also rec-
ognizes the sacrifices he has made. "I cer-
tainly gave up a great deal in terms of my 
college experiences, given the amount of 
time, energy, mental capacities I dedicated 
to New Haven," he said. "It's not like get-
ting up on a soapbox and having people lis-
ten to you." Nevertheless, Healey says he 
doesn't regret becoming an alderman. "It 
means something different to read democra-
tic theory in class when you are actually· 
involved in it in New Haven." Despite the 
strength of Yale's curriculum, no classroom 
can compare to the education New Haven 
politics offer. 


But students do not have to win elect-
ed office to benefit from a hands-on city 
education. Currently six undergraduates 
intern in the Mayor's office, including 
Marlon Castillo, Beth France and Whitney 
Haring-Smith. Castillo says he was sur-
prised by the amount of responsibility he 
has been given and the number of projects 
on which he has worked. France, who 
became interested in politics through 
Project Orange, a gay-rights advocacy 
group, found that working in the Mayor's 
public information office taught her. how 
dynamic the city really is. She has gained an 
insider appreciation for the nuances of city 
government. 


For a growing minority of students, 
graduating from Yale does not mean gradu-
ating from New Haven. Robert Smuts, Kate 
McAdams, and Chrissy Bonano all graduat-
ed in 200 1 and now work together in the 
Mayor's office. Former Alderman Julio 
Gonzalez was the executive assistant to the 
Mayor until he stepped down this past 
August. Smuts was recently promoted to 
Deputy Chief of Staff. Several other Yalies 
who have stayed on, namely Karen Dubois-
Walton and Henry Fernandez, 
have 
attained 
important 
positions: 
Chief 
Administrative Officer and Economic 
Development 
Administrator of New 
Haven, respectively. 


This is an exciting time for young 
Yalies 
involved 
in 
New 
Haven 
politics 
that is, if they are progressive. 


Sophie Raseman, who graduated in 2004, 
said that in a largely democratic city, those 
who subscribe to a conservative ideology are 
less likely to stay because there is little 
opportunity to become involved in party 
politics. Even progressives may prefer to 
work in grassroots organizations, rather 
than in city politics. Raseman took a com-
mon route into New Haven politics when 
she started canvassing for Ben Healey, a _ 
frien.d of hers, when he ran for re-election. 
As a freshman, the New York native remem-
bered thinking, "This is a one-horse town. 
I've got to get out of here. I should have 
gone to Columbia." She soon recognized 
New Haven as a potential springboard to 
greater political involvement. Her experi-
ence changed politics from something :: 
abstract 
"something 
people 
do 
on 
CNN" 
to a tangible way to make a differ-
ence. Politics became such a huge force in ·
her life that after graduation she chose to 
make her home in the same city she was 
once intent on leaving. 


In the words of Janna Wagner, "People 
our age are getting re-energized to the polit-
ical process. People have gotten passionate." 


Maybe that's why Beth France remarked 
that those who are most active in local poli-
tics have already begun to speculate about 
who will make up the next generation of 
student politicians. There is always a steady 
stream of team-players to work at City Hall 
and non-profits, but the path to winning an 
alderman's seat is more demanding. Healey 
has been thinking _ about who to endorse 
and, like Gonzalez, he may step down early 
and invoke a committee vote to fill the 
remainder of his term, due to end soon. In 
an era when New Haven is undergoing vast 
improvements, more students are consider-
ing staying. An aldermanic seat, more than · 
ever before, may seem like the ideal first step 
into city politics for Yale graduates. Healey 
hopes to choose a freshman, ·perhaps as 
unsuspecting and unprepared as he was in 
January of2000. He admits it is a huge task 
for a freshman to take on, but he wants 
someone who can serve for at least as long 
as he has. 


Cynthia Okechukwu, a current fresh-
man, got her first taste of politics by can-
vassing for Chen's opponent, Toni Walker, 
after she was encouraged by Yale junior, 
Alyssa Rosenberg, current Ward 22 co-chair. 
Okechekwu was not involved in politics 
before coming to Yale, but decided that 
since she will be turning 18 soon and will 
have the right to vot~, she wants to be more 
politically engaged. She chose Yale because 
she found it to be more integrated into the 
city than the other schools she had consid-
ered. Right now, she is just a freshman tak-
ing her first steps out ofYale's gates and into 
the city. But in four years, she could be 
packing up her Yale dorm room, only to 
move the boxes down the street. 

TNJ 
Concha Mendoza, a junion in 
Branford, is the web Editor for TNJ.


**The New Haven Animal Shelter: A Look Inside**
**Author: Megan O'Connor**
**Page number(s): 24**

OGS 
ESCAPE 
from 
their 
cages all the 
time at the New 
· Animal 
Shelter. Some jump 
over the eight-foot 
cage door; others 
make a run for it 
while being fed or 
collared for a walk. 
On my first day as a 
volunteer, however, I 
let not one dog 
escape, 
but 
two. 


Before I could 
turn around, a lab 
mix and a pit bull were at each other's 
throats. "Bob!" I shouted. My new favorite 
kennel worker barged through the swinging 
doors and picked up both eighty-pound 
dogs by their scruffs, one in each hand, and 
returned them to their cages without a · 
word. 


Bob Bombace is like a four-man Special 
Forces unit. The police seek his help when 
they see a stray, and citizens call him when 
they suspect their neighbors of holding dog 
fights in their basements. When a coyote 
was found rooting through trash cans last 
year, Bob hopped in his van and brought it 
back to the shelter in a plastic dog kennel. 


The shelter is located about two miles 
from campus on Dixwell Avenue. A blue 
sign on th~ front lawn has been cor-
roded by many years and many more 
gallons of dog pee. A plastic bench 
molded in the shape of a couch, like the 
kind you see in a kid's playhouse, ·sits in the 
front room. Everything in the building 
must pass the can-it-be-peed-on test. The 
New Haven Animal Shelter, a division of 
the New Haven Police Department, is the 
largest shelter in Connecticut, taking in 
approximately 2,000 dogs and cats each· 
year and finding owners for 75 percent · of 
them. The shelter attracts over 3,200 visi-
tors annually and can accommodate more_ 
than 60 animals at once. This may seem like 
a lot, but the dog runs are almost always 
full. 


New Haven is a hard city. The few peo-
ple dedicated to caring for New .Haven's 
dogs see plenty of ugliness. Everyone at the 
shelter looks tired. Bob chain smokes what-
ever brand is on sale at the supermarket and 
doesn't say much without being hounded, 
"The job's difficult," he finally told me. 
"The pay is low; we're always short on staff, 
big on problems. It's difficult not to get 
burnt out. We're always looking for volun-
teers who can get past orientation. A lot of 
people look into an animal's eyes and realize 
they can only do so much. They don't like 
to stick around." 


Bob is inundated with negligencalls. 
The complaints go to him when a dog is 
spotted tied up in the snow or "hung," 
meaning the rope is too short for the dog to 
lie down. "It happens a lot," Bob said . 
"They tie them up and leave them outside, 
feed them once in a while and that's it." In 
high-crime areas like New Haven, dogs are 
often used as security devices. It is in cases 
like these that abuse most often occurs. 


One day last year, the shelter got a call 
about barking coming from an abandoned 
house. Bob found a white pit bull hung in 
the basement. She had been there about a 
week, ever since her owners were evicted. 
The dog was so weak that the staff named 
her Skinny and kept her in their office, 
where she slept most of the day in someone's 
lap. As Skinny put on weight, it became evi-
dent that she had been used to fight. The 
moment anyone put a leash on her, she 
jumped and snapped at the air for several 
minutes before eventually calming down. 
The staff wasn't surprised. A common prac-
tice is to leash and bait a dog before a fight, 
eventually creating a Pavlovian response to 
leashes and violence. Similar neuroses 
emerged that rendered Skinny un-adopt-
able. She was put down. 


New Haven is home to a fairly stan-
dardized ring of dog-fighting, using mostly 
pit bulls. Pit bulls are classically chosen as 
fight-dogs because they are strong and can 
be easily trained to fight. Anyone who has 
worked with pits, however, will attest to the 
fact that they are not naturally violent. 
According 
to 
Richard Johnson, 
President of the Connecticut Humane 
Society, "The real problem with pit bulls 
today comes from humans . . . . Since pit 
bulls are exceedingly loyal to their owners, 
an owner who wants a dog to be aggressive 
and reinforces this behavior can create an 
extremely aggressive dog." In fact, according 
to the American Canine Temperament . 
Testing Association, 95 percent of the pits 
that took its temperament test passed, com-
pared to a 77 percent average passing rate 
for all breeds. The pit bull ranks higher for 
temperment than cocker spaniels, german 
shepher~s, chow chows, and chihuahuas. 


Everyone who works at the shelter is 
especially concerned about the pits. "A lot of 
people don't want a dog with a scary face, 
no matter how sweet he is," volunteer Tania 
Sapko said. "It becomes a desperate under-
taking, finding a home for some of these 
guys. 


Despite the constant stream of interest-
ed adopters, finding homes for dogs is diffi-
cult. Taped on the inside of the office door, 
hidden from visitors, are eleven sheets of 
paper 
the "DO NOT ADOPT TO" list. 
Signs are made to warn against the people 
who seem like decent pet-owners and might 
fool the newer volunteers. '!DO NOT 
ADOPTTO SUSAN MARGOLIS 
wants 
a chow for outdoor dog!" Another pro-
claims, "DO NOT ADOPT TO JIM 
CLARKSON 
has two cats and no vet." 


The worst are the "DON'T EVEN THINK 
ABOUT IT ALL AROUND BAD" signs, 
scribbled 
permanent 
marker. 


Another group of would-be adopters are 
barely let in the front door. These are the 
people who create the need for shelters in 
The New Journal 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Megan O'Connor**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the first place, who fight their dogs and 
throw them out when they start losing. 

They come to the shelter looking for fresh 
blood, for fighters or bait-dogs. They ask for 
a pit, walk down the rows of cages, and 
point to the biggest, loudest dog who is 
throwing himself against the door, the one 
who has been in the shelter for months, the 
one that no one else will even look at. "I 
want that one," they say. They don't inquire 
about its history or ask to see how it walks 
on a leash. These people are asked to leave 
and not come back. And they don't, at least 
not during business hours. 

Last year the shelter had a rash of break-
ins and pit thefts. The staff believes local 
teens hopped t}le barbed-wire fences sur-
rounding the cages and somehow got the 
dogs back over with them. 

Of the eight that were 
stolen, a few were found 
roaming the streets, and 
one even came back to the 
shelter on his own. 

Life at the shelter is 
not ideal, but for many 
dogs it's a drastic improve-
ment. The volunteers take 
on a range of duties, 
including 
walking, 
grooming, and coordinat-
ing adoption events. Staff C 
and volunteers try to prep 
dogs 
for 
potential 
adopters, training them to walk on leashes 
and sit quietly beside their walkers. If I'm 
out back with a dog when a car pulls up, we 
stand like two orphans watching a wealthy 
young couple walk through the door. "Sit 
down, Annie," I say. "No one will take you 
if you keep barking like that." The couple 
approaches and I smile. "This is Annie. 
She's a three-year-old terrier mix" 
a euphemism for pit bull 
"who gets along 
well with children and other dogs." The 
woman smiles and edges behind her hus-
band, away from Annie, who's straining at 
her ·leash and drooling. "She's just a little 
excited," I continue. "She's normally very 
calm." After the couple thanks -me and 
walks away, Annie stops pulling and sits 
down beside me, panting. "You blew it, 
girl," I say. "You better shape up; you don't 
have much time left." 

October 2004 

A dog's chances for adoption diminish 
the longer it remains at the shelter. Dogs 
pass their days cooped up in cages sur-
rounded by other dogs who are also going 
crazy. The barking will make anyone's ears 
ring. The more stir-crazy a dog is, the less 
likely anyone is to consider him. 

The volunteers try to compensate for 
this by featuring the older dogs as "Pets of 
the Week." They post signs on their cages 
and on the shelter website, like this one for 
a small pit bull who lived at the shelter for 
six months: 
"My name is Hope. My previous owners 
were a bit neglectful of me and allowed my 
collar to become grown into my neck. So, if 
you come to see me you will notice right 
away that I have a boo-boo around my 
neck. It is healing quickly, I don't even real-
ize that it's there. It doesn't stop me, I'm 
energetic and bouncy. I love people, I love 
to jump on you and kiss you. Affectionate 
and very friendly. PLEASE HELP HER. 
SHE NEEDS TO GET OUT!" 

If the last line seems desperate, it's 
because it is. Shelter workers always fear a 
sudden influx of dogs who need cages that 
aren't available. If a dog has. been in the shel-
ter for a long time and is becoming increas-
ingly undesirable as a pet, he may be put 
down. "It's tough to keep them here too 
long, because their personalities change," 
said volunteer Darlene Koosa. "Scooby 
Doo, for example, he was here when I start-
ed training in May, and now there's defi-
nitely a change. He's more aggressive." 

Scooby Doo is the biggest pit at the 
shelter, as wide as he 'is tall, with one of the 
ugliest faces I've ever seen. This is why, a few 
weeks ago, I decided to take him for a walk. 
I'm trying to work on my shelter image; I'm 
pretty sure the other volunteers purposely 
take out all the big dogs before I ge~ there, 
· leaving me the puppies and miniature poo-
dle. So the other day I arrived early and 
went straight for Scooby's cage. The placard 
hanging on his door said, "Scooby may look 
tough, but he loves to give kisses and would 
make a great lap dog." I looked at him, 
drooling into a puddle between his front 
legs and denting_ the wire mesh door with 
his shoulder, and prepared his choke-chain. 
I crouched and positioned my body so I'd 
be blocking the opening of the cage. I 
unlatched the door but kept it closed with 
my knee, and held out the 
collar between my two 
hands like a eat's cradle. 
The moment I cracked 
open the door, Scooby 
shoved his head tl:trough the 
opening and was on his way 
to freeing his shoulders. I 
grabbed him wherever I 
could (his eye, I think) and 
tried to get his collar on. 
Bob was out on a run, so I 
was on my own. I was hav-
ing no luck with the collar, 
and he was almost com-
pletely out of the cage. In a 
moment of panic, I grabbed him with both 
hands by the scruff of the neck and hurled 
him back in the cage. My heart was pound-
ing, and I lo?ked down only to realize from 
the saliva running off my elbow that my 
forearm had been in his mouth during most 
of the five-minute scuffle, but there wasn't a 
single tooth-mark. 

Scooby reveals a lot about the plight of 
a shelter dog. No one wants him because 
he's strong and scary-looking. He's a 100-
pound dog trapped in a five by fifteen-foot 
cage, and he grows more stir-crazy every 
day. But in a desperate moment when most 
would have defended themselves against the 
girl with her fmger in their eye, Scooby only 
drooled. 


**Title: THE CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

On the Evaluation of Consumables from 
the Nation of Thailand at a Cross-section of 
Restaurants in New Haven, Connecticut, or 
UTongue-thaied.~~ 

Introduction 

The presence of three restaurants containing the word "Thai" in 
their nomenclature, in a 42-foot radius, compels the average Thai 
food (TF) consumer to ask him/herself: at which venue shall I con-
sume? Put another way, given that the distance from consumer X to 
a given restaurant Y is negligible, in which restaurant should con-
sumer X consume? To this end, we have endeavored to identifY cer-
tain defining characteristics of each establishment, so that a discern-
ing consumer could evaluate for him/herself, based on his/her pref-
erences, which restaurant best suits his/her needs. We then proceed 
to analyze these properties and venture an overall recommendation. 

The three establishments under observation are Thai Taste 
(TT), Pad Thai (PT) and Thai Pan Asian (TPA). They are located 
on Chapel Street, in the quadrangle formed · by the cross streets of 
York and Park in New Haven, Connecticut. These restaurants make 
up 50o/o (3 of 6) restaurants on that segment of Chapel Street. 

Methodology 

On Consuming Vast Quantities ofTF 

The data for this article is based on direct consumption of TF 
by the author. Gastrointestinal fortitude permitted the author to 
consume four Thai dinners in the course of a single week {week of 
October 1, 2004). The first meal occurred at Thai Pan Asian, the 
second at the Thai Taste "cart" located on the junction of York and 
Elm Streets, the third at Pad Thai, and the fourth at Thai Taste. At 
each meal, there were from two to thirteen tasters (including the 
aforementioned author, who was present at every tasting), and there 
were two stipulations: (1) two dishes ("Drunken Noodles" and 
"Tom Yum Goong Soup") were to be kept constant at each venue 
and (2) a (relatively) diverse selection was tested. 

Modus Operandi of Documentation 

Materials required: 1. Pencil and 2. Paper 

TF consumption was accompanied by a thorough note-taking 
process documenting the experience, with special attention to (a) 
decor and presentation, (b) in-meal gastronomic pleasure, and (c) 
post-meal sensation. Symptoms of gastric dilatation-volvulus (GDV) 
were the primary criteria for judging post-meal sensation. A disease 
found commonly in basset hounds, GDV occurs when consumables 
are consumed in excessive quantities, resulting in drastic bloating of 
the stomach: 
· ''As the stomach swells, it may rotate 90 to 360 degrees, twisting 
between its · flXed attachments at the esophagus and at the duode-
num. The. twisting stomach traps air, food, and water in the stom-
ach. The bloated stomach obstructs veins in the abdomen, leading to 
low blood pressure, shock, and damage to internal organs. The com-
bined effect can quickly kill a dog."i 

The presence or absence of signs or symptoms of GDV will be 
evaluated in the Results section. 

Thaicumulation and Other Caveats: A Frank Discussion 

The concentrated consumption ofThai food resulted in thaicu-
mulation, ·the dangerous and potentially fatal build-up of Thai food 
in the human digestive system {see Figures l.a. and l.b.). For the 
layperson, this phenomenon can be understood as something akin to 
an overdose. The symptoms of thaicumulation 
most notably, a viscer-
al repulsion to the possibility of consuming a single further drunken 
noodle or curry soaked bamboo shoot 
may have biased the results, 
especially for the fourth restaurant, TT. In addition to the quantita-
tive over-consumption, the intervals between meals also varied and 
may have resulted in some outliers. Two meals (PT anc:t TT) were 
consumed on consecutive evenings (the evenings of October 4 and 
5). This became a potential methodological design flaw evidenced at 
the TT dinner, where this taster not only showed psychosomatic 
signs of overdose but also demonstrated dramatic symptoms of food 
poisoning, including sweating, fever and intense abdominal pain. 
Though food poisoning is most commonly caused by picnics, school 
cafeterias and mayonnaise-based dishes at large social functions, and 
not often associated with too much consump-
tion of o·ne type of food, it should not be excluded as a 
possible explanation for this taster's severe reaction. 

Results 

Figure 1. Cross-Comparison of Fiscal Accessibility of Dinner Items 

This graph charts the prices of a cross-section of dinner items at 
the three restaurants sampled. Striking discrepancies are evident. 
TPA charges 45 cents more for its soups and satays than both PT and 
TT. In fact, the appetizers are over 50 cents more on average at TPA 
than at PT and TT. For noodles, TT is significantly more expensive: 
all noodle dishes are $7.50, whereas at the other restaurants nearly all 
noodle dishes (barring those including duck and some types of 
seafood) are $6.95. Specialty fried rice, including basil and pineapple 
varieties, varies dramatically from $6.50 at PT, to $6.95 at TPA, to 
$7.50 at TT. It is worth noting that the difference between the selec-
tion of chicken, vegetable and seafood (in relation to curries and 
entrees) is more pronounced at TPA and PT-ranging from $6.95 for 
vegetable curry to $10.95 for seafood. See Table 1. 

Table I. Prices for Curries and Entrees Based on Substance 

The most restrictive prices are highlighted for each category. It 
can be concluded that if one's appetite calls for shrimp or squid, 
quality of food should be the sole determining factor in restaurant 
choice as all the prices are eerily identical. For "Mixed Seafood," TT 
yields the best value-but staying in character, TT is certainly the 
worst value for "Vegetable/Tofu." 

Decor and Presentation effectively refer to the 
ambient qualities of the restaurant, an important factor con-
ventional diners consider when dining-out. 
Presentation refers to the manner in which the 
food is arranged by its arranger 
ranging from 0-
5; 0 being roughly equivalent to e.g. pig slop, 5, to 
the molecular structure of ice. TT was especially 
effective in its presentation of comestibles 
there 
was meticulous attention paid to the correlation 
of serving dishes to different categories of food-
type. While the elaborate decor of TT was 
required to counteract the fact that the restaurant_ 
is located in a basement of a ratty hotel, the por-
traits of Thai people (their Thai heritage has not 
been proven. One guest remarked that they seem 
more likely Hawaiian, based on their bone struc- . 
ture) more than make up for the subterranean 
level. 

Table2 
TPA was favored for menu readability and 
selection. TPA has a logical menu every dish is denoted with a let-
ter-number system. A majuscule alpha ('~") corresponds to the 
group of appetizers while "F" corresponds to frog (a category which 
favored TPA heavily in the breadth of selection comparison). 
However, a conflict arose between salads and soups for the letter "S," 
and salads were arbitrarily assigned the letter "Y." (This logic gap 
seems largely unavoidable and was not counted as a point deduction, 
although such a deduction was pondered, and eventually abandoned.) 
potentially irreconcilable problem is that the group headings seem 
redundant and confounding. For example, there exists a general 
category but also a crab, salmon and fish category (the join-
ing of shellfish with their barely-related gill-fish cousins seemed arbi-
trary at best-further, the separation of "salmon" from the other cate-: 
gories of similar dorsal-finned fish was preponderous). This problem 
was identified on every single menu, however, and as it was uniform, 
it did not render a deduction. 




**Title:  A Gastronomic Comparison of Three New Haven Restaurants**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 28 ---

• 
28 
' 
Table 3. 
. .c•H 
. 
OW' tt 
. ' 
gomg .· 
thehat<:h n 
., 
including but not 
lifnitcd to the 
sensation in mouth 
·foods ue 
consu:med.. 
. of 
fats and. s.alb 
$ 
ueall 
Texture: SoJiditv of 
;,· 
to~ crispnen of 
diseemabilitv of 
" 
noodles$ 
.of 
the inner 
o ·falarge 
(>JI. 
cylinder· engine) 
TF 
mn-srunptioat 
-spiciness :as-sociated 
with "hot 
-spicy» 
-
In addition to clarity, figurative language was also judged when 
evaluating readability. We found TPA's menu to be a "page-turn-
er" 
the use of imaginative names such as "Waterfall Beef," "Mary 
Land," and "Thai Pan Fish Delight" (note the double entendre) was 
especially appreciated. PT overused the word "sizzli-ng" and was lin.:. 
guistically inconsistent 
employing both English and Thai in single 
titles. The PT menu was wordy and obfuscatory. Take note: "Soft 
shell crabs spicedwith unique aromatic garlic seasoning fried to per-
fection and topped with crispy garlic." 


In terms of selection, TPA is superior with the longest menu and 
a plethora of frog dishes not offered at any of the competing estab-
lishments. 

Gastronomic enjoyment in-meal (GEI-M) is ranked from · 0 
(lightheadedness and uncontrollable vomiting) to 5 (papillary ecsta-
sy). Gastronomic sensation post-meal (GSP-M) is primarily analyzed 
based on the presence of symptoms of gastric dilatation-volvulus 
after the meal-referred heretofore as the GDV-Test. Results of thiSJ 
test follow the following rubric: the lower the calculated number, the 
stronger the presence of GDV symptoms, including stomach-
wrenching, sweating, lightheadedness and death in some species of. 
dog. The aftermath of the TT meal was the sensory equivalent to the 
aftermath· following the consumption of a strong household cleanser 
heavily flavored with garlic. 

Discussion 

We will analyze the results based on three categories: dining 
pleasure, edibility and price. Dining pleasure, simply stated, is how 
much pleasure is accrued by a diner while eating. The presentation 
of the food on the plate, the ambient qualities of the restaurant, as 
well as the in-meal gastronomic feeling all affect dining pleasure. 
This is a broader category than edibility, which hones in on the food 
itself and asks the question: is it edible? The edibility score, in this 
context, is calculated based on the capacity per person to consume 
and enjoy TF Z, from restaurant Y. This capacity includes in-meal 
gastronomic pleasure, as well as post-meal gastronomic sensation and 
any specific characteristics of the food that might affect its capacity 
to be consumed. Price is based on dollars and hundredths of dollars 
spent per Item. 

TT scored highest for the dining pleasure category. The restau-
rant was full, warm, and the presentation was highly stimulating. 
Furthermore, the food tasted good in-meal. TPA was observably 
deficient in the decor and presentation category: there were two 
other patrons in the establishment. 

Calculating edibility required taking the derivative of the fol-
lowing algorithm: 

_ 
· 
[2(GDV Score) + --J(In-Meal Pleasure)]/[(1/Grease Quotient * 
Spice) *Texture *21t(Taste)] 


--- Page 29 ---

TT was disadvantaged by its GDV-Test score of -9.9x10"23, 
putting it behind even PT. TPA was the inost successful restaurant 
in this category 
only losing points for its overwhelming spiciness. 

A shot of epinephrine (to reverse anaphylactic shock) is recom-
mended to aid in the consumption of any dish labeled "hot and 
spicy." PT was a close second because consumption did not result 
in severe bloating. However, the high abundance of grease in every 
dish left it wanting for first place. Even the soup slid down a little 
too quickly and left one's tongue coated with a slimy residue. 
Additionally, although there were no signs of GDV in tasters, one 
diner referred to his post-meal sensation as that of a "chicken stab-
bing me, drawing intestinal blood, and then the peanut sauce cau-
terizing the wound." PT, however, did win the price category 
it 
is, on average, cheaper than the other two restaurants. To conclude, 
this author recommends Thai Pan Asian-because despite the fact 
that the average dish costs an additional 40 cents and the restau-
rant lacks pictures ofThai princesses, edibility is deemed the high-
est pnonty. 

Acknowledgements 

I would like to thank Lisena DeSantis, Sarah Laskow, Brendan 
Kearney, The New Haven Dice Club, Department of University 
Health, I .ane Rick, Lisa Bozman, Adriane Quinlan, TUMS and 
Michael Addison for providing research and digestive assistance for 
this report. 

Citations 

i "Bloat. Know the Symptoms!" The Daily Drqol, an Internet 
Mail 
List 
for 
Bassets 
and 
Their 
People. 
http://www.dailydrool.com/bloat.html 
ii "Food Poisoning," ENL Medical. Medical Dictionary. 
http://www.enlmedical.com/ article/00 16 52.htm 
. . 
T:\.' J 
Flora Lichtman, a senior in Davenport, is the Editor-
in-Chief of TNJ 
October 2004 
.. 


**Title: Dangerous**
**Author: Fabio Lanzoni**
**Page number(s): 30**

--- Page 30 ---

'.[""U.,L.. s ART GALLERY is passing off forged 
paintings to New York socialites. And 
married Meredith McFee, a femme 
tat:ale who has lured Yale into an illicit affair, 
blackmails him for sexual favors when she 
uncovers the forgeries. Meanwhile, Justine 
DiPerro, Yale's shopaholic fiancee, waits 
quietly at home, unaware of any deceit. Of 
course, Yale can do nothing to end either 
relationship: Justine's mob-boss father has 
always gotten her "whatever she wanted, 
including Yale." Bur Justine is beginning to 
feel that she and Yale belong to different 
worlds. "She didn't know anything about 
art, she thought bitterly, and she didn't like 
eating arugula and capers, and she didn't 
wear retro clothes." IfYale had his way, he'd 
pursue a third prospect, Lexi, the ravishing 
lover of his murdered twin brother, who 
spends her nights dreaming of Yale's "gold-
, 
en mane. 

Three women are bewitched by one· 
man, and the reason they want him is the 
reason we all want Yale: He is "exquisitely 
endowed." 

But he has other selling points: 
Page 395: Yale is "rich, powerful, and 
used to taking what he wants." 
Page 152: Yale has "sold his soul to the 
devil." 
Page 92: Yale prizes ''expensive clothes · 
and impeccable grooming and articulate 
h , 
speec . 
Page 102: Yale acts "above the rest of civ-
ilization . . . in that unreachable nether-
world." 
Page 197: Yale is "competitive, ambi-
tious, even ruthless when it comes to 
business." 
Page 39: Yale "wore khaki shorts and a 
navy fisherman's knit sweater." 
30 
Page 129: Yale is "a snob who only 
drank bottled water." 
Page 296: Yale is a "cold, uncaring son-
of-a-bitch." 
Page 231: Yale is "Mr. Wonderful." 
"Everything about Yale said class-and 
WASP," writes Fabio Lanzoni, in his adult 
novel, Dangerous. Though I'm embar-
rassed to be seen reading a book written by 
Fabio (a man whose fame is as inexplicable 
as his silky gold mane, an author whose 
prose is as intractable as his recovery from 
"facial reconstruction surgery" after he 
killed a seagull mid-roller-coaster ride), I 
can't help mysel£ I am in love with every 
sugarcoated syllable. 

Upon graduation (my well-thumbed 
copy of Dangerous hidden dangerously 
beneath my sweltering navy robe), I will 
imagine myself as Justine, who, unsatisfied 
and alone, shouts in a crowded bar, "To hell 
with Yale!" Or I will be Lexi, his deepest 
connection, and a woman mysterious 
enough to have won him over: "'I love you, 
Yale,' she said as he'd started the motor and 
pulled away." 

Yale is always driving off, always pulling 
away. He is arrogant, beautiful, distant, 
charming. He is eve 
· g we Ca.me here 
for. But he lets us down. He is a criminal. 
He takes advantage of women, only to cast 
them aside pages later. And most unloving 
of all, he cannot throw pebbles against my 
stained-glass window the night before finals, 
he cannot hold me· close on my common 
room futon: he is empty and cold and non-
existent. Yale Bradigan, despite his "sea-
foam eyes" and the way he "fills" his lovers 
with "molten pleasure," is nothing more 
than a copy of a copy of a copy. Though I 
pretend to know Yale, I know only a carica-
ture, an amalgamation of my hidden lust for 
cobbled courtyards, round wooden tables, 
Masters' teas and Sunday morning brunch-
es. 

Justine DiPerro, Yale's jealous fiancee, cap-
tures it all when she despairs, "This was 
ridiculous, this fantasizing about Yale." And 
by page 200, she realizes, broken-hearted, 
facing the mirror and watching the mascara 
run down her pallid face, "Yale loved only 
himsel£" 

Accusations fly. Yale falls from his pedestal. 
Peccadilloes with "arugula and capers" 
become fiery enough fodder for a Jerry 
Springer smack-down. Married Meredith 
screams at him from the tussled bed sheets, 
"You were using me, Yale ... for sex, because 
I was far more experienced than the college 
girls you were used to." Ah, le !igh, as I real-
ize that I, myself, am only a college girl. But 
then again, if Yale's not using women for 
th 
1 . 
'"M 
sex, there s one o er comp atnt: 
oney, 
she said, venom in her voice, 'that's all that 
ever mattered to you, isn't it, Yale?"' 

'"What are you laughing at?' Yale asked. 
"N thin " 
0 
g. 

Adriane Quinlan, a sophomore in 
Calhouse, in Production Manager for 
NJ. 



**Title:  GRAPHIC DISIGN**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
r 
GRAPHIC: DISIGN 
·· c··. · ·s· 
I . . 
. 
a un~tt o·f lnt,o 
1t::>C:; '}-~[i~ii¥>l' ·· ~ ... 
.t.~~ I!J:~· ..•• •, 
.. w"~ ., ll[{il . b~· "\f ~·l*>* u.-~;; 
~·· .. ·~'·'··""" . . 
,IO,urnals 
PRODUCTION SERVICES 
OFfSET PRttmNG 
co·ror 
'La fie 
1\ 
I 
(0(1\) 
OCR 
' 
.. 
erv1ces 
•• 
Nr..: &;&Jf!ll 
.. :"'"" . 
'lnsedJ,"I· 
.M' ... ....._.-...,. 
. . _ ... ,,f ... 
Boo
klet
. . 
.... 
::_~ 
Custom 





**Title: Menu**
**Page number(s): 32**

258 COLLEG.E STR~ET • NEW HAVEN, CT 06510 
PHONE: (2-0~) 785-01·04 .. • : FAX: (203) 785-0135 
HOI'J 
- -·3 
-· .•... 
. Fried Eggs ...• ~ ...•..•......... S 1.85 
Eggs with Bacon, 
· 
Sausage, or Ham ............ ~ .•• $ 2.19 
Eggs with Canadian Bacon ••••••.•• $ 3.00 
................... * ••• .••• $ 3.50 
, 
l !Buffalo Wings (10) ...•............. $ 5.00 
! 
f 
Hot ond Spicy with Jluft ell• .,. Olp 
_ 
)Chicken Fingers (7) ••••••••• ~· •• · •••• $ 5.00 
-
. ---
ol STA••' ond $out Soucw or Tantt a.a.Q. 
'Potato Skins (5) ..............•.... $ 5.00 
ToppH wlfh 8ocon & Chttd· 
Fried .Zucchini ••.•••••••••.•••••.• S 5.00 
\.Uallt'btr Gotfk Oip or lfollan MotfnciiO Souc. 
Fried Calamari ••••••.•••.•••••••• $ 5.00 
WJth 
Mozzarella Sti¢ks (~) •..•••.••.•.•.. $ 5.00 
With Morlnoro 
Jalapenos Poppers (6) ••............ $ 5.00 
WlthO.Om 
Jumbo Shrimp Cocktail (4) 
. ... . . . 
... s 6.00 
•a··= '" -. 
Omelet • ~ •••••••••••••••••••• $ 3.75 
Sausage, or Ham ·Omelet •••••• $ 4.50 
Omelet ••••••••••••••••• $ 4.50 
Omelet 
• • • • • • 4 
• • S 4.50 
or Spanish Omelet 
• '! •••••••• $ 5.00 
Omelet •••••••••••••••• $ 5.00 
Omelet •••••••.••••••••••••• $ 5.00 
Omelet with Bacon, 
and Ham ••••• 
-~ ••• ~ ·· :.:~~- ....... $ 5. 9-S 
· .,- .. --
white Omelet • ', ••••• ~ ,, •••••••• $ 5.95 
SEVEN DAYS A.WEEK 
• • 
" 
rg,r ............ ,.. . . . . . . . . .$ 3.00 
Deluxe "Yiilh t.ttuc., tornoto, French fri•, and col• slaw" .$ 4.50 
Cheeseburger ••••••••.•••.••••.•. $ 3.50 
Del_. "wilh lelluc., tomato, F,.neh hiH, ond cole slow" .• $ 5.00 
Burget •••...••••.•.••••... $ 4.25 
..,. .. uiih leHUC41, ton10to, French fries, ond cole stow• .$ 5.50 
ble Hamburger ••••• .•••••.•.... S 4.50 
uxe "wilh lettuce, tomato, Fntnch fries. ond cole slow" .$ 6.00 
ble Cheeset»urger .• · .••••••••••. $ 5.00 
to1110to, ~me., oftd cot.afow• .$ 6.50 
Dog ...•....••.......• , ..••. $ 2.50 
WJth any hms odd $ 0.50 
Salad ........................ $ 3.95 
Salad . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . ... $ 4.25 
Salad ••••..•••••••••••.•. $ 4.95 
·····~ .. ····--··· .... , .... .._ 
...................... ._ •••••• $ 5.00 
Ham ............................. $ 5.00 
Chicken Salad •.•.••••••••••.••••• S 5.00 
Egg Salad ......................... $ 5.00 
Roast Beef ••••••.••••••••••..••• $ 5.50 
rkey ........................... $ 5.50 
i ........................ $ 5.50 
Salad .... ·· ....•.....•..... $ 5.50 
............................ $ 6.00 
...................... s 6.00 
Chicken - • ·-. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . .$ 6.00 
Hot Turkey •....••.....•....•.... $ 7.50 
!Hot Roast Beef . • •..•••••........•• $ 7.50 
[Chicken Fingers Oinner .....•.•.•... $ 7.50 
!Chopped Sirloin w/Fried Onions ••...•• $ 7.50 
·chicken Sot~vlaki Dinner •..•••....•• $ 7.50 
!Fried Shrimp Dinner .••......•..••.• S 8.50 
........................ $7.50 
Loaf ......•...........•..•. $ 7.50 
n Chips 
. . . • • • . . • • . . . • • • . • . •• S 6.50 
Parm ........... .- ...•..... $ 6.50 
plant Parm 
.•.•.•......•...••• S 5. 95 
k Cheese on Hard Rolf ..••..•. ' ••• $ 4.99 
On Sub .•••.••.••.•...•••..• $ 5. 99 
B.B.Q Chicken on Hard Roll ••.•...•.• $ 4.99 
On Sub ....•..............•. $ 5.99 
Eggplant Parm on Hard Roll ........•• $ 4.50 
On Sub ...................... $ 5.50 
BLT 
.•••.............•••...•..• $ 3.69 
Grilled Cheese ..•......•..••.••.• $ 2. 99 
!Grilled Cheese with Tomato ••..••••.• $ 3.50 
1 Grilled Cheese with Bacon . . • • • • . •• ~ • $ 3. 99 
Grilled Cheese with Ham ••.•.....••• $ 3.99 
Tuna Melt .•.•••••....•..••••.•.• $ 4.50 
1 Filet of Sole ..••.••••••••.•..•••• S 4.50 · 
; Gyro 
. ~ ...•..........•...•..... $ 5.25 
, Chicken Souvfaki •.••....•...••...• $ 5.25 
~ cLuasa 
~ 
Tur.key Club 
• . . . • • • • • • • • . . • . . .•• $ 5. 7 5 
Ham Club ••••.•..••.••..••••••.. $ 5.50 
B.L.t Club ...•••••.•••.•••.•.••. $ 5 .. 50 
' Hamburger Club .••...•••.••.•..•• $ 5.50 
Cheeseburger Club ••••••••••..•••• $ 5.75 
Chicken Salad Club ...••.••..••.•.• S 5.50 
Tuna Club .•••....•...•...•.•...• $ 5.50 
SPICIAL 
Hot or Cold sandwiches 
On Sub or Hard Roll 
Ham .....•••••.•........•..•.•. $ 4.72 
:Turkey 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .• S 4. 72 
Roast Beef 
• . • • . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . • . . $ 4. 72 
Salami ...... , .................. $ 4. 72 
:Bologna ......................... $ 4.72 
lPastrami .•..••.....•....•.•...•. $ 4.72 
Liverwurst . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . .. S 4. 72 
\Italian Combo ••.••••••.•......••• $ 5.66 
;Chicken Cutlet · : ~ ••••.•••..•••••.• $ 5.66 
iChieken Parm ••••••••....•• 1 • ••.• $ 5.66 
'·spicy Chicken •• . l ................ $ 5.66 
Meatbatl ............. 
~ ................. $ 5.66 
Sausage and Peppers 
.•••..••.•.••• $ 5.66 
Vegetabfe-Buraer_ •. : . •.•.•.••••..• $ 5.66 

