Publication date: October 2008
Volume: 41
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Lauren Harrison
- Editor-in-Chief: Nicole Allan
- Managing Editors: Amy Fish, Mitch Reich
- Designers: Alice Buttrick, Aimee Marquez
- Senior Editors: Nick Handler, Jordan Jacks
- Production Manager: Ben Lasman
- Photo Editor: Miranda Popkey
- Web Editor: Ali Seitz
- Associate Editors: Laura Bennett, Sarah Nutman, Kate Selker
- Research Director: Laura Yao
- Copy Editor: Alexandra Schwartz
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Roger Cohn, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Daphne Chu, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, R Anthony Reese, Rollin Riggs, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Propo~co and David Sulsman, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Jessica Winter, Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- SNAPSHOTS
- 12 BUILDING BLOCKS - Sarah Nutman
- 20 WHAT OB OWES NEW HAVEN - Ben Lasman
- 34 MAPQUEST - Laura Zax
- 9 THE NUCLEAR TESTAMENT - Kate Selker
- 17 CONTINENTAL DRIFT - Sophie Quinton
- 4 POINTS OF DEPARTURE
- 7 PROFILE - A Light Touch - Amy Fish
- 29 PERSONAL ESSAY - Bare Market - Laura Bennett
- 31 THE CRITICAL ANGLE - StuckK - Haley Cohen
- 38 ENDNOTE - The Book of Goldman - Dara Lind


**Title: SNAPSHOTS**
**Author:  [No author listed]**
**Page number(s): 3**


**Title: 12 BUILDING BLOCKS**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 12**


New Haven models new development on an old 
urban ideal.


**Title: WHAT OB OWES NEW HAVEN**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 20**


The city's black leaders speak.


**Title: MAPQUEST**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 34**


Where in the world of academia is geography?


**Title: THE NUCLEAR TESTAMENT**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 9**


The Yale Divinity School talks disarma anent.


**Title: CONTINENTAL DRIFT**
**Author: Sophie Quinton**
**Page number(s): 17**


As a legendary philosopher concludes his career, 
the Yale Philosophy Department contemplates its 
future.


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: PROFILE: A Light Touch**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 7**



**Title: PERSONAL ESSAY: Bare Market**
**Author: Laura Bennett**
**Page number(s): 29**


**Title: THE CRITICAL ANGLE: StuckK**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 31**


**Title: ENDNOTE: The Book of Goldman**
**Author: Dara Lind**
**Page number(s): 38**




**CAN'T HARDLY WASTE**
**Author: Kanglei Wang**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
They amass: dented green beads one 
pea-hater culled from a plate of penne; 
French fries soggy with ketchup; the 
crisp curled edges of a cheese omelet. 


Every few hours, an army of leftovers 
retreats on gray trays into Yale kitch-
ens, where the food residue, unseen and 
forgotten by those responsible for it, is · 
washed down the drain. 


Yale handles five hundred tons of bio-
degradable dining hall waste each year. 


Unlike pantry waste (expired bread or 
rotten tomatoes), preparation food waste 
(turkey trimmings), and serving waste 
(that tray of lasagna that sat out for 
hours), plate waste doesn'r usually end 
up in the dumpster. Instead, as food is 
scraped off plates, special pulpers, filters, 
or floating tanks 
the precise technol-
ogy varies by college 
catch the residue, 
which is then pumped out by an inde-
pendent disposal company hired by Yale. 


The remaining greasy mess is sent to 
the Water Pollution Control Authority, 
which treats the water before sending it 
on its way to Long Island Sound. 


This fall, a composting pilot program 
run by the Yale Recycling Office aimed 
to alter that time-honored journey. From 
the start of the fall term until October 
10, leftover meals, peels, rinds, bones, 
wooden stirrers, napkins, and other 
biodegradable dining accessories from 
Commons and the Branford, Saybrook, 
and Twmbull dining halls were rerouted 
for compost collection. 


Composting addresses 
solid, 
un-
touched food that would otherwise 
be thrown out as well as the food, oil, 
and grease (affectionately acronymed 
FOG) that washes off plates. As lare as 
1990, Yale sent both kinds of waste to 
local pig farmers, who happily fed it ' · 
to their hogs. One such farmer would 
tote a 55-gallon drum on top of his car 
to pick up liquid food slop from Com-
mons. But both farmers and dining hall . · 
workers grew dissatisfied with the ar-
rangements. Moreover, the pig farming 
industry was in decline, and with the 
advent of trichinosis, a disease circulated 
by infected meat, Connecticut forbade 
livestock from ingesting post-consumer 
food that hadn't been thermally treated. 


The last farmer who continued to pick 
up food from Yale eventually opted for 
Dunkin' Donuts instead: his pigs liked 
the doughnuts, and they were legal, far-· 
tening, and dry. 


Yale's current food waste isn't pretty. 


Under this fall's pilot program, about 
1,500 pounds of decaying food waste 
from Commons alone waited for each 
thrice-weekly 
pick-up. . Dining 
hall 
workers say they didn't mind the new 
system. After all, rotting food was noth-
ing new, even if it was going into a dif-
ferent place. 


Under the new program, the food 
waste Was sucked up by John?s Refuse 
and Recycling trucks and transported to 
New Milford, 65 miles from Yale, where 
it composted for sixty days before being 
transformed into fertilizer. Yale's leftover 
food thus became part of a process that 
changed food waste to pure organic top-
soil. "The food was wonderful," says CJ 
May. "Now we're making it wonderful 
again." May is Yale's recycling coordi-
nator, outspoken and energetic, with 
rolled-up sleeves and a grey ponytail. His 
cluttered office in the basement ofWelch 
Hall is decorated with shirts reading, 
"TALK TRASH TO ME." 


May shares a vision for Yale's trashy 
future in which he would take a pile of 
fertilizer made from the University's food 
waste and dump it in Beinecke Plaza 
with a sign informing students, "This is 
Where Your Food Went." He admits that 
"it's hard to get philosophical" about 
composting. "When it comes down to 
it, it's numbers." But it's also education. 


May recalls the day a woman attending 
a composting demonstration he hosted 
picked up a handful of compost after-
math and finally understood that the 
beautiful, rich soil she held in her hands 
came from food. That day, May says, 
"she got it." 


For now, the biggest hurdle to cam-
pus-wide composting is Yale's lack of 
local facilities and infrastructure to ac-
commodate its food waste. In an attempt 
to fill part of this gap, the University is 
planning a trial with the Somat eCorrect 
Waste Reducer. The new system would 
take some time to set up (the machines, 
which are as big as compact cars, require 
a lot of space) and much capital invest-
ment (a single machine for average use 
will cost up to $16,000) but it would en-
able Yale to do one step of com posting on 
its own. The Somat reduces the volume 
and weight of food by about 80 percent, 
with distilled water as a byproduct. The 
final product is thus dry 
not "yucky," 
according to May. Since it is not pure 
compost and probably cannot be directly 
used as fertilizer, no one has figured out 
what to do with the devolumized waste. 


Still, the reasoning goes, one hundred 
tons of food waste is at least better than 
five hundred. 


Most Yalies, however, never noticed 
the pilot program happening under their 
noses. As dining hall workers obligingly 
ran the show backstage, Yale diners were 
held no more responsible for their waste 
than before. Despite May's fond memo-
ries of those who "got it," the army of 
food waste marches on, untouched by its 
creators. 


-Kanglei U/ang 


**LIQUOR RUN**
**Author: Jordan Jaelts**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Social settings can often be used as ball-
park barometers for our nation's overall 
health. Judging from what I saw on Met-
ro-North's Bar Car last week, America 
may be in for a rough ride. 


The Bar Car is exactly that: a single 
coach that sells copious amounts of al-
cohol to businessmen on their way 
home to their families in Connecticut. 
Metro-North has nine of them, and tP,ey 
run weekdays during the evening rush.: 


They're a lot like regular cars, but in~tead; 
of seats they have a bar and cocktail-
style lounging arrangements. During' 
the commute, a few lonely people dot 
the circular seating areas near the often-
faulty bathrooms, and everyone else 
packs into the middle of the car, near the 
bar. As is true for all the other Metro~ 
North cars, the lights are fluorescent and 
the floor is dirty. There is also strange, 
jungle-themed bamboo wallpaper. 


The first time. I rode the Bar Car, I 
disembarked inspired and more than a 
little unsteady. It was this past summer, 
I was leaving New York, and all around 
me merry businessmen on their evening 
~ommutes home were getting riotously, 
Inexcusably drunk. Everyone called out 
to people by their first names. I ordered 
a Heineken, and another, and another. 
1he roorii was full of half-tied ties and 
market banter. The toilet overflowed. I 
Watched a balding man seduce a beauti--
ful woman. 


But that was before Merrill, before Le-
hman, before September and bailouts,. iri 
the halcyon days of summe~ 2008. When 
the "fundamentals" of our economy w.ere 
still strong, even if they weren't. Before . 
this fall, the greatest challenge the Bar 
Cars faced was the possibility of Metro-
North closing them down, which would 
have happened in 2007 had not dozens 
of brave commuters signed a petition to 
save them. But as I rode the booze ex-
press back to New Haven, it became ap-
parent that the already-endangered Bar 
Cars and the financial titans whom 
they water 
face dizzying problems ih 
the months ahead . 


The first tip: The car was nearly empty; 
I was one of eight passengers. The second 
tip: There were no women. Before we left, 
an old lady stepped in briefly, laughed, 
and walked away. Another ordered a gin 
and tonic and scuttled off to the front 
of the train. From an anthropological 
standpoint, any open social setting'--
especially an alcoholic one-devoid of 
gender diversity is probably unhealthy. 


Things were not looking good. 


People loosened their ties and brood-
ed silently. No one knew anyone's name. 
"It's like being in a really shitty jungle 
club drinking beer out of plastic bottles," 
~ne man told me. The floor looked grim-
Ier than usual, and the smell of disinfec-
tants and old urine 
so charming in the 
cargo-hold crowding of earlier days:-
just seemed tired. 


Gone were the shouts of frat-boys-
!- gone-Wall-Street; instead, a man com-
plimented my copy of Blood Meridian. 
I grimaced 
I didn't come to the bar car 
for literary companionship. 


I noticed that the beer prices, long 
admired for their consistency, had been 
slightly raised. I asked the bartender if 
people were drinking more now that the 
economy was bad. She looked at me and 
shook her head, but I suspected a differ-
ent story. 


As the car slowly emptied, I thought 
about my Bar Car frolic not so long ago. 
Where were the drunken analysts, their 
ties flung over their shoulders? Where 
were the puddles of Sam Adams on the 
floor, racing toward the back of the train? 
We passed Westport and I was the only 
one left. I was getting nervous. We were 
hurtling into darkness, the Bar Car a 
seeming symbol for a state in decline. I 
needed another beer. When I got up to 
the bar, my Stella was $3.50. I was a dol-
lar short. 


-Jordan ]aelts. 


**BARN IN THE USA**
**Author: Elizabeth Deutsch**
**Page number(s): 6**

BARN IN THE USA 
Not yet weathered by the elements, 
the light lumber frame stood. A small 
band of students and a few professional 
builders, distinguished as much by their 
confidence on ladders as their yellow 
shirts, balanced atop the slats of the 
newly-raised roof. The whir of a single 
drill jarred me out of the idyllic scene, 
void of technology until the sound of 
the tool. This September Saturday had 
drawn a crowd of local families, scrag-
gly students, and sustainable building 
enthusiasts to see the raising of the Yale 
Farm's new pavilion. 


The event 
billed as a barn raising 
despite the fact that the open structure 
is more roof than barn 
signaled both a 
beginning and an end at the Farm. The 
following Friday, Josh Viertel, co-found-
er and co-director of the Yale Sustainable 
Food Project, left New Haven to become 
the president of Slow Food USA. The pa-
vilion was his last nourishing contribu-
tion to the Yale community. 


Just eight years after Viertel's·arrival at 
Yale, the Yale Farm and the Sustainable 
Food Project have become an integral 
part of Yale's culture and educational 
philosophy. The farm is about more than 
just food production: "It's an educational _ 
facility," said Viertel. ''And to maximize 
education, we needed a space for educat-
ing on a rainy day, a place where our stu-
dents can find shade, a structure that al-
lows us to gather together for workshops, 
for community." They needed a "barn." 


Cpnstruction of the pavilion evolved 
from sustainable ethics, or the desire to 
minimize environmental impact and 
support local industries. To ensure that 
construction of this educational space 
was educational in practice, Viertel and 
his colleagues had students do it them-
selves. 


A traditional barn raising might look 
something like this: Farmer Jebediah 
needs a barn, so he calls some buddies 
(sans phone, of course 
it is the 18th 
century), the whole community moseys 
on down, dears the ground, lays in the 
lumber and hardware, and, with a series 
of collective "heave-hos," lifts each beam 
into place. Now imagine that Jebediah is 
your roommate, invitations are sent via 
email, and the community treks up Sci-
ence Hill. The "barn-raising" at the Yale 
Farm was as authentic as it could have 
been, given the century. Using ropes, a 
dozen screws, and that old-fashioned, 
can-do colonial spirit, the barn was 
raised entirely by hand. 


Brendan Matthews, the head of the 
Barn Raisers, a professional team of 
sure-footed, yellow-shirted experts who 
guided Yalies as they tripped over ropes 
and attempted not to hammer their fin-
gers, attended his first barn-raising at 13. 
He was so moved by the communal con-
struction of something tangible that he 
knew he wanted to build barns (or pavil-
ions, as the case may sometimes be) for 
the rest of his life. 


Viertel felt a similar thrill at the 
September event. "This shows us what 
communities can accomplish," he said . 
"Something as elementary as picking up 
one of these support slabs is impossible 
for a single pair of hands. But together 
we built this." 


The barn is the most sustainable build-
ing on campus: With no insulation, elec-
tricity, or plumbing, its carbon footprint 
is negligible. It also may be the building 
which most belongs to Yale. What we 
think of as Yale architecture is not Yale's 
but rather imitation Cambridge and 
Oxford, complete with acid-aged stone. 


Lacking four walls and a floor, the pavil-
ion does not pretend to be anything it 
is not (except, perhaps, a barn). Its lum-
ber originated in the Yale Forest, where 
Forestry School students marked and, 
with the help of a team of undergrads, 
cut trees. Shaped and erected by Yale 
hands, the pavilion is a structure ofYale, 
by Yale, and for Yale. 


At the communal dinner after the rais-
ing, food and flowers stretched from the 
pavilion to the street. As the sky dark-
ened, barn raisers and curious onlookers 
alike gathered under the new pavilion for 
a good old-fashioned contra dance. "The 
building held this incredible energy," re-
flected Viertel. "The barn just worked. 
And I realized, in that moment, that I 
could step out and all this will continue. 
It has its own energy now." 


Since that day, the traditional pine 
branch nailed to the barn's roof, a talis-
man for long life, has already started to 
break apart. When it finally detaches, the 
pavilion will stand as ifit has always been 
there, rooting us to Yale and Yale to the 
land. 


-Elizabeth Deutsch 
T 
Illustrations by Ali Seitz



**Title: All Hitched**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Award-winning filmmaker teaches Yalies to let go.


Film, says Laura Poitras, "takes over your
whole world."
Poitras is young-looking, with pretty,
thick-lashed brown eyes. She gestures
delicately with her long, pale fingers,
speaking softly and lifting her voice to
curl statements into questions: "I think
we should just talk about ideas?" She is
fond of saying "like" and "totally," and
there is something girlish about the way
she forms her l's
lightly, with the very
tip of her tongue. She is hardly the pic-
ture of a war-zone reporter.
Yet she is now working on the second
film of a planned trilogy about the af-
termath of September 11. The first, the
2006 Iraq documentary My Country,
My Country, launched her to national
prominence with Oscar and Indepen-
dent Spirit Award nominations. Despite
her subject matter, Poitras insists, "I just
think of myself as an artist .... Before this
I wasn't running around going to war
zones. I'm not, like, a war filmmaker."
Until recently, she wasn't even a docu-
mentary filmmaker. Poitras started in
the '80s as a chef in expensive French
restaurants in San Francisco. As the
work slowly sapped her love of cooking,
she turned to another sort of craft, tak-
October 2008


ing classes in avant-garde film and even-
tually leaving the restaurant for her new
love. She eventually drifted to cinema ve-
rite, recording "truth" without artificial
devices like interviews or the filmmaker's
visible presence. Her 2003 film Flag 'Wars
was her first documentary, the globally
acclaimed My Country, My Country her
·second. She is now working on the sec-
ond installment of her 9/11 trilogy. Film
has taken Poitras over, and she has rio
plans to shake its hold.

Her mantra is simple. She
asks of films-her own and
others' only one thing:
"I
want to be moved."

"That experience of filming, that's
what I live for," she explains. "When
you're really capturing something that's
happening before you just in really hu-
man terms. Really surrendering, forget-
ting your ego and just being present and
telling a story
there's just nothing like
it when it's happening."

Surrendering: Poitras uses the word as
if she had fallen into her success. As if she
were watching a film instead of making
one. Watching, of course, is how her love
of movies developed: "Like, Mean Streets
by Scorcese when I was 15. Everything
about it a dark theater with popcorn
and seeing and watching an image as a
story unfolded in front of me
it's one
of the best experiences. It's still com-
pletely satisfying." Her cinematic taste
ranges widely, from classic movies to
the avant-garde genre in which she was
trained. Her mantra is simple. She asks
of films
her own and others'
only
one
thing:


IN A CLOSET-SIZED ROOM in the Yale
Digital Media Center for the Arts, seven
students
all female
are engaged in
a heated debate. The members of this
year-long documentary film workshop,
designed for Film Studies senior projects
(although only two rn.embers of the class
are in the major), are discussing their ap-
proach to a group documentary on the
November 4 elections. As the conversa-
tion jumps from the significance ofNew
Haven's homeless population to the Sci-
ence Hill cupcake cart, Poitras listens in-
tently, resting her chin on her hands. As
a guest professor, Poitras has stepped into


--- Page 8 ---

the shoes of documentary greats like D.
A. Pennebaker, who traditionally teaches
this class. But Poitras speaks unassurn-
ingly, like an eighth student, and the stu-
dents interrupt her just as often as they
interrupt each other. This is group brain-
storm: relaxed and free of hierarchy.

'Just, like, surrender. And if
it doesn't turn out, it's really
okay?" The class laughs guilt-
ily, caught in the act.

Near the end of the class, once the
group has agreed, mostly, on a plan of
action for their election documentary,
Poitras gently moves back into teach-
ing mode. "Just, like, surrender. And if
it doesn't turn out, it's really okay?" The
class laughs guiltily, caught in the act.
"Try to make it observational and not
interject too much. Surrender to what-
ever happens."

She tells a story. To make My Country,
My Country, which centers on the 2005
elections for the Iraqi Transitional Na-
8
tiona! Assembly, Poitras filmed in Iraq
for eight months, mostly living with
and shadowing a middle-class Baghdad
physician and local activist named Dr.
Riyadh. In the film, Dr. Riyadh runs
for the Baghdad Provincial Council as a
member of the Sunni-run Iraqi Islamic
Party. When the Sunni leadership decides
to boycott the elections, Dr. Riyadh still
seems committed to voting. But on elec-
tion day
the climax of Poitras's work-
Or. Riyadh stays horne, sending his wife
and children to vote alone.

"So Dr. Riyadh
the day of the elec-
tion I had gotten permission to go to
the polling center with him ... and then
he totally didn't go out, he didn't leave
the house? And I was like, my film is
ruined!" Everyone laughs. "The film is
ruined, nothing happened, because my
main character is chicken. And I called
my producer and I was like, 'It's terrible.
It's terrible, he didn't go out.' " Though
some of the students begin their own
conversation, Poitras continu.es in her
usual quiet way. "But then after, I real-
ized: It actually made the story more
tragic. It's kind of like this surrender, like
you have these ' certain expectations that
things are going to be a certain way ... but
other things can happen that might be
more interesting. So just go with it."

The class chews on this. Then a girl
asks, "How many minutes are we shoot-
ing for?" Poitras laughs. The girl adds,
"Just
relax," Poitras says. "Totally re-
lax.


FoR PoiTRAS, ARTISTIC surrender opens
the door to action. "There's a certain kind
of magic that happens," she explains.
"When you're filming something and
there's some kind of dramatic moment
happening, I'll climb buildings; I'm to-
tally not shy. When I have a camera in
my hand I sort of become another per-
son." The camera is her superhero cape,
but it brings her closer to, not farther
from, reality.

She wants her students to climb
buildings, too, if not leap atop them in
a single bound. She likes that the class is
about "making things" instead of talking
about them. The class jokes about per-
suading construction workers on Science
Hill to lift a student or two in a crane,
high above treetops, for a bird's-eye shot
of the city. They are only half-kidding.
Filmmaking requires "just jumping into
the world," Poitras says, "stepping out-
side your comfort zone" into a reality
that defies theory.

She loves the play between what she
expects to happen and what actually hap-
pens in front of her camera lens. Between
documentary filmmaking as real-time
movie watching
not so different from
Mean Streets at 15
and as a controlled
artistic act. She made .My Country, My
Country both to record history and to
offer her own vision of the war in Iraq.
It was a visceral urge, she explains, "like
when you feel like you need to say some-
thing." Even when she wears her cape,
she remains half-Clark, half-Superman.

In perhaps her most superhuman
feat, Poitras shot most of My Country,
My Country in a language she couldn't
understand. Filming subjects in Arabic
without a translator, she worked by feel,
using her instinct partly as a filmmaker,
but mostly, she claims, as a human be-
ing. "I pretty much know, 'This moment
is going to be good.' There's something
about human drama that you can almost
see in a clearer way when you don't know
the language.'' Still, once back in Amer-
ica, receiving the translation of her foot-
age was "like Christmas. Or Ramadan,
or whatever."

In the last scene of My Country, My
Country, after Dr. Riyadh hears that he
has lost the election, he stands in the
doorway of his living room speaking to
his wife and daughters, who smile and
"Bravo, bravo.
I knew it was the
last scene," Poitras recalls. "I thought it
was a save-the-day kind of thing." To
Poitras, the family seemed to be honor-
ing their father for his heroic efforts to
help his country. The eventual translation
shocked her: Dr. Riyadh, the stubborn
patriot, announces to his family that he
wants to leave the country. His all-female
audience responds: Bravo, Riyadh, you
finally came to your senses! While film-
ing the scene, Poitras says, "I didn't know
it was sarcasm, so I completely misread
the situation
but it was still the end of
the film."

She was both right and wrong, in con-
trol and in surrender.


Amy Fish, a senior in jonathan Edwards
College, is a managing editor of
THE NEW JOURNAL



**Title: The Nuclear Testament**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 9**

The Yale Divinity School talks disarmament.


Standing in the Yale Divinity School
common room, beneath the benevolent
gaze of portraits of deans past, were a
Navy officer, a United Nations diplomat,
and a slew of clergy from around the
country. They were mostly white, mostly
male, and mostly middle-aged
not the
usual demographic to be discussing "vul-
nerability." But as the room filled with
the melodies of choir practice from across
the quad, the crowd spoke of an "anx-
ious age." Though the only weapons on
the premises were special YDS ballpoint
pens poised to fill tender Moleskines and
stern legal pads, the assembled were con-
vinced they were not safe.

Participants in the Divinity School's
annual Sarah Smith Conference gath-
ered on Prospect Street to talk about
nuclear nonproliferation. Held in honor
of YDS graduate and Methodist moral
leader Sarah Smith, who died in 1999,
By Kate Selker
the conference was designed to focus on
different issues of ethical and religious
relevance; in recent years, it has centered
on homelessness and public faith. This
year's topic, in line with Yale's push for
global engagement and growing aca-
demic angst over nuclear policy, was ''Are
We Safe Yet? Vulnerability and Security
in an Anxious Age." The question drew
a crowd of 112 from across the North-
east, as well as some from as far away as
the UK, Canada, and Australia, for two
packed September days to ponder how
religion, Yale, and religion at Yale can
possibly change the world.

Playing a starring role at the confer-
ence was Sergio Duarte, the UN's High
Representative for Disarmament Affairs,
who gave the keynote address. "Disar-
mament, in short, represents the fusion
of idealism and realism," he declared. "It
is the right thing to do, and it works."

Religious leaders, he explained, can ex-
tend their mission of "serving the hu-
man family" by joining in the push for
total nuclear abolition. His idea is not a
new one, dating back at least as far as the
1980s, when the US Council of Catholic
Bishops was one of the most vocal ad-
vocates of the Nuclear Freeze movement;
calling for a moratorium on all nuclear
production.

And at Yale during the '60s and '70s,
the University's spiritual community
benefited from the energizing presence
of its chaplain, Reverend William Sloane
Coffin YDS '56. Coffin preached deseg-
regation, anti-war action, and, after leav-
ing Yale and relocating to Manhattan's
Riverside Chapel, anti-nuclear activism.
As Coffin well understood, nuclear dis-
armament can take on a special urgency
in the hands of the faithful.

Tyler Wigg Stevenson YDS '04, who
9



**A New Testament for a Post-Nuclear Age**
**Author:  Kau &llur**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
spoke at the conference, was an anti-nu-
clear activist for years before a religious 
conversion led him to locate new moral 
stakes in his cause. Now, he explains that 
America's nuclear arsenal sets the coun-
try "squarely in the face of the wrath and 
judgment of God." He currently works 
for Faithful Security, a coalition group 
that bridges faith communities to pur-
StJ.e nuclear nonproliferation, and warns 
that the US government "seeks to elevate 
America above that which God has or-
dained any nation to be." 
(CWe need all hands on deck~ " 
Schell says. c:And that very 
much. . . includes religious 
bodies. These are questions 
of cosmic~ spiritual impor-
tance 
and 
philosophical 
. 
~~ 
zmportance . 

Stevenson was one of the younger, and 
louder, conference participants. ''I'm 
sure someone here thinks I'm a zealot," 
he mused during a coffee break after 
his speech, though this doesn't prevent 
him from avidly expressing his views; 
"A country considering nuclear weap-
ons," he explained, "needs only to look 
at North Korea on one hand, and Iraq on 
the other, and see the indisputable ad-
vantage of acquiring a nuclear weapon. 
Those trained in business might rightly 
call this an incentive 
and it will cause a 
catastrophe beyond imagining." 

A year after graduating from the Di-
vinity School, Stevenson was one of a 
handful of spiritual leaders who, under 
Coffin's guidance, sparked the genesis 
of this year's conference. In the summer 
of 2005, Coffin invited roughly a dozen 
friends, colleagues, and scholars, Steven-
son included, to his house in Vermont 
to discuss how the religious community 
could mobilize to eliminate the existence 
of nuclear weapons. The chap1ain died 
the next year. 

John Lindner, who now produces a 
YDS magazine called Reflections, was 
also present in Vermont. When Lindner 
speaks of Coffin, it is with a sense of ven-
eration 
as though the reverend were at 
once a movie star, a prophet, a sage, and 
a best friend. "Bill said, 'I'm an old man, 
I'm dying, but come to my house and 
we'll talk about this,"' Lindner recalled. 
The ideas spawned during this intimate 
gathering eventually grew into this fall's 
conference as well as a nuclear-themed 
issue of Reflections to be published this 
spnng. 

Lindner's magazine highlights a pro-
gressive strain of thought thriving on the 
Sterling Divinity Quadrangle. Articles 
titled "Jesus of Hollywood" and Scrip-
ture in the Digital Age" suggest that the 
Divinity School has not forgotten its 
forward-thinking heyday; recent issues 
have centered on how sex, immigration, 
foreign policy, and environmentalism in-
teract with issues of faith. 

In a high-profile academic move, 
the Divinity School drew Tony Blair to 
New Haven to teach a course on "Faith 
and Globalization" with YDS Profes-
sor Miroslav Volf, who played a large 
role in organizing September's confer-
ence. Volf spoke at the beginning of the 
conference, noting the ways technology 
and the modern world have revolution-
izcd what it means to be unsafe. Nuclear 
weapons, Volf insisted, threaten world 
security, and a more insecure world 
means a world further from the biblical 
ideal of Jerusalem, a "city that is utterly 
and completely secure, and can never be 
conquered or undone." 

Professor Jonathan Schell, a longtime 
advocate for nuclear disarmament who 
teaches a course in Yale's Political Sci-
ence Department tided "Strategic, Po-
litical, and Moral Dilemmas of the Nu-
clear Age," lent rhe conference an overtly 
political presence. "We're overdue for a 
profound reconsideration of this issue," 
Schell noted. His comment applied not 
only to Yale, bur roan entire nation about 
to move on from the nuclear-friendly 
policies of the Bush administration and, 
perhaps, beginning to question the need 
for any country-including the United 
Stares-co possess nuclear weapons. 

The national conversation may, in 
fact, be changing. Last January, in a WaU 
Strut journal editorial penned by for-
mer policy heavyweights George Shultz, 
William Perry, Sam Nunn, and Henry 
Kissinger-hardJy a hippy activist him-
self--called for a world without nuclear 
weapons. It was signed by almost all liv-
ing former Secretaries of Defense, sug-
gesting a rising ride for nuclear reform. 
"They could hardly be bigger chunks of 
establishmenr," Schell observes of the 
four authors, "and they're calling for the 
abolition of nuclear weapons." 

The Divinity School hopes that it can_ 
add fuel to the fire. As a university in-
creasingly plugged in to global power dy-
namics, it wasn't long before Yale began 
to tackle what Schell calls "the mother of 
all global issues." That it was the Divin-
ity School that assumed this task, Schell 
believes, is not surprising. "We need all 
hands on deck," he says. "And that very 
much .. .includes religious bodies. These 
are questions of cosmic, spiritual impor-
tance--and philosophical importance." 

When Robert Oppenheimer saw 
the first atomic explosion at the Trin-
ity Test, he remembered a passage from 
the Bhagavad Gita: "If the radiance of a 
thousand suns were to burst at once into 
the sky, that would be like the splendor 
of the mighty one. Now I am become 
Death, the destroyer of worlds." Like 
Oppenheimer, parnctpants in Septem-
ber's conference have come to see nuclear 
weapons as a spiritual as well as a political 
issue. The Divinity School is formulating 
a New Testament for a post-nuclear age. 
TNJ 
Kau &llur, a sophomort' in Davmport 
Colkgl', is an associau t'ditor ojTNJ. 


**Building Blocks**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 12**

BUILDING BLOCKS 
New Haven models new development on an old urban ideal. 
John DeStefano is a development man. 
Since his mayoral inauguration in 1993, 
his administration has directed billions 
of dollars, year after year, to rebuilding 
New Haven-gutting and renovating its 
schools, developing blighted neighbor-
hoods through the Livable City Initia-
tive, and revitalizing empty business dis-
tricts like Orange Street and the Ninth 
Square. DeStefano sees his work as a 
march toward the future, but the future 
he envisions is very much like the New 
Haven of 90 years ago: a living, walking, 
and working urban environment with a 
dense and vigorous downtown, a popu-
lation center that will lure outsiders into 
New Haven on Friday nights. At the core 
of his vision is the revival, through eco-
nomic development and infrastructure 
improvement, of an urban middle class 
that vanished decades ago in many pock-
ets of urban America. 

The latest step toward this future 
was taken on a crisp morning this Sep-
tember, when bulldozers and backhoes 
moved in to officially break ground on 
the site of the long-defunct Shartenberg's 
department store. In its place will rise a 
cutting-edge, 32-story housing and com-
mercial complex. The top floors of this 
mixed-use building, the so-called 360 
State Street project, will hold a collection 
of luxury rental apartments, while the 
ground floor will include twenty thou-
sand square feet of retail space, including 
a grocery store. On the terrace will be a 
swimming pool, a rooftop garden, a fit-
ness center, even a library. Nearly every 
aspect of the design 
from its recycled 
and local materials and Energy Star ap-
pliances to a fuel-cell generator that will 
produce clean, renewable power 
will 
be green enough to earn the building a 
coveted Gold LEED certification. 

7he 360 State project rep-
resents the first large-scale 
development in New Haven 
since the ambitious urban 
renewal schemes of the 1950s 
and :J60s. 

"I designed [the project] wtth the in-
tent to attract well-educated young pro-
fessionals," says the project's developer 
and architect, Bruce Becker. He wants 
360 State Street to become an urban hub 
serving "lots of little markets 
faculty 
and staff at Yale New-Haven Hospital, 
attorneys ~orking downtown, young 
professionals who commute out of the 
city by train, graduate students with the 
means, and retired people who want to 
be downtown." 



**New Haven's Transformation**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The inclusion of affordable housing 
in this urban vision was crucial to the 
success of Becker's bid for the site. New 
Haven's Chief Economic Administrator 
Kelly Murphy emphasizes that the City 
is committed to "making sure that there 
is affordable housing downtown," and 
Becker stepped up to the challenge. 
"You won't be able to differentiate be-
tween the affordable houses and the mar-
ker rate and won't be able to distinguish 
tenants living in affordable housing," he 
predicts. 

The 360 Stare project encapsulates 
DeStefano's vision for New Haven's re-
development. It is not only mixed-use, 
affordable, and green, but it also repre-
sents the first large-scale development in 
New Haven since the ambitious urban 
renewal schemes of the 1950s and '60s. 
This is the new wave of New Haven's 
transformation: Instead of demolishing 
blighted neighborhoods and delineating 
separate commercial and residential dis-
tricts, as New Haven administrators did 
fifty years ago, DeStefano has launched 
a comprehensive effort to restore a sense 
of urbanism to downtown New Haven. 
And 360 State is only the beginning. 
Forthcoming development projects in-
clude extensive housing developments, 
an overhaul of Union Station, and 
downtown relocation of the Long Wharf 
Theater and Gateway Community Col-
lege. Together, these projects could leave 
DeStefano's biggest mark yet. 

FOLLOWING A NATIONAL trend, New Ha-
ven's development is of the New Urban-
ist family. Born as a reaction to the ur-
ban sprawl of the 1980s, when cities like 
New Haven lost population to the sub-
urbs and watched their downtown cores 
erode, this design movemem aims to 
re-create cities and neighborhoods with 
discernable centers to serve as civic hubs 
for residents. New Urbanists envision an 
urban home for people of different back-
grounds and socioeconomic classes, dot-
ted with businesses, schools, parks, and 
residential sections. 

Today, housing in New Haven is 
surprisingly scarce. Although the city's 
housing projects supply a fair amount 
of centra!Jy located, low-income living 
quaners, the market offers few down-
town options co middle-class residents. 
"Our vacancy rate in residential rental is 
under two percent," Murphyexplainr--a 
number which means that the housing 
October 2008 
supply is far too small to meet dem.rnd. 
Stern characterizes the rela-
tionship between Yale and 
New Haven as (two peas in 
a pod, if you will two sides 
of a coin; their fortunes are 
Linked." 

The shortage in the cemer of town 
especially affects the middle and high-
income bracket, says Robert Stern ARC 
'65. The dean of the Yale School of Ar-
chitecture and a New Urbanism special-
ist, Stern is integral to the city's initia-
tives: In addition to Yale's new residential 
colleges, he will design two of the major 
downtown development projects, one at 
College Square and the other at the Vet-
erans Memorial Coliseum site. Stern sees 
housing, especially high-end housing, 
as an integral parr of building a vibrant 
downtown community. He claims that if 
decent housing were available, "people 
living in single family homes in Guilford, 
Hamden, or even on St. Ronan's would 
say, 'Let's get an apartment downtown 
with all of Yale's cultural opportunities, 
these restaurants, these shops, the theater 
at our fingertips.' " Such movement, he 
explains, "happens in many big cities-
New York and Chicago," but not in New 
Haven because there isn't anywhere for 
them to go. 

New housing, then, is an important 
step in New Haven's redevelopment. But 
housing alone will not a new city make. 
"You can't build a viable downtown on 
any single use," argues Stern. 

And you can't build a viable city on 
a single source of investment. Currently, 
the city's economy is institution-based, 
meaning that it depends on its many col-
leges and hospitals to fund development. 
One benefit, according to Murphy, is 
that "we don't have the high highs but 
we don't have the low lows ... Yale and 
Alberrus and Southern and Quinnipiac 
and Gateway and the hospitals are al-
ways investing, always building and are 
not going ro pick up and move some-
where else." This also means, however,


--- Page 14 ---

Plans for development at College Square. Image: Centerplan Companies 

that the city has become largely depen-
dent on Yale's investment. The Univer-
sity recently sponsored the creation of 
an Economic Development Corporation 
and has been instrumental in redevelop-
ing Broadway and mid-Chapel. Becker 
cites a "symbiotic relationship between 
Yale and New Haven," and Stern charac-
terizes the relationship as "two peas in a 
pod, if you will, two sides of a coin; their 
fortunes are linked." 

In the 1950s and '60s, May-
or Dick Lee and his admin-
istration 'aramatically plun-
dered, sundered the urban 

Luring consumers and commerce back 
into the city will entail, in part, wean-
ing the city off of its reliance on Yale and 
building an enduring, non-Yale-based 
middle class. "It's dangerous to have es-
sentially one financial backer," Becker 
explains. He believes an influx of non-
14 
• 
Yale funds will transform the city, mak-
ing it more like "Cambridge or Palo 
Alto. Stanford, Harvard, and M.I.T. play 
large roles but they're not the only game 
. 
)) 
tn town. 

Toward this end, the City expects its 
large development projects to gener-
ate more non-Yale jobs. According to 
DeStefano's Future Framework Plan, 
downtown development will generate 
over 30,000 jobs, both directly and in-
directly. The former Coliseum site, ac-
cording to Chuck Coursey, who handles 
public relations for its developer, North-
land Investment Corporation, is likely 
to include Long Wharf Theater, relo-
cated from its current home on Sargent 
Drive. Administrators hope the theater 
will bring retail, housing, and culture 
to the downtown area. Stern claims that 
Long Wharf will be more than just a cul-
tural draw. "The nice thing about Long 
Wharf and this is true of Yale's strong 
drama school as well," he says, "is that 
it's not just actors but electricians, set 
builders, sound people who have to go to 
have lunch." Ideally, the theater will en-
courage a dynamic urban environment 
made up of interdependent businesses. 
The City hopes the project will recapture 
the commercial buzz of New Haven's in-
dustrial prime, when this area, situated 
between the New Haven Green and the 
city's port, was a mercantile hub. · 

THE FINAL ELEMENT of this reinven-
tion, argues Douglas Rae, New Haven's 
former chief administrative officer and 
currently the RichardS. Ely Professor of 
Management at Yale, should be develop-
ing an improved transportation network 
to connect New Haven to the rest of the 
Northeast. "The reason that New Haven 
exists as a substantial city is tra.p.sport," he 
explains, alluding to the pre-automobile 
epicenter of rail lines and sea transport 
that connected New Haven to economic 
behemoths like New York and allowed 
the city to emerge as an industrial center. 
"We are the fringe of this gigantic moun-
tain; we're a foothill ... and we should 
think of ourselves in that connection 
more than anything else," Rae contin-
ues. With the growth of its transporta-
tion infrastructure, New Haven would 
have the potential to become almost a 


--- Page 15 ---

reverse commuter dty. People could live 
in New Haven and contribute to its tax 
base while working in Stamford, Hart-
ford, or New York. 

While the burden of improving trans-
portation falls partly on the State, the 
City is trying to apply as much forward 
momentum of its own as possible. Mur-
phy hopes that the impending demolition· 
of the former Coliseum's massive parking 
lot will finally spur the construction of 
a second parking lot at Union Station. 
Eventually, the City hopes to compre-
hensively redesign the station, making 
it a retail as well as transportation hub. 
Administrators have proposed a three-
phase project that would not only pro-
vide parking but remake Union Station 
ala its D.C. and New York counterparts 
by attaching it to a large, mixed-use de-
velopment complex. Murphy points out 
that since the project "finances itself," 
New Haven will be able to begin work 
on the site as soon as it reaches an agree-
ment with the state. 

BY PIECING TOGETHER housing develop-
ments like 360 State, economic inde-
pendence from Yale, and a revitalized 
transportation network, city developers 
hope to recapture early 20th-century 
New Haven in its heyday. Despite ad-
mitted flaws 
like tenement houses, for 
example 
in this now-antiquated urban 
plan, this city once tied residents to their 
urban environment in a very concrete 
manner. In 1909, Frank Rice was elected 
as New Haven mayor on a platform of 
redoing the city's sidewalks. Factories 
like Winchester and Sargent provided a 
steady supply of jobs while prominent 
community organizations constructed 
tight social networks. This New Haven 
was densely populated, home to the 
wealthy and the poor, descendants of Pu-
ritan settlers and immigrants newly ar-
rived from Europe. New Haven's current 
leaders are particularly nostalgic for this 
urban setting, perhaps because the city 
strayed so far from it during the 1950s 
and '60s, when agents ofUrban Renewal 
razed entire neighborhoods to make way 
for highways and department stores. 

During this era, under the flag of Ur-
ban Renewal, Mayor Richard "Dick"-Lee 
and his administration pushed mass de-
velopment to revitalize the city. But by 
building so quickly and on such a large 
scale, with so little regard for the com-
munities they destroyed in their wake, 
Rae recounts, they "dramatically-plun-
dered, sundered the urban fabric." Worse 
still, the projects failed to create a strong 
mercantile sector that could compete 
with suburban alternatives. The large 
department stores 
Shartenberg's, Mal-
ley's, and Macy's 
did not foster a small-
er business community, which meant 
that once these stores closed, they left an 
urban wasteland in which, Clark re.calls, 
"every other store was boarded up." 

Decades of slow and patient City Hall 
effort eventually drew tentative shop-
keepers and residents back to downtown. 
Around 2003, the City first began to 
think about developing the abandoned 
department store sites in an effort to 
undo Lee's mistakes. But there is only 
so much that this downtown restoration 
can achieve for the rest of the city. "There 
are cases where you have spectacular 
downtown redevelopment like Balti-
more, which has no favorable impact on 
the city at large," Rae warns. 

And the project comes with steep costs. 
The City is investing significant funds in 
the development projects via tax abate-
ments and land grants. 360 State will 
only pay a fraction of assessed property 
taxes until 2014, and the land cost Beck-
.. 
er a single dollar. City officials are none-
. theless quick to defend the deal. The site 
has been vacant for 42 years, according 
to Murphy, and although the City has 
giveri developers like Becker significant 
incentive·s, the potential revenue lost is 
negated by the fact that he is building on 
a lot that for years has provided the City 
with no revenue whatsoever. Even when 
Becker is only paying a fraction of the 
taxes assessed on the site, this revenue 
will be more than the City received be-
fore. With Becker's development, Mur-
phy says, the site will gross "close to two 
million dollars a year. They're going to be 
the biggest taxpayer." 

Rae predicts, however, that it "will be 
a long time before there's much posi-
tive. impact on the tax base," and with 
the City having recently laid off 35 peo-
ple in a budget crunch, New Haven is 
in a poor position to be hemorrhaging 
money. These fiscal problems will almost 
certainly be compounded by the state of 
the national economy, and already, many 
of the city's ambitious plans have been 
put on hold. One must walk no farther 
than College Square to see the effects of 
the credit crunch on New Haven. This 
Scarpelli no's, like many small businesses, has been forced out of downtown New Haven to make 
way for large scale development. 



**Title: A New Haven Renaissance?**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Northland Associates' vision for a Long WharfTheater relocated to the site of the former Coliseum. 
. 
block of College Street between Crown 
and George is barren, its previous small 
business owners evicted in order to make 
way for a new, large-scale project. But 
redevelopment has been stopped in its 
tracks and the storefronts sit, unneces-
sarily abandoned. In August, City of-
ficials cringed when the developer of a 
225-room luxury ho~el slated for the site 
announced a financially-motivated delay 
of at least six months. 

But given the costs of the economic 
collapse on a national level, New Haven 
may have caught a bit of a break. "In 
terms of our development schedule, we 
happen to be in a good place," claims 
Murphy. The City hopes that two years 
from now, when the 360 State project 
wraps up, the market will have reversed. 
Becker is similarly optimistic. "One 
thousand people will be hired between 
now and when we open," he says. More 
importantly, since the City does not cur-
rently need to pursue financing for any 
future projects, administrators do not 
have to struggle to sell bonds in today's 
credit market. And, of course, Yale and 
other institutions around town will never 
16. 
stop building buildi:ngs, hiring residents, 
and keeping the city's economy afloat. 

THE NEW BREED of businesses that the 
City hopes its development p]ans will 
attract may drastically differ both from 
the city's current smattering of chain 
stores and its mom-and-pop stores left 
over from the New Haven of yore. A few 
long-standing, successful independent 
stores were already evicted to make way 
for the stalled hotel project on College 
Street. Some, like Cooper's Dress Shop, 
had been there since the strip opened 
in 1961, as part of the supposed Urban 
Renewal mercantile district. Now, except 
• ' 
J, 
•• 
. . , 
for College Wine and Liquor, all of them 
have left or will leave soon. 

Few small businesses, however, be-
moan the changes to downtown. ''At the 
moment those business are happy about 
this," Clark says. Many of these stores 
actually testified on behalf of the devel-
opers and pressured aldermen to accept 
the proposals. The business owners who 
remain recognize that new housing units 
and the relocated Gateway Community 
College will bring thousands of people 
downtown who will need coffee, lunch, 
and clothing . 

This active interchange of residents, 
. businesses, and visitors is the urbanist 
city that John DeStefano hopes to recre-
att~. A place, in Stern's words, where you 
"walk out of your apartment and walk 
down the street, see the shop that has 
just changed their window, bump into 
someone you know, walk into a book-
store and buy a book or not or a cup of 
coffee, or walk across the Green, whatev-
er." Though DeStefano wants to restore 
the urban fabric of yesteryear, the fabric 
of New Haven has been torn so many 
times that his dream may be more of a 
mirage. But whether or not he can recap-
ture the old New Haven, he can still 
if 
the economy allows 
create a New Ha-
ven where people want to be . 
., 
. .,. 
-
• -
.... 
Sarah Nutman, a sophomore in Trumbull 
College, is an associate editor ofTNJ . 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Title: Continental Drift**
**Author: Sophie Quinton**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

\ 
CONTINENTAL DRIFT 
As a legendary philosopher concludes his career, the 
Yale Philosophy Department contemplates its future. 
The 1980s and '90s were troubled times 
for Yale's once prominent philosophy de-
partment. Fierce infighting 
the result 
of both personal and academic quar-
rels 
resulted in the exodus of almost all 
of Yale's continental philosophy profes-
sors. Professor Karsten Harries PC '58 
GRD '62 survived the strife, but most of 
his fellow continental experts in _French 
and German Enlightenment thought 
left the department and were replaced 
with scholars of analytic philosophy, 
which focuses on logic and language 
and includes the fields of metaphysics, -
semantics, and epistemology. Soon, Har-
ries was the last major hold-out of the 
continental tradition, and since then he 
has continued to attract a broad range of 
non-philosophy majors with such popu-
lar courses as "The Philosophy of Archi-
tecture" and "Art, Love, and Beauty." A 
legend at Yale and beyond, Harries cur-
October 2008 
rently serves as the Philosophy Depart-
ment's director of graduate studies and, 
throughout his tenure, has advised over 
~~ 
58 dissertations 
more, he claims, than 
any other living philosopher. But after 
fifty years at Yale, he has finally decided 
that it's time to retire. 

Harries recently announced that he 
will be teaching every one of his courses 
for the last time. Although it may take 
as long as five years for him to fulfill this 
pledge, his impending departure has left 
many of his colleagues, like Professor 
Seyla Benhabib GRD '77, asking: "What 
does the department do now?" 

lfAruuES, WHO SPORTS quintessentially 
professorial tweed jackets, is looking 
forward to retirement. He sees it as an 
opportunity to marshal his thoughts into 
books. "It's a good occasion to pull all 
my notes," he said, and to arrange them · 
for publication. His Kierkegaard seminar 
notes are already headed for the press, 
and he hopes that notes from his Heide-
gger seminar will soon follow. But Har-
ries also worries about the department he 
· is leaving behind. "The continental tra-
dition is still underrepresented," he says. 
"There is virtually no one now. . . The 
philosophers I am talking to and [who] 
matter to me are not at Yale." 

coThe continental tradition 
is still underrepresented. .. 
The philosophers I am talk-
ing to and [who} matter to 
me are not at Yale. n;, 

Professor Benhabib, a former student of 
17 


Harries and herself a bit of a continental 
expert who now teaches in Yale's political 
science department, is also concerned. 
"There are no [other] senior continental 
philosopher appointments," she explains. 
"They don't have anyone teaching Ger-
man idealism, and that's just not right. 
That's so silly, given Yale's foundations in 
the department." Yale's continental schol-
ars were, in fact, hugely prominent in the 
field during the 1960s, driving thought 
and shaping the University's reputa-
tion. When their differences with their 
analytic colleagues in the 1980s grew so 
intense that the department's hiring pro-
cess ground to a standstill, many conti-
nental professors left, and few were re-
placed. If Harries' departure were to lead 
to a neglect of the European philosophic 
traditions, Benhabib believes it would be 
" 
d , 
a trage y . 

Philosophy major Geoff Shaw BR '1 0 
took Harries' "Art, Love and Beauty'' last 
year and appreciated its continental ap-
proach. "It had Nietzsche, Schopenhauer 
and Kant, [who] certainly wouldn't be 
taught at the upper level," he remembers. 
In his experience, upper-level philosophy 
18 
courses "really only study the analytic 
stuff." And though ·he likes the analytic 
material, Shaw explains that the branch 
covers "language, logic, not what it's like 
to be alive. I learned about being a per-
son in Karsten's class." To Shaw, it almost 
seems like the Yale Philosophy Depart-
ment "has given up on the meaning of 
life. Its educational mission should be to 
teach people about living, yet it's focused 
on stuff people find uninteresting." 

To Geo Shaw BR ~1 0~ it al-
most seems like the philoso-
phy department cchas given 
up on the meaning of life. " 

Shaw points out that potential philoso-
phy majors interested in the history of 
intellectual thought often gravitate to 
majors like the Humanities and Ethics, 
Politics, and Economics in search of a 
broader definition of philosophic study. 

Brian Earp CC '09's defection from the 
philosophy major to cognitive science, 
on the other hand, reflects the increasing 
convergence of science and philosophy, 
a trend that is partly responsible for the 
current emphasis on the analytic branch. 
It wasn't that the philosophy major was 
lacking, Earp insists, but that he was 
"getting excited about theories of mind" 
and wanted to pursue an empirical line 
of study. One concern Earp does have is 
that, compared to other major universi-
ties, Yale's Philosophy Department ranks 
rather low. According to Philosophical 
Gourmet, a popular online ranking of 
philosophy departments, Yale ranks 
16th in the nation. Although this rank 
has been rising over the past ten years, 
it still falls short of schools like NYU, 
Rutgers, the University of .Plttsburgh, 
UCLA, Harvard, and Princeton. "There 
are some very good philosophers on our 
faculty," Earp acknowledges, "but I've 
yet to take a class in which we've actu-
ally read anything written by anyone 
who teaches at Yale." 

HARRIEs, WHO INSISTS that the depart-
ment ha.S recovered from the turmoil of 
the 1980s, is relieved that this period 
has passed. "We would have to go back 




**Title: The Yale Philosophy Department: A Time of Transition**
**Author: Sophie Quinton**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to the early 1960s to have as happy a 
department [as we have now]," he says. 
He credits the new departmental chair, 
Michael Della Rocca, with alleviating 
tension and congratulates him on his lat-
est faculty hires. New professors like Ste-
phen Darwal and Thomas Pogge bring a 
focus on political science and psychology 
to their studies; "They have made this a 
more interesting place," Harries says. 
"We are broadening, building bridges." 
Professor Della Rocca agrees with 
Harries' positive assessment of the de-
partment. "It's in a really good position 
now," he says, although "it took a while 
for it to rebuild itself." Looking back on 
the '80s, Della Rocca finds the intra-de-
partmental disagreements "sort of trivial. 
We've moved -beyond that totally." 


For those who mourn the dearth of 
continental philosophers at Yale, or even 
broad intellectual history courses, Della 
Rocca believes that the era of fierce di-
• 
vjsjons between phHosophic disciplines, 
like the era of departmental conflict, has 
passed. "The divisions between so-called 
'analytical' and so-called 'continental' 
philosophy 
those divisions are mean-
ingless now," he says. Della Rocca cites 
interdisciplinary initiatives as proof of 
a new era of collaboration. Pogge's ap-
pointment, for example, was made pos-
sible by the MacMillian Center for Inter-
national and Area Studies, and Benhabib 
brought philosophy and ethics experts 
to campus during her tenure as director 
of the Ethics, Politics, and Economics · 
major. Directed Studies, the interdisci-
plinary freshman program that teaches 
the Western canon, links the philosophy 
department to other majors and focuses 
\argely on the continental tradition. 


THOUGH THE PHILOSOPHY department 
aims to replace Harries with another 
expert in 19th-century philosophy, the 
old definitions of philosophy 
which 
take Europe as their roots and the con-
tinental tradition as their backbone-
have shifted. With this shift in focus has 
come a shift in preeminence. Instead of a 
select few Ivy-covered institutions domi-
nating the philosophical field, there are 
now several; instead of one or two tradi-
tions dominating the discourse, there are 
now many, and they link disciplines and 
thinkers across the globe. 


Attracting a figure of Harries' stature 
will most certainly be difficult, and even 
if the department replaces him with an-
other continental expert, it will be losing 
the last of the old guard from its days as 
the unquestioned leader among philoso-
phy departments worldwide. The Yale 
Philosophy Department has long been 
asking itself tough questions 
about the 
direction it wants to take, the academic 
role it wants to play 
but when Har-
ries finishes teaching his last course for 
the last time, the department will finally 
have to answer them. 

Sophie Quinton is a sophomore in Trum-
bull College. 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
. .
Shafiq Abdussabur remembers sitting on
the shoulders of his mother, dressed in a
little black jacket bedecked with protest
buttons, staring out at an army of police
in full riot gear. The year was 1970, and
Ms. Abdussabur, her son, and twelve
thousand other Black Panthers and their
supporters had converged on the New
Haven Green to protest the trial of Pan-
ther leader Bobby Seale and several of
his compatriots for murder. In the fol-
lowing month, before the case ended in a
mistrial, activists would pelt the security
cordon with trash and rocks, two bombs
would go off in the Yale Hockey rink,
the National Guard would shoot tear gas
into the defenseless mob, and 23-year-
old Hillary Rodham, then a student at
the Yale Law School, would volunteer
for the ACLU to prevent civil rights
violations during the legal proceedings
against Seale.
New Raven's Democratic campaign office on Church Street.
conservative academics and alumni, the
student body, in solidarity with colleges
across the country, went on strike by re:-
fusing to attend clas~es from May 1 until
the end of the semester. Seale's trial dead-
locked, with the jury voting 11 to 1 for .
acquittal.
Abdussabur once again sees
the potent mixture. o hope
and conflict he saw that
spring · in 1970, when the
New Left and Black Power
movements stood side by side,
however uneasily.
hopeful glimmer of post-racial idealism.
"In the '60s, a group of leaders came out
who could relate to all kinds of people of
different creeds and colors in the name of
equal rights and opportunities," Abduss-
abur says. "People like Martin Luther
King and Malcolm X were black lead-
ers with a universal message." Now, with
the prospect of Barack Obama's victory
in November, Abdussabur sees the same
potent mixture of hope and conflict he
saw that spring in 1970, when the New
Left and Black Power movements stood
side by side, however uneasily.
"Black people are looking for Mal-
colm in Barack, others for Martin," Ab-
dussabur suggests in his au-thoritative
and resonant tone. "Many white people
are looking for Bobby [Kennedy]. In the
life of Barack Obama, there is a little bit
of all of that, and everyone is claiming
their piece."
For most, the Seale trial has faded to a
footnote in the history of Yale and New
Haven or a better-forgotten cultural
battle of the '60s. But for Abdussabur,
IN LIGHT OF THEIR CITY's Own tortured
now 42 and one of New Haven's most
racial histor}r.
from a pronounced peri-
outspoken black advocates, the trial re-
od of white flight after World War II, to
mains a fundamental point of reference,
the chaos of the Seale Trial, to the even-
a cultural moment that simultaneously
Within days of the clash between
demonstrators and police, a collection of
prominent black leaders and Yale admin-
istrators were working in tandem to de-
fuse tensions on the Green. Despite out-
cry from some of the University's more
tual election of John C. Daniels, New


---

**Page number(s): 23**

Haven's first black mayor, in 1989
New
Haven's black leaders see Obama both as
a black politician and as its antithesis: a
post-racial candidate.
"He's lived that life, he's had that ex-
perience African Americans share," says
Abdussabur, who works as a police of-
ficer and has launched initiatives to de-
crease gun violence, winning City Hall's
Man Of The Year award in 2006. ''As
president, he will have a responsibility to
every man and woman in this country."
But, Abdussabur concedes, "When I go
into the voting booth in November, sure,
I love Obama a little bit more for being
black, I trust him a little bit more for be-
ing black."
Abdussabur believes that Obama's
campaign promises a new sense of pos-
sibility for the next generation of Mrican
Americans, a sense he lacked during his
own elementary-school years. "One day
in class," he recalls, "the teacher asked
which one of us wanted to be President,
and I was the only black kid who raised
his hand. Had it been a different ques-
tion, who can be President, I'm not sure
I would have done the same thing. But
now, after Barack's run, everyone in that
class can raise his or her hand, even the
girls."
"The black community has
written Barack a check. That
check is for outreach and-
the amount is for change.
And I believe when Obama
wins in Novembe1; African
Americans will see that check
cashed. n
-.Shajiq Abdussabur
Yusuf Shah, an Mrican-American
New Haven alderman, sees Obama dif-
ferently. His vision of Obama matches
the campaign's portrait of a figure who
transcends race. "Barack Obama owes
the ·black community nothing," he says
pointedly.
Shah's belief is rooted in his - own
route to political prominence, a route
very different from Abdussabur's. While
Abdussabu r's formative experience was
the racially charged Seale trial, Shah has
October 2008
spent much of his career bridgip.g the
gap between his own ideology and back-
ground and the very diverse demands of
his constituents. A black Muslim, Shah ·-
believes his religion and race are essen-
tial spiritual and historical guides that
inform his views, but that they are not
the end of the story. Shah has come to
see Obama much as he sees himself. as
someone who has worked ·to transcend
the interests of a single racial or ethnic
group. "Since he's the first African-Amer-
ican candidate, I'm celebrating that," the
alderman says. "But it's because his poli-
tics and motives are on point that I sup-
port his run."
"Above all," Shah explains, "Barack's
message is, 'You can make it if you try.'
A lot of people in New Haven say that
there's a problem with our youth. There
isn't. They're broke; they come from bad
neighborhoods. You give these kids an
incentive, show them that they can make
it, and that will have an effect."
Shah believes that Obama's success
could mark a sea change in the nation's
attitude toward the political promise
of black Americans. "To see an Mrican
American reach this level," explains the
alderman, "to me means that America
.
'
has .reached a level of understanding that
racial context is not the issue. Instead, it's
the issue of what we need as a country."
Shah sums up the situation in terms of
his faith. "Islam is a religion of peace:
anything that will bririg about positive
change is blessed. We hope that it means
Obama will be in the White House. But
at the end of this election, there will need
to be a taqueed, a unity, to make Ameri-
ca a blessed country." For Shah, the issue
of Obama's race is crucial not because it
represents a specific victory for the Af-
rican-American community, but because
it communicates a desire for the nation's
people-to draw closer as a whole, to reach
taqueed together.
ON FEBRUARY 2, Barack Obama clinched
New Haven's Democratic primary over
Hillary Clinton by a two-to-one margin,
culling roughly twelve thousand votes
to the New York senator's six thousand.
Before an ecstatic victory crowd at Hula
Hanks, Mayor and Barack-backer John
DeStefano declared, "New Haven is go-
ing to be why Barack Obama wins the
state of Connecticut."
Indeed, the Illinois senator had scored



**Page number(s): 24**

**Title: New Haven's Obama Victory**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Clinton across the state's eight counties, 
securing 26 to her 22 delegates and los-
ing by significant margins in Windham 
and New London. For New Haveners at 
the celebration, this disparity became a 
point of hometown pride. "They're say-
ing Connecticut is too close to call," de-
clared the city's Democratic Party Chair-
woman Susie Voigt, "but there's one city 
in Connecticut where it's not too close to 
call. New Haven votes for a progressive 
Democratic outlook." 


The rallying cry for local Democrats 
had gone out months earlier, with a series 
of prescient and well-publicized endorse-
ments for Obama by four New Haven 
aldermen: Ward 1 's Rachel Plattus, Ward 
2's Gina Calder, Ward 15's Joey Rodri-
guez, and Ward 22's Greg Morehead. To-
gether, the team set about, in Rodriguez's 
words, "educating" ambivalent voters 
about Obama's positions on education, 
the economy, and the war in Iraq. The 
push payed off. By February, DeStefano, 
State Representative Rosa DeLauro, and 
numerous other aldermen had pledged 
their support. By the time ballots closed 
on the 2nd, all but three ofNew Haven's 
thirty wards had sided with Obama. 


Coinciding with this landslide were 
record numbers in voter registration 
and turnout, specifically amongst the 
city's African Americans. Morehead and 
Calder, both influential advocates for 
the New Haven black community, may 
have galvanized the minority population 
on primary daY: Both aldermen's wards, 
the predominately black Dixwell and 
Dwight neighborhoods, posted five-to-
one sweeps for Obama. "Race plays a 
factor," conceded Rodriguez, himself a 
key force in garne.ring Hispanic support 
for the senator. "There are more expecta-
tions for Obama in black communities. 
This is a historic moment, and Obama is 
the first truly credible African-American 
presidential candidate we have seen." 


If, as DeStefano said, New Haven was 
the reason Obama won the state of Con-
necticut, then the voices of local blacks 
played no small part in winning New 
Haven for Obama. This would mean 
that Obama, attempting to win an elec-
tion by transcending race, won the Con-
necticut primary largely because New 
Haven's black community rose to sup-
port him. 


"PosT-RACIAL POLITICS is a lie. It sounds 
good but it is not real," writes Gary 
Holder-Winfield, New Haven's Demo-
cratic nominee for state representative 
and a rising black leader in the city, in an 
email. He deems talk of race-transcending 
unity, like Shah's hope for taqueed, soph-
istry. Like Abdussabur, Holder-Winfield 
speaks in historical terms. "When did we 
get past race anyway?" he asks. "Certain-
ly it wasn't the sixties because the civil 
rights movement proper was still going 
on then. Not the seventies 
just look at 
the activities of the Panthers or attempts 
to desegregate in Boston or the results of 
people wanting to marry between races 
in Virginia and on and on. . . So, when 
did we get past race to be in a post-racial 
period?" 


Before America can begin to discuss 
the possibility of declaring itself absolved 
of its racial legacy, Holder-Winfield con-
tends, it must first acknowledge and then 
reconcile the damages of that history. 


"If Barack Obama represents anything, 
he represents either the best example of
wearing the mask that I have ever seen or 
he is fundamentally different from other 
politicians, in that he truly believes that 
we can be more than we have been, that 
we can get past race, that America can be 
America for the first time." 


On 
October 6, 
Holder-Winfield 
walked into the common room ofYale's
Branford College flanked by student 
members of the Yale Democrats. Slightly 
short, slightly pudgy, he doesn't cut an 
intimidating figure, but he speaks with a 
self-assurance and calm that inspires in-
stant trust and approachability. The man 
is his mantra 
all politics are identity 
politics 
in practice. "If I can sit down 
at a table with you and talk with you for 
half an hour," he tells the thirty or so as-
sembled students, "you're going to vote 
for me." 


It's an approach Holder-Winfield 
wishes the Democrats would learn to 
embrace. "I truly believe that part of the 
reason Democrats are stunned at our 
losses is a lack of an understanding of 
the power of identity politics ... Obama 
must find a way to connect with the vast
majority by developing a narrative that 
speaks across identities while at the same 
time being able to· tailor that narrative 
to specific audiences without appearing 
to do so." Obama's relatability problem, 
Holder-Winfield continues in his email, 
is amplified by Obama's inherent dis-
similarities to the American majority. 


"Barack Obama is Black, even if he is 
half White, and his skin color is, in our 
country, a natural disconnect. The good 
news to me is that this disconnect can 
be overcome. The problem is whether 
we are dealing with a disconnect or in-
grained racism, which is a gap that will 
not be bridged." 


"~ hope that it means 
Obama will be in the White 
House. But at the end of this 
election:~ there will need to be 
a taqueed:J a uni~ to make 
America a blessed country. :J:J 
-YusufShah


Having only become active in the 
Obama bid since last spring, when, as 
leader of the Connecticut Federation of 
Black Clubs, he was contacted by the 
campaign to unify Mrican-American 
communities across the state, Holder-
Winfield holds up his own political 
background as proof of the necessity of 
door-to-door campaigning and face-to-
face conversations. Moving at an early 
age from the Bronx to Westbury, Con-
necticut, Holder-Winfield had planned 
on pursuing a career in physics before 
a return visit to his Connecticut home-
town convinced him to change paths. 


"Westbury used to be a place people 
moved to in order to get away from vio-
lence and crime. When I came back for 
my high school reunion, I saw a lot of 
kids getting involved in drugs and gangs. 
I wanted to find a solution, so I started 
getting active in local politics." 


In order to effect change on a commu-
nity level, Holder-Winfield believes, it is 
necessary for politicians to cross cultural 
divides that their constituents are reluc-
tant to bridge on their own. Making a 
rural representative feel that she and her 
supporters have a stake in urban issues 
arising in the state legislature is a neces-
sary step in generating visibility of mi-
nority issues within the larger electorate. 


To Holder-Winfield, this kind of inter-
community dialogue will be necessary 
not only to ensure an Obama victory in 
November, but also to enfranchise black 
citizens who feel that their voices and 
concerns go unheard in the national cau-
cus. "When Black people hear the presi-
dent and other national figures speak 
about America, speak about 'we' and 'us,' 
we are not sure that Blacks are included 
in that narrative," Holder-Winfield ex-
plains. "Truth be told many of us are 
sure we are not." 


Like Abdussabur, Holder-Winfield be-
lieves that Obama owes Mrican Ameri-
cans specific representation. With a 
black man in the White House, he ex-
plains, there will inevitably be more pres-
sure from minorities for the president to 
advocate on behalf of underrepresented 
and underprivileged sectors of American 
society. "We are going to expect that an 
Obama who has based his campaign on 
'change that you can believe in' means 
just that," Holder-Winfield declares. 


"We are going to expect that as president 
Obama is as adept at speaking to Blacks 
as he was as a candidate at speaking to 
Whites. Does he owe us a revolution? 
No. But he does owe us representation." 


Abdussabur registers a similar senti-
ment, explaining, "The black commu-
nity has written Barack a check. That 
check is for outreach and the amount is 
for change. And I believe when Obama 
wins in November, Mrican Americans 
will see that check cashed." 


ON TuESDAY, OcTOBER 7, the eve of 
the second Presidential debate, the New 
Haven Democratic campaign office offi-
cially opened. Within the cramped one-
room space at 900 Chapel Street, phone 
banks were set up, voter-registration 
forms handed out, and a huge macaroni-
and-sandwich buffet consumed by local 
Democratic leaders and a selection of 
mostly-white students and mostly-black 
Elm City residents. A dry-erase board 
with sign-ups for canvassing trips to New 
Hampshire was nearly filled. A little girl 
walked from person to person handing 
out "Obama/Biden '08" buttons. 


Susie Voigt, walking with a cane, took 
the microphone to thank volunteers for 
their long hours and devotion to the 
candidate. Many of the volunteers had 
joined the cause in the past few weeks, 
though one woman had been working 
with the campaign since late 2006. "It's a 
great time to be a Democrat," the chair-
woman intoned. "We're making history 
in rooms like this." 


ccWhen did we get past race 
anyway?" 
-Gary Holder-Winfield 


Later, Congresswoman Rosa DeLaura 
delivered a fist-pumping ultimatum to 
the crowd: "This is the first time in a 
while that people believe that there can 
be a new politics. There is no choice but 
winning on November 4." 


A father sitting in the back row of the 
audience cradled his baby daughter and 
whispered into her ear, "Yes, we can." 


Indeed, since February, New Haven 
has shown that, yes, it can join together 
to rally behind a candidate, to attract 
previously disenchanted voters, to play 
a decisive role in achieving an Obama 
victory in November. But to view this or 
any other city's support of America's first 
black presidential nominee as somehow 
of one mind or motivated out of a col-
lective racial consciousness is not only 
myopic: It is dangerous. New Haven's 
black leaders, although nearly unani-
mous in their support for Obama, never-
theless approach him with vastly diverse 
expectations and reservations. To claim 
that Obama is black America's choice 
for '08 not only undermines the prom-
ise of post-racial politics but ideologi-
cally shortchanges minority leaders who 
have combated racism their entire lives. 
Abdussabur, Shah, and Holder-Winfield 
may fall within the same census demo-
graphic, but to halt analysis at a racial 
category is to deny the possibility of dis-
cussing race in a meaningful way. After 
November 4, the question for not only 
New Haven but the country at large 
must not be which groups voted for 
whom, but why individuals went to the 
polls and why one candidate appealed 
to them over another. Even when we 
see consensus in a community, we must 
understand that such consensus is im-
perfect, varied, and composed of dispa-
rate needs and desires for change. Then, 
and only then, can this country begin to 
speak of itself as post-racial. 


After the speeches, the modest crowd 
dispersed into the chill autumn night, 
talking of the debate to come, carpool-
ing plans to a rally in Hartford, the suc-
cesses and failures of that night's phone 
drive. Parents walked home with their 
kids while others made their way to de-
bate parties sponsored by the headquar-
ters. Whatever the candidacy of Barack 
Obama means to these volunteers, rep-
resentatives, politicians, and citizens, 
both white and black, they have united 
in New Haven's own microcosmic taqu'e-
ed, at least for the moment, to get him 
elected. 


TN 
Ben Lasman, a junior in Berkeley College, 
is production manager ofTN]. 

**Title: BARE MARKET**
**Author: Laura Bennett**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Come a little closer, baby 
pull your 
barstool over, lean in, inhale the haze of 
cigarettes and perfume so thick it'll make 
your throat burn 
and Phoenix will tell 
you everything you want to know. 
She'll tell you about her parents, who 
hate her job of course but stand by her 
because stripping is just a temporary 
thing and they support her no matter 
what because that's just the way they are, 
y'know. She'll tell you about what she re-
ally wants to do, which is become a po-
lice officer, after maybe another month 
of this bullshit so she can pay her way 
through college. She'll tell you about her 
tattoos-dark, angular stars blooming on 
her shoulder blades 
which are a tribute 
to her family. And if you hang around 
long enough, she'll tell you about her 
three-year-old son, Junior, who thinks 
she's a waitress, although he doesn't re-
ally understand much of anything yet. 
October 2008


Phoenix is 21 but her low, serrated 
voice makes her sound older. She is wear-
ing fishnets and a dog collar necklace. 
with spikes. There is a wad of bills tucked 
into her underwear string. Her heels are 
so dizzyingly high that I can't stop staring 
at them. My scuffed flip-flops look really 
unsexy in comparison. Phoenix smiles 
and stands, her legs unfolding endlessly. 
"This is a tiny bit of fame, a tiny bit 
of celebrity," she says. "It makes you feel 
good about yourself, to be watched, to 
be admired, adored by others." 

Meanwhile, I can feel the eyes on me: 
....... W..,hat's up with this chick? Ayyyee she's 
from Yaaale. Girl, look at her squirm. 
At East Street's Catwalk Club, which 
opened in 1996, the electric pulse of hip-
hop and pop and rock is in the air till 
5 a.m. and chandeliers throw spangled 
shadows on the walls. The pole reflects 
constellations of colored lights. At the 
bar, the off-duty girls cross their legs and 
sip Red Bull, casting sultry looks through 
thick black lashes. 
"My favorite part of this place is the 
naked women," says Toni, a construction 
worker who comes to Catwalk at least 
once a week. His least favorite part, he 
tells me, is leaving. 

'My favorite part of this place 
is the naked women, " says 
Tom, a cons-truction worker 
who comes to Catwalk at 
least once a week. His least 
-avorite part, he tells me, is 
leaving. 

"You get all different kinds of people in 
here," says Mark Rhatigan, the manager. 


The older businessmen come in early, 
watch hungrily from the outskirts of the 
room, eyes big and glazed behind their 
glasses. The college kids come in .real late, . 
after 2 a.m. Sometimes they get a little 
too aggressive with the girls, but Mark, a 
former bouncer, doesn't let that fly. 
Mark was in the army for five years. 
He is round-shouldered with a greased 
coif and huge pees that strain . against a 
tight black shirt. He looks like he could 
break your face without even trying. 
"It's the worst when a guy tries to touch 
you," says Valentina, who is 27 and has 
a big, brassy voice. Her hair is a crunchy 
orange cloud. She used to workas.a com-· 
puter teacher but got laid off. "I went to 
school for almost three years, I'm certi-
fied at Microsoft, and I work in a strip 
club," she says. "I mean that showwws -
you something, baby girl. Come onnn." 
Running her tongue over her teeth, she 
adds, "The economy sucks." 

cit makes you feel good about 
yourself to be watched, to be 
admired, adored by others. " 

Serenity is 19 and skinny and about 
my height 
five-foot-three 
except for 
' 
the heels. Her eyes are thickly lined and 
winged at the edges, Cleopatra-style. She 
wears a black corset and huge hoop ear- . 
rings and has a dented pack ofNewports 
tucked into her garter. There's no hourly 
wage for exotic dancers; they earn what-
ever customers decide to give them. Still, 
the pay is solid, Serenity says. She's made 
two thousand dollars in a good week. 
But she can't stand the slow nights. 
When one or two guys saunter in, sit 
at the bar, sip drinks, and pay no mind 
to the girls.. She's grinding up and down 
that pole for 15 minutes and basically 
dancing for no reason. Nothing pisses 
her off more than being ignored. Later, I 
watch her walk from the bar to the stage. 
She is slow, slinking, like a cat. Her small 
hips sway fiercely. 
The music starts up, low and sassy. 
Dontcha wish your girlfriend was hot 
like me. 
Serenity steps onto the platform and 
caresses the pole. When she bends over, 
a college boy in the front row leans for-
ward, snaps the string of her underwear, 
and slips in a bill. She swivels towards 
him, her long legs opening slowly like a 
fan. He is hypnotized, and she locks eyes 
with him and won't look away. 
Dontcha wish your girlfriend was a 
freak like me. 

In the corner of the room, I am perched 
on the edge of a big velvet chair, feeling 
small and clumsy. I could never pull off 
those heels. I don't have the swagger. Or 
the legs. The way she owns every inch of 
that stage, works every inch of the pole. 
My neck is itching and all I want to do 
is be out in the cold, quiet night. Jesus, 
I feel dumb in this prissy sweater, these 
neat, hemmed jeans. 

In the corner o the room, I 
am perched on the edge o a 
big velvet chair, feeling small 
and clumsy. I could never 
pull of those heels. I don't 
have the swagger. Or the 
legs. 

I know you want me, its easy to see. 
Their eyes are saying what the hell are 
you doing out here, with your tape re-
corder and your button-down top and 
your stupid half-smile? Walk in walk 
out, cap your pen and all that's left of 
us is the cigarette smoke in your hair. 
Phoenix says, we're all just trying to find 
our place. It's hard. Money is money. 
And she laughs loud, too loud, and one 
heel catches on the edge of the carpet. 
She leans on the pool table and stares at 
me. Her makeup looks clownish under 
the bright lamps. 
But onstage, where the music pounds 
and the light melts blue, she is smooth, 
so smooth, and when her eyes catch you, 
baby, you can't stop watching. 

Laura Bennett, a senior in Timothy 
Dwight College, is an associate 
editor ojTNJ. 



**Title: A website cures bad habits sometimes.**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Goethe once proclaimed, "What is not 
started today is never finished tomor-
row." Well, duh. 

Goethe may have been a decent writ-
er, but I'm going to go out on a limb and 
say that at Yale, procrastination is a way 
of life. To paraphrase Freud, it probably 
all started in our childhoods. When I 
was nine I tried to read the Encyclopedia 
Britannica but lost motivation after the 
entry for "Anabaena" ("a genus of nitro-
gen-fixing blue-green algae with beadlike 
or barrel-like cells and interspersed en-
larged spores"). Or maybe there simply 
wasn't enough time, since, at the sarr1e 
age, I'd resolved to write a novel. But be-
tween learning long division and watch-
ing Power Rangers, I soon put the Pulit-
zer plans on the back burner. 

My problem, according to a few Yale 
professors-cum-entrepreneurs, was that 
I didn't incur external repercussions. 
Perhaps if I had been taunted because 
I didn't know what an anabantidae was 
(for the record, it's a farr1ily of fish) or 
had my fingers chopped off because I 
didn't write a novel" I would have had a 
little more success. 

Such is the theory behind Stidd(, an 
online service that aims to help users ac-
complish their goals by binding them to 
"commitment contracts." The brainchild 
of Yale Economics Professor Dean Kar-
lan, Yale Law School Professor Ian Ayres, 
and Yale School of Management student 
Jordan Goldberg '1 0, StickK is based on 
two well-known assumptions of behav-
ioral economics: First, incentives mo-
tivate people, and second, people don't 
always do what they claim they intend 
to do. 

The leap from theory to web site was 
simple enough, according to Karlan. "A 
lot of research suggests that commitment 
contracts can really make a difference 
and I wanted to see this in practice," he 
explains. 

His subjects first pick a goal from the 
following categories: lose weight, exer-
cise, run a marathon, vote, quit smok-
ing, and everything else. While the ma-
jority of StickK users commit to losing 
weight or exercising (40 and 25 percent, 
respectively), 30 percent create custom 
goals that run the gamut from "learn to 
use chopsticks" to "stop masturbating." 
Maybe the strangest custom goal Gold-
berg's seen? ''Adopt a baby from a third-
world country." 

After committing to a goal, us-
ers stake money on it. Pledge amounts 
vary; Stick.K's largest stake on record was 
$10,000, from someone who wanted to 
lose weight. Though such a risk might 
seem absurd, statistics show that those 
who pledge money are 40 percent more 
likely to succeed in their goal than those 
who don't. If they do fail, however, users 
must forfeit their money to a randomly 
selected charity, a friend, or an "anti-
charity." 

StickK is based on two well-
known assumptions of be-
havioral economics: First, 
incentives motivate people, 
and second people don't al-
ways do what they claim they 
intend to do. 

There are two designated "anti-char-
ities" on each ideological side of five 
controversial issues 
abortion, the envi-
ronment, gay marriage, gun control, and 
politics. Users are instructed to choose 
the organization most contrary to their 
beliefs to provide extra incentive to stay 
on task. According to Goldberg, StickK's 
CEO, those who select anti-charities are 
15 percent more likely to reach their goal 
than those who opt to donate money to 
charities or friends. 

The linchpin of this system is a referee, 
an individual who monitors the success 
of commitment contracts. Users can se-
lect anyone to be their referees 
friends, 
foes, family members, or even bosses. 
Each time a user submits a progress re-
port, his or her referee receives an email 
asking for confirmation of the report. 
The less daring SticK user can even es-
chew monetary stakes and rely solely on 
a referee for motivation. 

MY INTEREST IN STICKK was initially a 
clinical one. While I did acknowledge 
a margin for improvement, I was more 
or less happy with .myself and remained 
content to continue treating sushi as a 
finger-food and exercising only when I 
felt like it. Then I talked to my 15-year-
old brother Jared on the phone. 

"Hey, Jare, how you doing?" I began. 
"Pretty good. Got lotsa work What 
about you?" 
"Well, I'm writing an article on this 
web site that basically, like, helps people 
to achieve their goals." 
"You say 'like' a lot," Jared said. 
"Yeah, I know. But I'm not, like, half 
as bad as some of my friends.'' 
"You just said it again. Like, like, like. 
Hi my name is, like, Haley, and I really 
like saying the word 'like."' 
"Bye, Jared," I said. 

As unpleasant as it was to admit, Jared 
was right. For someone not from the San . 
· Fernando Valley, I was using the word 
"like" far too frequently. Suddenly moti-
vated to wean myself off my tic, I made a 
commitment on StickK. 

"I commit to avoid using the word 
'like' as a filler," I typed in the custom 
goal box. I knew that my goal was a lofty 
one, but I was determined to succeed. To 
maximize my chances of success, I staked 
$9.99 to the George W Bush Presiden-
tial Library, my anti-charity of choice. I 
then guilt-tripped a friend. into register-
ing as my referee and seven others into 
signing up on Stidd( as my supporters, 
which meant that they'd receive emails 
about my progress without having to di-
rectly report on it. 

Since I was working on a deadline, I 
signed up for only one week, the short-
est contract available. This meant there 
would be just one reporting period. It 
would be success or failure. If I let slip 
even one little "like," it was over. In 
hindsight, that was, like, so deluded. 

I MANAGED TO AVOID the L-word for all 
of a day by speaking like a robot. "I'll. 
Have. An. Iced. Coffee. Please." 
"Okay, R2-D2," smirked the Star-
bucks barista. 

On the second day, when speaking 
like an aridroid got tiring, I stopped talk-
ing altogether. 

"Haley, you're not going to mistakenly 
say 'like' if you ask for the salt," my ref-
eree said as I vigorously pointed at the 
saltshaker at dinner. Maybe that was so, 
but I felt I couldn't be too safe. When 
I wasn't eating or in class, I hid in my 
room so I didn't have to talk to people .. 

When I felt myself losing motiva-
tion, I pictured my money winging to-
ward Texas and meditated on tny favor-
ite Bushism: "Our enemies never stop . 
thinking of ways to harm our country . 
and our people, and neither do we." 

Then I got too comfortable. I was 
walking out of my architecture lecture _ 
with a friend, discussing the sketchbook 
assignment for that week 

"I just don't understand what we're 
supposed to draw," she complained. 
"Well, what Professor Purves said to 
do was, like, SHIT!" 

Even though I had failed, I couldn't 
bear the thought that Bush had gotten 
the better of me. I ·signed up for anoth-
er week with the same setup ($9.99 to 
Bush's library if I failed) but a slightly 
altered goal. Instead of trying to com-
pletely avoid using "like" in its. incorrect 
forms, I aimed to say it fewer than twen-
ty times a day, monitoring myself with 
a tally counter I'd rush ordered online. 
I figured physically holding the counter 
would remind me to avoid my nemesis. 
I was wrong. 

I failed again on the very first day, 
clocking in with a whopping 68 "likes." It 
would just slip out when I least expected 
it. In the Bookstore: ''I'm looking for this 
book about, like 
Damn it!" CLICK. In 
section: "I think what Kafka is trying to 
express is that, like, FUCK 
oh, sorry." 
CLICK. On the phone with my mom: 
"So for Jared's birthday I was thinking 
we could, like, SHIT." CLICK. Now I 
not only sounded like a Valley girl, but a 
Valley girl with Tourette's. 

SncKK, IT TURNS OUT, is not a magic 
wand that generates motivation out of 
thin air 
as its behavioral-economics 
foundation would suggest, it works best 
with adequate incentives. I thought that 
I had set up both of my commitment 
conuacts properly: I had a goal, a referee 
to keep me on point, and money pledged 
to an organization that I abhorred for ex-
tra incentive. How had I still failed? 

The answer may have to do with our 
natural response to negative incentives. 
Alan Kazdin, a Yale clinical psycholo-
gist who specializes in behavioral inter-
ventions, explains, "When people are in 
danger of losing money, especially to an 
organization that is contrary to their val-
ues, a likely side effect is that they will try 
to escape from it." 

It would be success or ail-
ure. li I let slip even one 
little ulike," it was over. In 
hindsight, that was, like, so 
deluded. 

For me, that avoidance manifested it.:. 
self in the humble amount of money I 
had pledged. $9.99, though not a negli-
gible amount, was by no means enough 
to keep my mind on my commitment 
contract. While I suspected this when I 
chose the amount, I wasn't willing to risk 
losing more money. 

Caroline Savello CC '09 ran (or, more 
accurately, did not run at all) into a simi-
lar problem when she committed to ex-
ercise five times a week for one month. 
"I only pledged $5 a week, which I 
knew from the beginning wouldn't be 
enough to keep me motivated to choose 
going to the gym over sitting on my 
couch watching TY," she remembers. "I 
begrudgingly forfeited the money but 
definitely felt tempted to lie." 

There is currently no way for the 
StickK administration to ensure that its 
users are telling the truth about whether 
they succeeded or not . 

"We operate on an honor code. We 
trust our users," Goldberg says. 

But perhaps StickK gives us too much 
credit. Out of the $650~000 that has 
been staked on the site since its" launch, 
only $50,000 has been forfeited. Maybe 
StickK really has helped its users success-
fully accomplish their goals, but I sus-
pected foul play. 

Anna Parks CC '09, who also used 
StickK for exercise purposes, was so trau-
matized by tf:te prospect of her money 
finding its way to the coffers of an an-
ti-gay-marriage organization that she 
"fudged" her report. 

"To me, the shame of lying was better 
than sending my money to them," Parks 
confesses. She didn't have a referee and 
admits that even if she had, "I would 
have convinced them to lie for me." 

Xan White PC '09, like Savello and 
Parks, registered on StickK with the in-
tention of pledging to jog regularly. But 
suspecting that, like Parks, he would lie 
to prevent his money from going to his 
anti-charity of choice, he decided against · 
making a contract at all. 

"I think StickK could be a great mo-
tivating tool if people found legitimate 
referees," White concludes. "Just having 
friends and family monitor you doesn't 
work because you can usually persuade 
them to lie for you." 

IF WE WERE SELF-MOTIVATED enough to 
run five times ·a week or adopt a Mala-
wian baby a la Madonna, we wouldn't 
need StickK to begin with. In theory, ex-
ternal motivators should help cultivate 
internal motivation. But the abundance 
of loopholes available to StickK users 
eliminates any real stakes the program 
could claim. Users can pledge an incon-
sequential amount of money that they 
won't be afraid to lose, or they can lie. 
Stick.K's fatal flaw is that it assumes that 
we are more motivated and moral than 
we actually are. 

"Extrinsic motivators aren't really ef-
fective for me," Parks admits. "I need to 
want to do something for myself." 

The source of my failure was not a 
lack of commitment, but rather pledg-
ing too linle money and attempting to 
subvert a subconscious habit. Next time, 
though, I am eager to give StickK a real 
shot, with higher stakes and a more 
stringent referee. 

"Hey, Jare," I say a few weeks later. 
"Hi. Mom told me about your little 
failure. Didn't think you'd be able to do 
. " 
It. 
"Thanks." 
"A-
h ' 
h 
I' h 
r: 
" 
n.uynme, t at s w at m ere ror. 
"Actually, for once, I have another 
purpose for you. Over winter break, I'm 
going to make another commitment 
contract and you're going to be my ref-
eree. " 
"Your what?" 
"My referee. You just call me out 
when I say 'like."' 
"Said it." 
"Bye, Jared." 

Haley Cohen is a sophomore in 
Davenport College. 


**Where in the world of academia is geography?**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
You don't have to know much about topography to imagine that fighting for geography education is an uphill battle. 
Study after study has desensitized the public to American students' geographic illiteracy, showing that two-thirds of Americans aged 18 to 24 cannot identify Iraq on a map; that six months after Hurricane Katrina, 33 percent of Americans in that age range failed to locate Louisiana; that nine in ten high school graduates in the United States do not know where Mghanistan is. These figures are just a few of many similar statistics that are both alarming and, to students who have been educated in geographically-ignorant America, entirely expected.


Yale is not exempt from this flaw in the American educational system. The University, which hasn't had a geography department since 1967 and employs no geographers at the undergraduate level, offers a bleak landscape for study of the discipline. In this respect, the University reflects the Ivy League norm. Though most, if not all, Ivies incorporate geographic methodology mapping and spatial thinking in programs such as economics, area studies, urban planning, and geophysics, only Dartmouth has a department of geography.


This hasn't always been the case. In the 17th and 18th centuries, when seven of the eight Ivies were born, "the study of the globes," as geography was then known, was integrated into the founding curricula of all of them. At the turn of the 19th century, elite universities began to move away from the goal of forming well-filled minds in favor of forming well-made minds. As the focus on mastering specific knowledge waned, so too did the study of geography, which at that time was restricted to plotting and memorizing maps of the celestial and terrestrial spheres. Geography began to be seen not as a college discipline but as a grade-school subject. By 1830, only the University of Pennsylvania still offered a geography curriculum.


The near disappearance of geography from the Ivy League could be seen as just another case of Ivory-Tower elitism. 
Later in that century, however, the work of an introverted English naturalist put Ivy League geography back on the map. Charles Darwin's theory of evolution reignited interest in geography, this time as a study of "man-land" relationships. For a little under a century, geography thrived in many different forms throughout the Ivy League. Physical geography, a sub-discipline closely related to geology, was the strength of Harvard's department; at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, scholars studied human use of natural resources, pioneering the sub-field of economic geography; and Yale led the area of human geography. By 1920, however, what Richard Wright, a professor of geography at Dartmouth, calls "the heyday of Ivy League Geography" had passed. Geography's most recent fall was in many ways a victim of coincidence. In just a few years, the discipline lost many of its all-stars to death, illness, and retirement. While geography programs at each of the schools waxed and waned throughout the 20th century, only Dartmouth's survived into the 21st. Elsewhere on the globe, geography remains an incredibly popular field some argue that the discipline is especially relevant for former colonizing and colonized peoples. Even within the United States, geography thrives at many Midwestern state schools. But for most of the Ivy League, geography is little more than a memory.


Geography's most recent fall was in many ways the result of coincidence: in just a few years, the discipline had lost many of its all-stars to death, illness, and retirement.


The discipline's struggle to regain its footing at the Ivies can perhaps be mapped to a struggle over the definition of the field. What in the world is geography, anyway? Despite the deplorable state of American students' knowledge of the schoolhouse globe, the notion that mere fact-based mapping constitutes geography has proved the field's biggest obstacle since academia did away with fact-gathering. It is all too easy to overlook the discipline's theoretical component, focusing instead on its applications the data collection side of geography. In this way, the near disappearance of geography from the Ivy League could be seen as just another case of Ivory-Tower elitism. Critics with a disdain for the vocational question the discipline's intellectual merit. Their claims are not entirely unfounded. At Central Connecticut State University, a sub-discipline called the geography of tourism has become increasingly popular. "A lot of our students are different from Yale students in that they are thinking of college as job training," says Cynthia Pope, a CCSU geographer who is teaching a medical geography course at the Yale Medical School a vocational institution. And, of course, it is the conceptual, not the vocational, that impresses academia. "You find this in every field," explains Haun Saussy, a professor of literature at Yale, who is currently teaching a humanities course called "Mental Geography." "We talk about the theory of translation though we don't reward people for doing translations. Translating becomes a technical thing."


Pope objects to the view of geography as "sticking thumbtacks on a map to indicate places you've visited," explaining her much more nuanced approach to the discipline: "The most basic definition of geography for me is how humans interact with their environment. The underlying themes are space and place how place impacts humans and how humans impact place."


Wright, the Dartmouth geography professor, offers an equally passionate defense of conceptual geography. "I want to emphasize that we theorize about these things," he says. "It's not a matter of collecting information about places or thinking about map projections. We theorize how scale works."


c1 want to emphasize that we theorize about these things. It's not a matter of collecting information about places or thinking about map projections. "We theorize how scale works. -Richard Wright


Today's theorizing revolves largely around shifting borders. In the age of globalization, geography is more relevant than it has been since the age of exploration. Many scholars believe that the boundaries separating today's countries from one another whether they be artificially or naturally drawn are no longer the most useful way to think about humans' relationships with each other and with the earth. "People are kind of taking it as faith that globalization abolishes distance," says Saussy, but geography complicates that assumption. Geographers are interested in the nuanced boundaries that separate people, in more than just physical features like the Berlin Wall or the Atlantic Ocean. "If you're a Haitian peasant, it's very hard for you to get to Miami, but if you are a professional in Beijing you can very easily, by sending a resume across seas, find yourself in New Haven," Saussy explains. "The potency of geography- is that it's kind of a corrective to certain illusions about globalization."


That's not to say that modern geography has done away with mapping. "Yes, we draw maps. And we're pretty good



**The Geography of Geography**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.
at it," Wright says. "But a lot of people 
think of a map as an outcome, and for 
me, it's a starting position." A map is to 
the geography student what textual evi-
dence is to the English major: a tool used 
to prove a larger thesis. "Maps have im-
portant rhetorical potential. You can be 
very persuasive about a particular line of 
inquiry by using maps in different ways. 
They can be manipulated," Wright ex-
plains. 

Paradoxically, one of the most re-
spected faces of 21st-century geography 
is also one of the most technical. Global 
Imaging Systems (GIS), a form ofdigital 
mapping, is one of today's most cutting-
edge areas of geography. GIS draws heav-
ily upon satellite imagery, creating visu-
als of places and spaces for such varied 
applications as tracking polar bears for 
wildlife conservationists and spending 
patterns for marketing firms. If anything 
has made geography more accessible and 
appealing in the 21st century, it is GIS, 
to which procrastinators across the globe 
became addicted when Google Earth put 
the world at their fingertips. 

The rise of GIS exemplifies the re-
emergence of geography in a new form 
that fuses its technical and conceptual 
strains. Avoiding the word "geography," 
Harvard opened a "Geospatial Library" 
in 2002, an online database that was cru-
cial to the foundation of the university's 
Center for Geographic Analysis. That 
same year, scholars at Brown created a 
program called "Spatial Structures in 
the Social Sciences." S4, as the program 
has been futuristically nicknamed, was 
designed to promote spatial analysis by 
bringing Global Imaging Systems and 
GIS experts to campus to offer their ex-
pertise as spatial consultants to Brown's 
existing departments and to train gradu-
ate and undergraduate students in GIS. 

Yet none of these programs are full-
fledged departments. 

"7he potency of geography is 
that it's kind of a corrective 
to certain illusions about 
globalization. " 
-Haun Saussy 

At Dartmouth, meanwhile, the plain-
ly named Department of Geography 
is remarkably successful. "We've got a 
October 2008 
pretty good reputation," Wright says. 
This is an understatement: Last year,. the 
department graduated a record high of 
47 students out of a class of 1,1 00, while 
the historic average hovers around thirty. 
Geography ranks in the top ten most 
popular undergraduate majors at Dart-
mouth. 

While any discussion about the forma-
tion of a geography department at Yale 
is, at best, on the backburner, the Uni-
versity is beginning to see geography as a 
hot topic. At the beginning of the fall se-
mester, Yale's American Studies program 
began a search for a cultural geographer 
to fill an assistant professorship. "We 
were asking ourselves, 'Where are the ar-
eas of real excitement? Where are people 
really pushing the boundaries? Where 
are people doing work that will serve our 
department's [needs] and not duplicate 
what we already have?"' says Matthew 
Frye Jacobson, chair of the American 
Studies Department. "Geography car-
ried the day." The theme of this fall's 
Franke Lecture Series in the Humani-
ties--distinct from Saussy's course 
is 
"Mental Geography: Mapping, Cogni-
tion, Appropriation, Inscription." Its ar-
ray of lecturers 
a geographer; a profes-
sor of psychology and education, and an 
anthropologist 
points to another un-
derlying facet of geography that has hin-
dered its fight for its own department: It 
is, at heart, an interdisciplinary study. 

Yet geography's interdisciplinary na-
ture is also one of the qualities that put it 
- at the cutting-edge of academia. "The in-
terdisciplinary discipline is on the rise," 
says Pope, whose work studying women 
and HIV in Latin America requires lit-
~ 
eracy in such disparate fields as epidemi-
ology, gender studies, and area studies. 

Julie Newman, director ofYale's Office 
of Sustainability, is an advocate for inter-
disciplinary studies on campus. Address-
ing the "new challenges" of the modern 
world, Newman argues, will "require ed-
ucational systems that allow 
beyond al-
low, encourage 
cross disciplinary ways 
of thinking." Many schools, however, ac-
customed to the lines between academic 
fields 
lines that geography jumps 
are 
reluctant to support as interdisciplinary 
a department as geography. "There's a lot 
of lip service paid toward them, without 
much structure," Pope explains. Priori-
ties boil down to dollars. "There are a lot 
of interdisciplinary programs, but they're 
not their own proper departments, so 
.. 
many times they don't have their own 
funding if any funding." 

Some would say this is a good thing. 
Critics claim that the most useful aspects 
of the study of geography-have been ab-
sorbed by other disciplines, rendering the 
need for a distinct department obsolete. 
"[Geography was] kind of swallowed 
up as area studies," says Yale's Jacobson. 
Symbolically, the former home of Har-
• 
vard's influential geography departme.Q:t 
is, today, its East Asian Studies Depart-
ment. At Yale, the interdisciplinary Eth-
nicity, Race, and Migration major ap-
plies a geographic spatial awareness to 
discussions of identity but is only offered 
as a second major. 

cc-u;e were asking ourselves, 
cWhere are the areas o real 
excitement? Where are people 
really pushing the boundar-
ies?'" says Matthew Frye ja-
cobson, chair of the American · 
Studies Department. ("(Geog-
raphy carried the day. " 

Still, proponents of geography defend 
the field's right to its own department. 
"We are the only discipline that pays 
primary attention to scale, location, and 
space. No other discipline really does 
what we do. And it really does matter," 
Wright pleads. There's certainly evidence 
to support his claim. After all, geography 
is always becoming. No longer a disci-
pline about drawing boundaries, geogra-
phy is a discipline about pushing them. 
• • 
TN 
Laura Zax is a junior in Silliman 
College. 


**The Plague of the Investment Banks**
**Author: Dara Lind**
**Page number(s): 38**

And so it came to pass iri . the city of 
Manhattan that a plague fell upon the 
largest of the houses of investment bank-
ing, such that they turned to dust or be-
came deformed. The plague struck first 
the house of the brothers Lehman, and 
destroyed it. Then came it to the house 
of Merrill Lynch, called Merrill, and did. 
not destroy it, but made it weak; and the 
elders of that house sought relief from 
the plague, and they placed themselves 
and all of their house under the mark of 
the house of Bank of America. And the 
houses of Goldman Sachs and Morgan 
Stanley transformed themselves and were 
no more called "investment banks," but 
were called "bank holding companies," 
and so they did change themselves and 
were not destroyed. 

And word of the plague spread quick-
ly throughout the land of New England, 
but most quickly through the settle-
ments of Eli, and made them annoyed. 
For it was then of the season when each 
year the most prosperous houses in the 
great cities would send men and women 
laden with gifts to sojourn to the settle-
ments of Eli and the other tribes of Ivy. 
And these were called the recruiters. And 
the houses of investment banking were 
known for their generosity in sending 
many recruiters, and adopting many 
tribesmen of Eli, though few understood 
the trade upon joining the house. 

But upon hearing of the plague it was 
said among the people of Eli that the 
38 
banks would take none but those who 
had already worked a season with them. 
And lo, those chosen did not. accept the 
offer at first, but waited to see the effects 
of the plague. Such was the caution of Eli 
in those days. And those who had worked 
within the house of Lehman, which had 
been destroyed, allowed themselves only 
a few days for mourning, and after re-
turned to their carousing. And they said . 
among each other, Hey, we still have op-
tions, for so they thought. Such was the 
uncertain hubris of Eli in those days. 

And it was the custom among the tribe 
of Eli to gather all the recruiters together 
for a single day, and each house was giv-
en its own stall as in the marketplace: the 
bankers and the consultants, the hedge 
funds and the makers of technology. 
Thus the eldest generation of the tribes-
men of Ell could walk among the stalls, 
collecting gifts of pens and water bottles 
and ping-pong balls, each with the mark 
of the house that brought them. And this 
gathering was called the Career Fair. 

But in these days a wariness set upon 
the settlements of Eli, and at the Career 
Fair few sought out the stalls of the in-
vestment bankers, though many were 
richly laid. For they clamored instead 
at the stalls of the Boston Consulting 
Group and its brethren; and this was 
indeed wise, for the commotion of the 
plague had made work for the consul-
tants. 

THEBO 
GOLD 
K 
AN 
ByDaraLind 
And word of the plague 
spread quickly throughout . 
the land of New England, 
but most quickly through the 
settlements o Eli:~ and made 
them annoyed. 

And many came to the stalls of the hedge 
funds, whose recruiters called among the 
clamor of the Fair, Everyone else is freak-
ing out, whereas we understand money. 
We beat the market. And this was pleas-
ing to Eli, and many who knew nothing 
of markets sat among the hedge funds, 
and took the gifts they offered. 

But while many stopped at other 
stalls, none abandoned the bankers en-
tirely, for they did not see that the plague 
of the house of Lehman was not yet 
past, but spreading. One said, Just think 
about what's going to happen to the real 
economy. His prophecy was private and 
unheeded. 

Yet, lo, in the weeks after the Career 
Fair signs of plague began to spread out-
ward throughout the land. And fear grew 
among the tribesmen of Eli. 
I 
Dara Lind is a senior in Branford College. 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**No title available**
**Author: No author available**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 40 ---
