Publication date: March 3, 1978
Volume: eleven
Issue number: three

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-in-Chief: L. Jane Dickinson, Lori J. Marian
- Publisher: Beatrice H. Mitchell
- Designer: Armand LeGardeur
- Managing Editor: Aaron Betsky
- Graphics Editor: Karen Sideman
- Assistant Editor: Marilyn Achiron
- Photography Editor: John Laing
- Editorial Staff: Darcy DiMona, Damon P. Miller II, Steve Rogers
- Business Staff: Susan Amron, Jim Clark, Caroline Mitchell, Gordon Robertson, William H. Wood III
- Graphics Staff: Karyn Voldstad, Helen Runnells, Damon P. Miller II, Geoff Piel, Craig Fitt, Bill Tarbell, Dicke Foote
- Friends of the New Journal: David Budil, Lenore Skenazy, C.O.D., little E.G., Snee, Roger Ferlo, David Sleeper, Jeff Warren, Charlie Krouse, Joe DiMona, Curt Sanburn, Phil Ahwesh, John Barber, Jan Kie, Peter, Agnes, Josh, Kitty, Bosco, Nigel, Erica, "Bob", Mr. "How tall are you?", The O.C.D.


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- comment: manifestly ducky, modestly budget ina, animal farm revisited, linsy-chitsy - Aaron Betsky
- Layaway for Judgment Day - Lee Lieberman
- in the anteroom of Justice - Richard Vigilante
- The Rise and Fall of V - John Laing
- a story of vocation - Staff
- Tropicana - Staff
- a photo-essay - Zimmer Voss
- The Human Brain - A. R. C. Finch
- put a head together - Staff


**Title: The Disney Manifesto**
**Author: Roberta L Baker**
**Page number(s): 2**

In 1971, two Chilean exiles wrote a book about Donald Duck. They called it Imperialist Ideology in the Disney Comic, and set out to expose a familiar water fowl as a fiend of fiends: the child imperialist. The Christian Science Monitor's man in Santiago, Brother Sebastian, remarked that "as long as the smiling face of Donald Duck parades innocently throughout Chilean cities, as long as Donald Duck means power and collective representation, then imperialism and the bourgeoisie can sleep peacefully."


Evidently, the allegations against one of America's favorite beasts stem from what he di4 to the Abominable Snowman: in one comic strip D. Duck swindled the tundra despot out of Ghengis Khan's precious stones - for which he swapped a cheap watch. It was Timex model 117, with luminous digits and an imitation leopard band.


From accounts contained in The Collected Abominations, the snowman's posthumously published diary, it is clear that two days before the transaction, a pregnant Kodiak bear identified by the Sierra Club as Daisy threatened to maul the aforementioned snowman if he did not hand over his Bulova "Marquis." Fearing for his life, he complied with the angry bear's requests.


In a subsequent entry, A. Snowman confessed that he was a "sucker for beasts of burden" and "fair birds from temperate regions." Lottie Mendoza, a housekeeper in Fort Jeffrey, Saskatchewan, testified that on the night of January 20, 1942, a creature wearing Muk-luks and aT-shirt, toting a shopping bag and answering the description of A. Snowman, entered a bar and grill in the Italian section of Fort Jeffrey with a large canary slung over his shoulder.


Joanne Watson, the harassed bird, told police that "the son of a bitch thought I was a duck. We got to this room at the back of this bar, and he took some kind of feather suit out of a shopping bag and said 'Put this on.' Then he blew up this kiddie pool, you know the kind from Sears. He filled it with water and said, 'Get in.' He was making these duck calls and splashing around me. He was starting to melt. That's when the police came in."


The Abominable Snowman was· arraigned in Fort Jeffrey municipal court on January 21, 1942, on two counts of disturbing the peace, and bestiality.


A. Snowman's biographer, D. Edgeworth Stickwell of Cambridge, disclosed information on Snowman's youth to Scotland Yard, after the hardbound edition of Imperialist Ideology in the Disney Comic hit the U Diversity bookshelves. According to Stickwell, A. Snowman was of Chilean descent. Anatomically, he represented a rare genus of high altitude Andes mammalia that, because of Peace Corps reforestation and guerilla warfare, migrated south to the Cape of Good Hope and north to the Aleutian Islands. It is possible, states Stickwell, that Snowman "was sidetracked" to Saskatchewan, or "got lost." At any rate, Stick well revealed the identity of Snowman's paternal grandfather to Yard officials. Juan (Gem) Fritato, alias "Pop-Pop" in Snowman's Collected Abominations, operated a small jewelry store in Santiago and served until 1971 as quality control consultant at Timex International of Santiago.


Stickwell, upon close examination of Snowman's estate, discovered a medium-sized cardboard box; it contained forty-three discontinued Timex watchbands - veritable collector's items. The most valuable one, according to the Chase Manhattan Diamond Exchange, is the imitation leopard band, which Snowman purchased from Donald Duck.


This points to the fact that the Abominable Snowman was not swindled by an American bird. But it does not vindicate Donald Duck from Chilean accusations of imperialism, or Walt Disney from being American. The evidence lies in How to Read Donald Duck: Imperialist Ideology in the Disney Comic, which reads like the Communist Manifesto. Ariel Dorfman and Armand Mattelart think and write on that thin line between absurd viability t and viable absurdity. The book is not a work of enduring literary distinction, and the two gentlemen of Santiago remain in exile.


**Title: A Modest Proposal**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Yale University finds itself in the midst of a financial crisis of unprecedented proportions. In order to achieve lasting economic equilibrium, Yale must adopt a new philosophical stance towards education. The age of carefree expansion and economic largesse is over. It is time to buckle our belts.


The notion of "pay-as-you-go" has never been strong currency in the academic marketplace. It is time for the Invisible Hand to make its appearance. We must restructure Yale.


In the future, all applicants to Yale must submit a non-refundable $1000 application fee. The first 2500 applications received after January I will determine the following September's freshman class. All those students matriculating will be required to post a $100,000 bond in advance to pay for four years at Yale. There will be no scholarships or student work programs, thereby eliminating the stigma of financial inequality.


In order to accommodate the great influx of new students (which will follow from the doubling of each class' size), several steps will be undertaken. All college libraries will be closed, their books auctioned, and their space converted to dormitory rooms. All living rooms in suites will become bedrooms for four students, and all off-campus housing will be prohibited.


Within each college, masters and deans and their staffs will be replaced by one College Manager. Hot water will be limited to the hours of 6 to 7 a.m. Electricity will be available only during the night hours. All electrical appliances (e.g., clocks) will be subject to stiff energy surcharges.


Students will voluntarily perform all custodial services in all University buildings. (Yale's blue collar strike experience has ably demonstrated the University's capacity for self-sufficiency in this regard.)


All dining hall service will be contracted to the Macke Company. As they are currently run, the dining halls are both expensive and inefficient. By the introduction of automatic food vending machines, a cautious balance between cost efficiency and the dining halls' traditional dignity could be struck. Only three dining halls would be open; this is sure to guarantee greater inter-college communication. Students might not eat what they pay for, but at least they would pay for what they eat.


Several far-reaching academic changes are foreseen. All special programs would be eliminated (e.g., Directed Studies). No double majors would be permitted without surcharge. Each student would take at least 75 per cent lecture courses. Summer terms will be mandatory, graduate students will be required to be unpaid teaching assistants, and undergraduate students will also be encouraged to take on teaching responsibilities.


In the future, faculty salaries will be based on enrollment levels in the individual professors• courses. Tenure will not be given. Professors will be subject to a mandatory publication schedule, and in order to increase faculty competition to publish, Yale U Diversity Press will close. Early continued to page 15


**Title: Statement from the Hearing on the P. Bear Incident**
**Author: Alfred Sturtevant**
**Page number(s): 3**

Well, it happened at the victory celebration over at Piglet's house. That was one for Owl's re-election to the post of Governor-General of the Forest - you remember, the one with the 99% turnout at the polls? We were all understandably pleased with the way things had gone, though not unprepared; in fact, the invitations had been out for weeks, and of course the memorial and the catering were arranged two months in advance. But really, an election in a one-party police state is never much of a surprise.


What's that? Oh yes, I admit it - you'd have to be rather a fool not to recognize the set-up here, despite all that "People's Democratic Republic" nonsense (incidentally, this is a closed hearing, isn't it?). We all feel quite happy with the way we've arranged things in the Forest. Once we got CR out of the picture - oh, did you like that? yes, that was Roo's idea; ingenious, wasn't it? Though really, most of this was Roo's idea. He'd been reading some of CR's history books, and later, well, we all helped him get more material. Of course, we were shattered, simply shattered, by hls death - such a waste, we all felt ... and we'd no idea his mother was a loyalist; one wouldn't have thought, with the way CR treated her in the old days - but I suppose we'll never know.


The party, yes of course. It was very nice - lots of food and drink, and Tigger had persuaded a troop of those young Mousettes to come along, so after the ceremony with the Roo memorial things began to get quite jolly. I remember Piglet said something about his neighbors and the noise, but we sent Rabbit and a few of his friends over and there wasn't any more trouble.


Well, we had music, and then dancing, and then a lot of speeches about the Glorious Martyr, and how-moving-such-a-noble-display-popular-affection-anniversary-his-infamous-murder, and then more dancing. As I said, it was quite jolly.


I think it was about then that Pooh got up and started sounding off. Actually, he'd been at it for a while before we noticed - there was rather a lot else to do, you see. Pooh bad been acting glum for weeks, and we all felt he was hitting the bottle a bit hard; Piglet says he saw him crying on some little mouse-girl's shoulder earlier in the evening. At any rate, none of us were particularly surprised to see him cutting loose, so when we realized he was talking we all gathered round to listen. A couple of mice cheered, and a few others began laughing and jeering. He didn't seem to appreciate that, so I ... well, I'd always rather liked old Pooh Bear, especially after that tail incident, so I had them discreetly bushed up. We couldn't make out what be was saying, there was a lot of competition, what with Tigger and Rabbit returning, and Pooh had to start shouting - I believe he mentioned Kanga, and then plots, and traitors, and something about conscience. We all felt this was in rather questionable taste, considering the day, and were 9 about to suggest he move on to a more congenial topic, when suddenly be gave a funny sort of wheeze and clutched his chest. At first we were very alarmed, particularly when he fell off the table, but Owl pointed out it was just aU that drink hitting old Pooh at last, and some of Rabbit's friends helped us to carry him over to a corner to sleep it off. We all agreed he looked quite comical; the mice were hysterical with laughter.


When? I understand it was about a half-hour later. Actually I wasn't there when they found out, I'd left with a friend. But, again as I understand it, some mouse-girl was going through Pooh's pockets when she began to shriek, and then of course they all saw. It came as a terrible shock to me, simply terrible; after all, Pooh had been one of us from the start, CR's favorite, so a marvelous source. I think you'll understand if I tell you I broke down and cried at the State Funeral, and Piglet -


Oh. Well, you're more than welcome - I'm anxious to help in any way I can to apprehend the party responsible for this monstrous crime against the State (that's from my new poster- have you seen it yet?). I'm sure that you are all as confident as I am that the perpetrator shall be brought to justice by the time the year is out, and that you will show no leniency. I know he would have wanted it that way.


Thank you, gentlemen.


**Title: Commacal**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

Recent scholarship has provided a fundamentally new approach toward understanding John Milton's syntactic and semantic usage in Paradise Lost.' By systematically applying the vast compendia of modern linguistic procedures of deep structure analysis, one garners new cognitive interpretations '6f this epic poet's manipulation of grammatical, syntactical, and punctuational devices. The present study focuses our attention on Milton's punctuational notation: particular emphasis being laid to rest on his heroic use of the seemingly banal: the rudiments of English punctuation: the comma (,), the semicolon (; or • ), the colon (:), and the period (.) The occurrences in his works of the exclamation mark (!) and the question mark (?) are so rare as not to warrant their serious consideration in this study. (The interested reader is commended to two f'me articles on the frequency and specific usages of these two punctuational marks in E. I. Symington-Bradshaw's classic nineteenth century treatise: The Renaissance Comma (Princeton, 1825).)


Of the many laudable exempla available for our consideration, one is chosen as a model for our comparative analysis. This aesthetic masterpiece of style far exceeds the exigencies of our explication:


Not just, not God; not fear'd then, nor obey'd: (IX, 701)


The casual perusal of even the disaffected reader cannot help but make him yield in submission to the wealth and regal majesty of this dulcet clause. The fJrSt comma breaks forth with a gasconade of Milton's prosodic acumen: it initiates our analytical process. The fJrSt comma, standing in the critical position following the second word and signalling the first of two caesurae in this line, stands as an continued to page 15




**Layaway for Judgment Day**
**Author: Aaron Betsky**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 
Layaway for Judgment Day 
by Aaron Betsky 
The scales of justice are held by 
Liz, open-eyed clerk of the Superior 
Court of New Haven. She sits in her 
glass booth on the ninth floor of the 
Court Building on Church Street and 
controls the entrance to the jury 
elevator. Her captive audience (in the 
form of several hundred bored citi-
zens) sits around her waiting for the 
crackle of the intercom, which Liz 
relinquishes four or five times a day 
to one of the sheriffs ... Numbers 808, 
2357, 2368, 2418 ... " As the numbers 
are called out, corresponding faces 
Light up, sigh, or return to their 
waiting, reading and needlepoint. 
Those called will form the basis for a 
jury, lost somewhere in the entrails of 
this large building or the criminal 
court across the street, pronouncing 
judgment on their peers. The captive 
citizens ar~ engaged in an exercise of 
patience and aggravation called Jury 
Duty. 

Most people are not alarmed when 
they receive the first notice from the 
court system that they have their 
number. Only when they open the 
mail and find that four weeks of their 
Life is going down the drain of public 
responsibility in support of the law . 
schools do they start to curse, connive 
and generally work: themselves out of 
this God-given right. They do this 
with varying degrees of success. I was 
one who lost. 

I showed up at the courthouse early 
one Monday morning in my best 
clothes, secure in the knowledge that I 
was a smart-ass Yalie, not a real 
townie. For an hour, the roll call was 
taken. For an hour, we watched a 
movie on jury duty QOt unlike those 
shown to snickering audiences in sex 
ed or driver ed. The Honorable Judge 
Aaronson lectured us for half an 
hour. For an, hour, I waited, until it 
was finally my turn to whisper my 
confession to the judge: that I was a 
Yalie, unacceptable and with many 
obligations. The wearied judge wiped 
his forehead, told me about the 
importance of youth and intelligence, 
and let me off with a two-week: 
sentence. Stunned, I retreated to my 
Dean in search of pity, but Mother 
Eli was helpless. So I told my teachers 
to behave and took: off for my two-
week stint. 

The view from the ninth floor is 
actually quite magnificent. From the 
large Assembly Room, you can look 
through three large circular windows 
out to the golden New Haven harbor 
and the Sound, or to the hills rolling 
out to Sleeping Giant. From the 
various lounges, Yale and Downtown 
stretch out in all their urban might. I 
chose a lounge from which I could see 
my neo-Gothic home, the classrooms 
I should have been in, the library I 
should have been buried in, the bed I 
should have been sleeping in. But Liz 
watches my every movement at the 
elevator, tells me when to come and 
when to go, dispenses proofs of 
attendance, allows favors. One ab-
sence could cost me $50. So I am 
confmed to the dirty, yellow-and-
white lounges, the air filled with 
heavy smoke, tbe temperature in the 
eighties. Card games, puzzles flourish, 
pieced together by changing bands. 
Knitting and talking transcend old 
ladies; .. My tongue is so tired, it really 
hurts," exclaims one worried woman 
at the end of the day. Forced together 
unnaturally, a representative cross-
section of the population of Southern 
Connecticut must spend sixteen days 
together in close contact, forming an 
extended family. Jury Duty is waiting, , 
becoming a peer among peers. 

I have unconsciously chosen, along 
with my lounge with a view of Yale, a 
group of fellow waiters. Barbara is a 
school teacher in West Haven. Bill is 
an industrial engineer. Janet, a sec-
retary, Bunny, a key-punch operator. 
Bill is retired, John unknown, small 
and intently interested in everything. 
Sidney is the mystery, of unknown 
profession, quick, the cynical card 
player. Several minor players fill the 
fringes of the room, sometimes enter-
ing the conversation. The conver-
sation is aimless, searching. Barbara 
and I discuss education. "It's the 
toughest job in town," she says, 
adjusting her glasses. "They're just not 
keeping to basics anymore," she 
smoothes her skirt, "no discipline." 
She discusses the trouble finding 
substitutes, the glut in the teacher 
market; I drift away. Her manner is 
easy, stem, I close my eyes and sec: 
my high school German teacher. Bill 
is also worried about education. about 
the quality of life. They discuss West 
Haven. Barbara is missing her vaca-
tion for this, Bill just his salary. The 
state pays $10 a day, plus JOe a mile. 
"That just about covers the cost of my 
sweat up here." People wonder 
whether to have lunch, discuss brands 
of cigarettes. The other Bill doesn't 
mind the duty. He gets a chance to 
work on his needle point. He is 
embroidering orange flowers. He 
frames the works himself, hangs them 
or sells them. He has another hobby 
as well. The next day, he produces 
slides and samples of his work, 
carefully ignoring the oohs and ahhs. 
There are mostly partridges and other 
birds of the woods, painstakingly 
painted on canvas or on clay models 
in woodland colors. A UConn student 
intrudes into our snug group, tries to 
talk about Whitman with me, telling 
me the others are not students. The 
others compare houses, places of 
work, addresses, friends, tell stories. 
"You know, there was this girl, came 
to work at the office, never said 
anything to anyone. Turned out, she 
had this problem, you know, but she 
didn't dare tell it to anyone, you 
know, she was sort of ashamed." 
"That's the way it is, these people 
with problems ... " I feel very 
problematic. 

As the days drag on, we try and 
remember the chant the ftlm gave us, 
repeated over and over again: "He 
who waits also serves ... he who 
waits also serves." We sit and wait, 
trying to amuse each other. After a 
while, you long to be called. Then: 
"2609 ... " A jump up, a wait. I enter 
the elevator, face new faces in silence, 
step off in a floor, white corridors in 
office light. We wait in little rooms, 
not Icnowing what will happen to us. 
The thought of judgment lurks in our 
minds, somewhere. We are ushered 
into a small courtroom, no windows, 
stylized furniture and the bright 
American flag, bidden fluorescent 
lights. The judge instructs us. The 
case seems somewhat byzantine: a 
the new journal, March 3, 1978 
mother, daughter and two friends are 
suing the son and brother for a car 
accident that happened five years ago; 
it slowly emerges that Hertz is a co-
defendant, that they are paying the 
lawyer. Five impatient, black faces 
scan the twenty-four members of the 
panel, until we are led out so that 
questioning of the jurors can begin. 
The plaintiffs lawyer bas frizzy hair 
wears a green tie and green suit with a 
yellow-grey shirt. He is overweight. 
The defense attorney wears a J. Press 
suit, has a classically chiseled New 
England face and smiles at the jury 
over his Ben Franklins. This could be 
tough. We ftle out, wait interminably, 
twelve blank faces facing each other 
and the empty SNETCO offices 
across the way. Finally, we are called 
in again. The case has been settled out 
of court, as most cases are. Relieved 
and disappointed we reascend our 
lofty perch overlooking New Haven. 
The next day presents a repeat.of 
the same procedure. Same number 
called, same courthouse. The steno-
grapher looks at us, bored, chewing 
gum with her mouth open. At the 
meat depot on Long Wharf, one 
worker had attacked another and 
caused him grievous bodily injury, for 
which he wants money. Jurors are 
actually called. Some are taken, some 
rejected. The tension in our little 
waiting room rises. A nationalized 
French woman complains about the 
government, everywhere and on all 
levels. "They don't care, they treat 
you like this. You know nothing. 
They know it all Just power, that's 
all, we elect them, and they get the 
money, and that's all they care." 
There is much agreement in the room. 
John and I discuss Washington and 
the allurements of power until John is 
called and, after half an hour of 
questioning, accepted. I too am called, 
after several more have been accepted 
or rejected. The first question from 
that same chiseled defense lawyer: Am 
I still at Yale. Yes. Oh yes. Do I 
believe that it is just to demand 
money in return for bodily harm? 
Trying to wipe the nervous smile off 
my face, I answer that, given the 
present structure of our society and 
the importance of money in it, I think 
money is as fair a reward for harm to 
your body as any. I am excused after 
this question. 

So goes the procedure, running 
through the mill, sometimes falling 
through it into a jury, or else stepping 
off for a while until we have a chance 
to run a couple of laps and get a 
glimpse of justice. Back upstairs, we 
play our own games now, and they 
make the days go quickly. Sidney, our 
favorite wheeler-dealer, runs the 
games. Dealing the cards for five-card 
stud, he talks of his vacation in 
Vegas, of the Arabs there. "They're 
buying up everything. What's money 
to them? They just pump it out. Sit 
down at the table. be says, this Sheik:, 
I drop couple hundred thousand. 
Nothing to them. The English own 
the Mall down here, know that? Sure, 
sure ... " Time flies, as monopoly-
money changes hands, greed comes 
out and disappears. We play 
monopoly, poker, learning new tricks 
and variations. We propose to ask the 
judges to join us up here. Our comer 
has become a hideout for decadence, 
full of smoke, gambling, risque jokes 
and even an occasional four letter 
word puncturing the eardrums of the 
silent ladies in the far comer of the 
lounge. I tried to work here, but gave 
it up. Fiercely, rm trying to unload 
Baltic. The jokes come quick, leaden. 
continued to page 13 


**The Rise and Fall of V**
**Author: Lee Lieberman and Richard Vigilante**
**Page number(s): 5**

5 
The Rise and Fall of V 
by Lee Lieberman and 
Richard Vigilante 
V's fruit selling period marked the 
apex of a distinguished career. The 
fruit business is no rags to riches 
fly-by-night enterprise for shifty spec-
ulators. It takes hard honest toil. But 
at last, V was a man of station, 
honored by those he loved -
which 
is a kind of greatness. 

V had shifted his comer. The Greek 
had disappeared, a disappearance 
which may seem providential to the 
reader. The Greek had a truck. He 
had driven it away. Without seeming 
overeager, V's plywood fruit cart built 
on top of a shopping wagon and 
covered with a sheet (for decoration) 
approached the corner and took its 
place. The response of the public was 
gratifying. V's income doubled over-
night and grew steadily after that. No 
longer was he put to shame by giving 
away bananas at three o'clock. V 
made confident predictions about the 
state of the fruit market to his 
friends, and his family acclaimed him 
as a genius. 

V, his father, had not always had 
such a fine opinion of his son. His 
son was a bum; a congenital and 
worthless bum. His son only a few 
months before had left Yale halfway 
through a tuition payment. "Leaving 
Yale" perhaps gives an impression of 
more activity on his son's part than 
actually took place. Better to say that 
there came a time when his son was 
no longer at Yale. Nor was he 
anywhere else. He was relaxing. His 
mother Va, who had no more regard 
for her son than did her husband, got 
V a job in a matzoh ball warehouse. 
This was a bit strange, since V is a 
notably Italian name. But V's father, 
who had had scholastic training, 
pointed out that V would not actually 
be working in the warehouse but on 
the delivery truck. Va was a bit 
concerned about her son's plight. But 
her husband, who felt strongly about 
the matter, laid down the law in no 
uncertain terms. Like Sisyphus, V was 
atoning for his sins by rolling an 
eternal matzoh ball up an endless hill. 
Va was much comforted. V was fired. 

V was next employed as a clerk 
on Wall Street. He flourished for a 
while, writing down numbers and 
adding or subtracting them, and 
answering the telephone. During his 
lunch hour, V watched the Greek. 
The Greek was a genius. He sold 
apples and oranges for 25e a piece 
and bananas at two for a quarter. He 
sold I ,200 pieces of fruit a day and 
made 900 dollars a week. V earned 80 
dollars a week after taxes. V decided 
to emulate the Greek. 

Va was distressed at the notion of 
replacing my son at Yale with my son 
the peddler. V's brother, at pains to 
help, quietly offered to get V a job 
writing symphonies, so the family 
shouldn't worry. V senior smiled 
sardonically, pleased with the ac-
curacy of his predictions. His son 
would be a bum after all. V obtained 
a licence, stole a shopping cart, 
bought materials, and talked eagerly 
about the conflict between a fast 
moving banana and a high priced 
apple. His friends regarded him with 
sadness. 

At trrst V's fruit was not greeted 
with enthusiasm. The passersby 
noticed V and the fruit, but were not 
impressed by the fact that he was 
selling it. They did not seem to realize 
that they were part of the process. V 
was forced to rechannel some of his 
product. He made many apple pies. 
V's father was pleased -
he liked 
apple pies. But with the departure of 
the Greek, everything changed. 

Crowds swarmed around V's cart. 
Women grabbed and squeezed the 
fruit, even the bananas. It was okay: 
they sold anyway. Businessmen man-
fully plucked apples off the top of the · 
cart. Children screamed for more fruit 
and waved sticky orange-juice-covered 
hands over their heads. Wandering 
minstrels attracted by the crowds sang 
their lays and plucked their guitars 
and passed their hats. V gave them 
free apples in remembrance of his 
brother. 

V did not forget his family in· his 
days of greatness, and they were 
humbly grateful. Va, moist-eyed, 
marvelled over her son. V muttered 
something about Prince Hal. but 
neither came o'er his son with his 
wilder days nor measured what use he 
had made of them. In fact, he 
wavered between deference and a 
dignified and distant respect. With the 
hopeful awe of the amateur ad-
dressing the professional, he gave his 
son advice about handling bananas. 
Once the object of scorn and derision, 
but now righteous and successful (or 
successful and righteous), V was 
clutched to the bosom of his family 
and beamed light upon them. 

. The next day, a policeman appeared. 
A local merchant had complained that 
V's cart was interfering with his own 
business. Jealousy, that green-eyed 
monster, hath ever been a rag tag 
camp follower to the fortunes of the 
great. The policeman told V to vacate 
the premises, suggested that this 
might be accomplished simply by 
pushing the cart round to the other 
side of the comer, wrote a summons 
(for a minor violation), winked, 
pocketed an apple, and strode away, 
having fulfilled his duty as the 
defender of the public peace. V's 
fortunes, however, were not secure. 

The next morning a second policeman 
appeared. He politely informed V that 
he and his cart were in a restricted 
area. V, firm in the knowledge of the 
municipal regulations concerning fruit 
sellers and their carts, politely in-
quired where wasn't a restricted area. 
The policeman informed V with pride 
that there were no non-restricted 
areas in his precinct, and that his 
precinct extended several miles in 
every duectiori. V's ~rt was carrying a 
large, heavy, expensive load, and it 
was almost lunch hour. V continued 
to sell fruit. The sight of V selling 
fruit drove the policeman to a frenzy. 
He began to write summonses very 
quickly. He wrote thirteen of them. 
Then he began· to yell and threaten V 
with the paddy wagon. When he 
finally left, he was quite red in the 
face, and V's profits for the day had 
evaporated. 

In the morning, the Greek was 
there. On the comer. V's corner. The 
Greek's comer. V pushed the cart into 
its usual position. The Greek walked 
over and smiled. "Hello my friend," 
said the Greek. "What are you 
doing?" V replied that he was selling 
fruit, 25¢ for apples and oranges and 
bananas 2 for a quarter. "This is my 
corner," said the Greek. "You go 
back to your comer." V explained 
that since the Greek had been away 
for quite some time, this was now V's 
corner. "This is my corner," the 
Greek repeated. "You must go away." 
V began to set up for the day's work. 
"Okay," said the Greek. "I am going 
to kill you." 

Fortunately, this was unnecessary. 
When the crowds began to come, they 
came to the Greek. Not all of them, 
of course. The laws of chance 
wouldn't stand for that. V got an 
occasional customer. Probability, it 
seems, is only reliable when dealing 
with very large numbers. How many 
businessmen did not want an apple at 
the moment they passed V's cart, and 
were yet ravenous with apple hunger 
a few seconds later when they passed 
the Greek? By the end of the day all 
thoughts of murder had vanished 
from the mind of the Greek. The . 
Greek, no doubt, realized that 
Hercules was with him. At any rate, 
at three o'clock, the Greek, fruitless 
and smiling, closed down his truck 
and drove away. 

On the opposite side of the street, 
o·n a comer a block away, an old 
woman tended a hot dog stand. She 
was very ugly' and entirely round 
except for her legs, which were 
square. Finished for the day, she 
pushed her cart over to V. "You did 
not do much business today. I buy 
from you. Give me some apples." V 
sold her half a dozen. She pushed her 
cart away, and V began to pack up 
his merchandise. 

It had begun to rain before V 
reached the subway station. The 
soggy blue cardboard apple box 
smeared all over V's shirt, turning it 
blue as well. His fruit under one arm 
and six frozen pie shells in the o~her, 
V occupied more than his share of an 
already irritable subway car. 

The subway car was made more 
irritable by the progress of a blind 
man down the aisle. He was a beggar. 
He held a tin cup in his hands and 
shook it very loudly under the noses 
of the passengers. As often as not, 
they gave him something, and he 
stumbled down the aisle, leaving them 
in peace. He stepped neatly around 
the pole and stood in front of V. He 
was a fat, well-fed blind man. 

The beggar cast a contemptuous 
glance at V, smiled at a woman 
wearing a fox, and collected a crisp 
dollar bill. V began to muse. He 
considered .his profits for the day, his 
status in the community, and, on the 
other hand, the rewards of the 
mendicant life. V calculated carefully. 
And so, like Homer, Milton and 
the glorious Panikofsky, V became a 
blind man. V's father was pleased by 
his son's classical afflliations; and 
after bottoming out, V's tmancial 
condition stabilized. 


**Tropicana**
**Author: John Laing**
**Page number(s): 6**

6 
Tropicana by John Laing 
Providenciales is one of the smaller 
islands in the Turks and Caicos group 
which lies northeast of Haiti. Rarely 
visited, because few people know 
about them and even fewer know how 
to reach them, they comprise no more 
than fifty square miles and appear on 
the map as small dots just south of 
the Bahamas. 

Most of the two hundred houses on 
Providenciales are shanty cottages 
owned by natives who work in the 
stores, the gas station and the 
airport -
a wooden shack with a 
dusty dirt runway. Nearly all of the 
six hundred inhabitants live in an 
area known as Blue Hills, a strip of 
land one and a half miles long and a 
few hundred yards wide. Many have 
come to Providenciales from other 
islands, in search of a harbor from 
the encroachments of tourism. 

Conch shells and lobster were once 
the main exports of the island, but 
now the export of shells is forbidden 
because the more exquisite specimens 
of the deepest pink and blue colors 
have vanished from the shore. I used 
to spend the day trying to find and 
photograph these shells, but I dis-
covered few that were as beautiful as 
those shown to me by the people of 
Blue Hills. 

At f~.rst I was regarded with sus-
picion because I was carrying a great 
deal of photographic equipment, but I 
managed to gain trust by showing 
around a few Polaroid snapshots and 
becoming a familiar figure in the 
area. People would pose for me with 
their children in front of the wood 
and mud houses typical of the island, 
laundry billowing like brightly 
colored sails behind them. The roads 
on the island are no more than sandy 
white tracks, stony and uneven. Great 
clouds of dust followed the rattling 
path of each passing car. I rented one 
for five dollars and drove about the 
roads to visit other beaches, the 
boatyard and the parts of Blue Hills I 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the new journal, March 3, 1978 
could not reach by foot. Long and 
beautiful beaches stretched the whole 
l~ngth of the island. 

Occasionally I would find an old 
bit of an anchor or hull buried in the 
sand, casting shadows on the grainy 
shore; bits of broken glass which had 
been worn down by the sea sparkled 
next to it. Some of the dunes near the 
island's only hotel, The Third Turtle 
Inn, rose to heights of twenty feet or 
more, populating the calm horizon. 

From· the moment I arrived at 
Provo, as it has come to be called, 
there was music. As soon as the plane 
landed, I heard a band of simple 
instruments. A middle-aged man 
began to dance and children joined in 
around him. I felt as though I had 
interrupted some ancient ritual. I later 
realized that the landing of the plane 
was a ritual -
it brought food, the 
latest Time magazine, shoes, supplies 
for the two stores on the island. In 
the undulating pattern of life on 
ProvidenciaJes, its arrival was an 
exotic motif, forcing a comparison of 
the world I came from and that of 
Providenciales, on the island's terms 
instead of mine. 

One morning I went to the airport 
to wait for the plane among the 
variegated crowd of islanders, 
musacian!>, and interlopers like myself. 
The band began to play at eleven. 
The plane had not arrived at noon, 
and by one o'clock waiting faces 
began to show signs of worry. At two 
we wondered if the clumsy DC-6 had 
finally plummeted into the blue-green 
Caribbean. Finally a tall, officialJy 
dressed man stepped out of the scant 
airport building and announced that 
the plane had just left Miami, would 
arrive at four that afternoon. We 
heard on the one-way radio that 
someone had made an emergency 
landing on South Caicos the night 
before. Amidst the general relief, a 
little boy ran up to me ... Will you 
take my picture? You haven't taken 
my picture yet." 

The sun set as the plane arrived; it 
would have to take off by moonlight, 
since the runway had no electricity. 
Gradually, lights from the shanties 
glanced off the retreating waves, the 
heavy plane lifted itself into the sky, 
and I walked on to Blue Hill!> to 
recapture the music of the morning. 


**Title: Human Brain Assembly Instructions**
**Page number(s): 8**

8 
Human Brain 
Assembly Instructions 
Items needed: 
Two large (22" X 28") sheets of thin poster board 
Rubber cement or paper glue 
Single edge razor blade or X-acto knife 
Scissors 
Paper tape 
Tacks 
Sma/1 board (4" X 5" or larger) 
Carefully remove all brain model pages from the centerfold. Lay out and glue 
or cement the pages on the poster board. Carefully cut out all the individual 
pieces, notching the tabs a little more than indicated. Stack the pieces in order not 
to lose any. Using a single razor blade or an X-acto knife, cut all the slots, 
making sure to cut all the way through the entire length of the slot (better a little 
too much than not enough, but do not get carried away). Fold any pieces on 
dotted lines if so indicated. Arrange the pieces before you so that all are visible. 
The pieces are identified by their distinctive tab, slot, or tack numbers. 
Take the ·rectangular stand piece with tack numbers and place it on a small 
piece of wood. Tack it to the wood with tacks 1-4. Take the piece containing tab 
1 and place it in slot I , slipping the cerebellum through slot zero and the splenium 
in the slot above it. Align tack positions 5-16 on the piece containing slot zero 
with those on the board and tack it down. Continue-assembling tabs and slots in 
order: flrst numbers, then letters, and finally Roman numerals. 

It would be best to tape each · letter tab and slot combination on the back side 
as they are assembled. Once the Roman numerals are completed, the finished 
cortex can be split apart slightly on the midline and slid over the stand. After 
careful assembly, this brain model becomes a welcome study aid. 

A numbered guide which provides easy identification of each puzzle piece is 
available, free. Write HUMAN BRAIN, cf o The New Journal, 3432 Yale Station, 
New Haven, Ct. 06520. 

1 
,, .......... .... 
, 
, ... ,:-..... ... 
.......... tr ; :; 
............. ,~----, 
\ 
'~\ 
. . 
,.-------\---" 
~ 
.~ 
.... 
~~--~ 
'-~--- . 
2 
.......... ~~ .. 
w.;a ...., ... 
..... 
--., .... 
. ..... . 
I 
t 
···· ~-~ 
.. 
• 
.................. .,..·- ····:···-····· 



**Title: YALE Summer Language Institute**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
YALE 
Summer Language Institute 
June 19 thru Aug. 11, 1978 
Intensive courses at beginning, 
intermediate, and advanced levels 
in the contemporary languages of 
Europe. Greek (classical and mod-
ern) and Hebrew. Elementary and 
intermediate Arabic and Latin. 
Elementary Persian, Chinese and 
Japanese at elementary, inter-
mediate, and advanced levels. In 
addition, reading courses in 
French, German, Russian, and 
Spanish for graduate students 
preparing for language ex~mina­
tions. 

Please address inquiries ·to: 
Charles A. Porter, Director 
Yale University 
305 Crown Street NJ 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520 
Tel. (203J 436-4632 


Rhymes 
Arabic 
Bulgarian 
Chinese 
Czech 
Dutch 
English Language: 
and Orientation 
French 
German 
Greek 
Hebrew 
Italian 
Japanese 
Latin 
Persian 
Polish 
Portuguese 
Russian 
Serbo-Croatian 
Spanish 
Swedish 
is a great place to 
browse & talk with those 
great kids who work there. 
BUT -
most of all Rhymes IS 
a great place to buy 
Records!!! 
59 Broadway 
562-2508 
All $7.98 list Ips $4.58 with this ad 


**Title: Head(s)**
**Author: Zimmer Voss**
**Page number(s): 12**

Head(s) 
by Zimmer Voss 
All around the walls. Thick coffee 
and cream colored wood -
thirty feet 
tall. They looked the color of infant's 
vomit on concrete. 
"It's a shame," I say to Sam, "that 
with all the money spent killing plants 
they end up with these walls the color 
of baby puke." 
"Chartle Chartle," says Sam know-
ingly, that being the way he laughs. 
He laughs the way all of Them in the 
Circle laugh. They all practice it 
together -
between trips to the 
bathroom to compare the sizes of 
their zipper stuffers -
over coffee the 
color of infant's vomit. 
He will quote me in the Column 
tomorrow. He will print my "A 
Shame" as "asha-m." I have told him 
that is the way I think it and that is 
the way it should be printed. I told 
him that the night before when he was 
drunk and I had just put every pill I 
owned in a Vita-Mixer and blended 
the shit out of them. I did it in the 
privacy of Frank's twelfth floor pent-
house. It was Frank's though I'd 
never met him, because he was a 
super rich faggot interior decorator 
with no taste who died. I had 'bought 
it and everything in it. I left it just the 
way it was. I have no need to change 
the world for me. The world changes 
its self for me. The change is not 
voluntary. The world wishes that it 
-didn't have to keep up with me, that 
it could just go off on its own and 
just Be. But that is impossible. If it 
weren't for people like me the world 
would be nothing. It knows that. It 
tries to hide the fact from me. It 
doesn't know that I knew this long 
ago. 

Sam was at a cocktail party to 
honor me. He had gotten bored and 
left. Right away because I wasn't 
there. He found me at the next party 
he went to. Standing alone in the 
corner. I was surrounded by faggots 
and frigid women who had heard 
stories. They eyed my unremarkable 
features with wonder lust. 

The women were impressed by the 
whispered stories. The faggots were 
impressed by their own opinions. 
These were not the people that I 
wanted to impress. 

· I could only at the time think of 
one person that i wanted to impress. 
She is not impressed by any stories or 
opinions that she hears, though she 
believes them all. She knows that 
everything is true. She is impressed by 
nothing. That is why she impresses 
me. 

Sam is drunk and in public. So is 
everyone. 

Except me. I am full of new jersey 
chemicals. A spoon full of them, 
scooped from the pile of rain bowed 
powder in the Vita-Mixer. In p.rivate. 
No one knows. 

Today it is Sunday. They have 
finally gotten around to the source of 
all the excitement. It is nothing by 
itself. 

But I did it. It is now the best. 
They have no idea why. They are 
moved, genuinely moved. That is 
because it is me that moves. They 
stand still. They are on a stationary 
train with no point of reference. I 
move, I am their reference, they are 
genuinely moved, standing stock still, 
eyes leaking in the speeding air. 

I am the best in their standards. 
Their standards have conformed to 
me. She is the best in my standards. 
My standards conform to her. But, 
because no one knows this, my 
standards never change. 

After I tell Sam how to spell 
ashamed, the curious do not under-
stand. 

I look at their smiling, terrified 
faces. They need me to make them 
feel good. To do this my only choice 
is to hurt them. They appreciate my 
talent. They do not understand theirs 
is much better. It is invisible to them. 
They only see what is not there. I 
only see what is. 

Contact. I drill one in the eyes. She 
is screamingly beautiful though she 
looks nothing like the one I am 
destined never to impress. "Don't you 
think, love," (I call everything love, 
it's such an easy word to say.), "that 
there are no men too small, only 
women too big." 

A faggot on the fringe mumbles 
something about Oscar Wilde, made 
braver, no doubt, by his distance from 
me. I want to sneak through the New 
York City Sewer System. Up from the 
river, up through the trunk lines, 
squeezing up through the graduated 
capillaries, all the way up to his 
apartment where I would lunge up 
through his toilet and shove a flame 
thrower up his ass. 

I do not fear albino crocodiles. 
I am unlike anyone I have ever 
known. That is because I am just like 
everyone I've ever met. 

Here we are the morning after. We, 
all of us that make up this fragile, 
twisted, world shaking power system. 
My paintings surround me in the huge 
circle of flat, square walls. In the first 
ring stand the critics experts collectors 
dilettantes and media remorra. They 
look a lot alike. They wear the same 
faces. It doesn't matter who made 
their clothes. No matter if the clothes 
were expensive. Still the being · 
who made them will never wear the 
stupid face of those who wear them. 

There is no second ring. If there 
were, perhaps it would be manned by 
the sweat shop labor. But it is not. If 
it were, they would be just as defense-
less as the first line. 

But then there is me. I have 
absolutely no defenses. I am never on 
the defensive. 

The critics do not look at me. They 
have nothing to say. I don't tell them 
anything, either in my paintings or in 
my press releases. I paint and speak a 
great deal. 

They have pronounced the .collec-
tion an amalgam of masterpieces. The 
artist has come out of nowhere to 
dazzle the world. It is the only thing 
they can say. It is their world that is 
meant. 

The paintings are shades of blue 
with pink outlines. 

The one I wanted to impress 
arrives. 

Sam disappears in a cloud of self-
inflicted insignificance. So do they all. 

She sits down next to me. We don't 
look in each other's eyes. X-ray vision 
startles the brain. 

It has been years since we met. We 
never parted. There was nothing to 
part. 

Sh~ stares straight ahead. She is 
looking at one of the paintings. She 
doesn't survey the room or examine 
closely, the way the others do. She 
just looks. Straight ahead. Her only 
mistake is that she is looking at 
another's work. It is a painting that I 
don't remember doing. That doesn't 
really matter. I don't remember doing 
any of them. 

She nods. I smile and watch her 
nod. She was small and light and 
dirty as tar. But the dirty part was the 
part you couldn't see. At twenty she 
could have been the girl on the box of 
Ivory Snow. 1 wanted her then. I 
would stand at my window and 
scream for her. But never out loud. 
That is foolish. I knew it intuitively, 
even then. I remember my incarna-
tions. That is the only recall that 
works. That is my advantage. 

She is now dirty on the outside. 
She talked it so long that it oozed like 
puss spittle out of her mouth and 
across the virgin fiber of her armor. 
Her hair hangs down in cottony 
swatches of chemical elegance. It is 
full of squeaky filth. It is now the 
color of dried blood. Her face has 
been re-upholstered poorly. 

She says that I have done a good 
job. She has no perception of how 
accurate she is. Only I do and th,at 
doesn't count. 

She has spent her life looking at 
paintings, studying paintings, copying 
paintings, talking of paintings, 
theorizing about paintings. She has 
been painting since she was six. She is 
slowly starving to death. 

I have studied people. I painted 
three months. I started with that one 
over there and finished with that one 
over there. I ran out of blue. 

She talks but her words are for 
herself. Everyone's are. Except mine. 
Mine are for God. God is blind. He 
doesn't see all, rather, he hears all. I 
tell him what he wants to hear. 

She says she dreams of paintings. 
I say that's the difference between 
us. 

I wake up exhausted with a picture 
in my head. I draw it. 


Look Your Best 


VISIT PHIL'S BEFORE yACATION 
For Appointments Call 
865-9182 
82~ WaD St. 
184 York St. 


new 
england 
house 
restaurant 
Dining tn 
a Unique Atmosphere 
Complete Lunch and Dinner Menu 
Entertainment Friday and Saturday Nights 
, 93 Whitney Avenue 624-3254 
Lunches: Monday-Friday 
Dinners: Monday-Saturday 



**Title: the new journal, March 3, 1978**
**Author: Aaron Betsky**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the new journal, March 3, 1978 
continued from page 4 
"Aaron, you get so involved, so 
intense," Bunny says. Ah, shucks. 
And so the days wear on, the 
puzzles become clearer, the dealing of 
the hands faster, smoke and drab 
colors become a drab backdrop for 
the unfolding of time, the presence of 
the intercom intermittently blaring. At 
lunch or five, we all gather in front of 
the elevators like a herd of cattle in a 
corral, waiting to be let out. Barbara 
has been called to the Criminal Court 
across the street, a feared place of real 
decisions and hard chairs in a 
practically windowless room. We were 
just in the middle of a two- to three-
hour discussion of our vacations in 
Europe when the loss came. Sidney 
finished his story of the medieval meal 
he had in Ireland, and then we switch 
back to poker. Bill and John ask me 
to identify the various parts of Yale, 
which I do gladly, pointing from the 
window at Sterling, Branford, the 
gym. We talk of children,· their tricks 
and fears. We lose Janet to a trial, 
but not her monopoly board. The day 
goes quickly. 

I am called again the next day, to a 
different court. A tenant is suing his 
landlord because he slipped on some 
steps hanging his wife's wash. The 
judge jokes with the attorneys, we 
wear stony masks. We wait in our 
little rooms, talk about Carter. 
Nobody likes him. Slowly, a jury is 
called together. In the end, there are 
only five people left in both rooms. 
Four of us are excused. The routine is 
by now familiar. The week is over, 
and I look forward to not having to 
get up at nine in the morning. 

The snowstorm keeps us apart for. 
most of the week. I find myself 
missing the decadent idleness, the 
security of inactivity on the ninth 
floor, the companionship of people 
who will never know each other. I 
know the homes and gardens a nd 
neighborhoods of five people, I know 
of Bill's tennis games, of the other 
Bill's painting and his passionate 
hobbies, the fineness of his hands. I 
know John's political attitudes, I 
know Barbara's frustration, Sidney's 
mysteriously financed vacations in 
plaid pants and Hawaiian shirts. They 
know about my courses, my interest 
in architecture, my youth in Europe. I 
took Bunny and Janet to Claire's 
where they were totally astonished: 
"I've never had an avocado, and I 
don't plan to. You know, I could 
never get my husband in here. Never." 
They are astonished at Syrian bread, 
and I am ashamed to have brought 
them here, bewildered by their reac-
tions. After lunch, they go off to the 
Mall, and I go off to Yale. The last 
afternoon, on Friday, I talk to Bill 
and Sidney about being a student. "If 
you ask me, it's mucho money for 
nothing," Sidney says, "no jobs. 
Forget it." "I'll find something," I say. 
"If I didn't think that, I wouldn't be 
at Yale. I have faith I can make 
myself a life." Sidney shrugs. "It's a 
great school, though," Bill says. We 
talk about various relatives at dif-
ferent colieges. I am called suddenly, 
two hours before it's all over. I stand 
up in the Jury Box, and ask the J udge 
to be excused. He releases me and 
eight others. Several people thank me 
for asking him. It was a dull traffic 
case, anyhow. We go back upstairs, 
where the remnants of the group, 
Bunny, Bill and John, are sitting 
silently. We don't really have much 
more to say, it is the last day, after 
all. I start on a .puzzle, and frantically 
start piecing together windows and 
door, trying to get something coherent 
before the intercom crackles for the 
last time. Some impatient ladies are 
discussing Liz, angry at what they 
think is her arbitrary use of power. 
"She just loves it, like all of us," one 
half-whispers to another. Finally, she 
speaks: "O.k., five, you're all excused 
for the week. For those of you that 
are leaving us today, I'd like to say 
that it's been nice knowing you, 
you're really a nice bunch. Take care 
of yourselves, now." I say a very 
hurried goodbye, rush to the elevator, 
ride down silently, smiling. Outside, 
the traffic is absolutely jammed. I'm 
the only pedestrian, and feel apolo-
getic that I'll actually be home in ten 
minutes. It's all over. 

I did not get a single chance to 
judge in these two weeks, as is the
case with many people. The system of 
justice seems closer, but still foreign 
to me. I feel like a traitor, pretending 
to be a citizen of New Haven. But for 
two weeks we were all traitors, 
pretending to be one large extended 
family, deriving an identity from the 
little blue buttons we wear. We are 
constituent parts of this manipulated 
court system, but we are innocent. In 
our innocence, we knew each other, 
we tried each other. We have per-
formed our true civic duty: we have 
sat side by side, and talked, and 
waited. 

Aaron Betsky is a registered voter and 
an upright citizen. 

**Title: Memories of Oceania (Matisse, 1953)**
**Author: A. R. C. Finch**
**Page number(s): 14**

Two voices; one of them, his. 
The carving of paper is blessed 
by these, my colored hands,

Echoing lively as creatures seen in the brown a1r of the stud1o, 
And building, sweet hot creatures out of the white a1r, shapes 
fit to jar the kisses in this old man's brain -
The paper is obviously 
Blessed out of need. 
Out of· the need for smoking grades, 
Out of the need for blending. 
Its clearest texture 
Is the prtss of 
shape .. . 
And what shapes 
I've given 
to the tones of that earthwork land! 
(Flat white around a charcoal rise /' 
Is the only bulge needed 
/ 
By~~ht 
'l.l~o~~~-d.usty ~rapes) \ 
This 
way he., 
ning a 
niggere_d o~~~ \
A bri 
~
-wa 
ssing nder, ·• . · 
And n it 
$u 
ode 
Stif' prima 
r 
s. 
Nofcorn_ers to. . a( 'sion, 
No' k~letd~p!c .~e u~s. 
No Ao~-edged mv 
Not · g inverse. 
It wen truck, truck, red, round, 
truck, 
uck, sweet, flat, · 
truck,, uck, stem, truck, 
truck,, uck, truck, truck. 
And t 
t was th.e moment 
Of mytatisse vision. 

The w 
le truck was filthy 
But it 
hisked like a silver shot. 
Come back to Matiss·e 
(Now, then) 
Come back: 
s~ark biack are the lines 
Of the cane-fields erupting 
Erupting un.der the sun 
And until the only rectangle 
of pink that could ever shock 
I remember vaguely how I used to stumble 
Through the hot ble~tk paffls of. tf:le sinotherina monkeys'-._.. 
And the greehs and greens of those ·moldy old junalel 
Then be brouaht 
And Bot oaly pink 
But im-.asurable c:urws 
And howliq. arowiJaa IGI_,.II 
And ~ales that floated 
Like badinqe OD fire 
And cbanjed tbe shapes of 
Till they ppe aDd •lanai and 
Stop. Hah the true~ simply 
by kecpiQI your eyc:a on it . 
Then his shaJ* wiU arow \ran-rs:nt. 
Slow 
T ossina tbcir colon 
Over their beell 
Just~be threw them 
Tog
Stop. 
y still have 
srow . 
They fi 
teeds, 8fO lille rrun 
Like waves on the earth as he found them hung, hangmg 
Wait. 
His growing hands 
Threw them all in the grande)t gesture 
I hope he never hoped this Oceanic 
moment 
Would land anywhere at all 
And so of course he let) the edges 
Fade off into discord 


**Author: William H. Wood III**
**Page number(s): 15**

continued from page 3 
ominous precursor to the triumphal 
conclusion of the line in the colon 
itself. As if this were not enough, 
Milton teases the reader's unsatiated 
philological hunger with the semi-
colon immediately juxtaposed to the 
comma in the succeeding phrase. Both 
commas, like the fire of simultaneous 
artillery during the pre-dawn hours of 
a long and rancorous war, herald 
central preeminence of this semicolon. 
This is the Implied Majestic Depend-
ency Usage of the semicolon, 
according to R. Winslow's gram-
matical and punctuational classifica-
tions. 

The succinct and indefatigable 
colon, falling at the end of the line 
when the reader is least suspecting of 
but another mark of punctuation, 
fulfills but again the Grand Design of 
the epic voice incarnate. Would that 
this might be enough, but the never 
tiring master delivers to us still 
another treat: perhaps the penultimate 
literary achievement: the two occur-
rences of the noble apostate 
apostrophe: a fitting conclusion. 
• The primary sources for this reconsidera-
tion are derived in whole or part from the 
following: Beinecke Rare Book and · 
Manuscript Library, New Haven, MS 
CCCBD 201 (1908, The Oxford Collec-
tion). The primary redaction appears in 
the following: Emmet Loy PhiJlips, .. A 
Study of Aesthetic Distance in Milton's 
Paradise Lost," Dissertation Abstracts 
International, 30 (1953), 3953-A (Oxford); 
Archibald Cabot Eliot Lowell, .. Unpub-
lished Lecture Notes," the IGttredge 
Manuscript Collection, MS DFGG-23B, 
Widener Memorial Library, Cambridge 
(1892); British Museum, Rare Unpub-
lished Works Collection, MSS 6503-2B, 
on loan through 1977 to Columbia 
University Library, Willa Cather Collec-
tion (New York), temporary classification: 
MS-Special-230xfBD. The author would 
like to extend his sincere thanks to the 
dedicated services of the Sterling 
Memorial Library research staff and the 
New England chapter of the Anglo-
American Philological Institute for their 
cooperation in procuring these data. 

William H. Wood II! 

**Title: Project Profit**
**Author: John Barber and Bill Wood**

continued from page 2 
retirement without pensions will be 
promoted. In addition, every depart-
ment will be asked to fiscally justify 
its existence each year. 

All University buildings (except 
Woodbridge Hall) will be subject to a 
modest admission charge. Library 
hours will be strictly limited to two 
hours a day, five days a week. 

Students will assume the responsi-
bility for reshelving all library 
materials. All underutilized library 
collections will be liquidated, and 
book and periodical purchases will 
cease. Book gifts will continue to be 
received, but they will be liable to 
auction. Beinecke Library will be 
cleared of all books and will be 
converted into administrative offices. 

Payne Whitney Gymnasium will be 
sold to the City of Cleveland, and 
only pr.ofitable sports like football 
and hockey will continue. Yale 
University Police Officers will be 
fired. In their place, student vigilante 
groups will be asked to maintain law 
and order. Formal graduation will be 
eliminated; modem computer print-
outs will replace anachronistic 
diplomas. All social activities will be 
run for profit by the University. 

What has been described above, 
and more, has been modestly termed 
.. Project Profit" by its planners. 
Preliminary figures project a $370 
million budget surplus by 1984. As 
early as 1981, it should be possible to 
begin aggressive reinvestment of this 
money in diversified profit-making 
enterprises. Target areas for capital 
concentration would include oil pro-
duction and military hardware. The 
planners look towards a time when 
Yale University as we now know it is 
but one small part of a giant and vital 
enterprise: the Yale Corporation. 

John Barber and 
Bill Wood 


**Title: Meeting Malle**
**Author: Jan Kie**

Meeting Malle 
In his talk two weeks ago at Yale, 
Louis Malle told of his ftrst directing 
experience for deep-sea diver Jacques 
Cousteau ... In the beginning, I treated 
my actors as if I were direcf,ing fiSh." 
Certainly this is the kind of directing 
that Malle is rebelling against now, 
and this rebellion of immediacy is 
exactly what makes his movies great. 
It wiU be interesting to see what he 
does in his first American movie, 
Pretty Baby, a story exploring child 
prostitution, which wiii soon be 
released. Until now, our reaction to 
his movies has been that of deep-sea 
divers in an alien French ocean, and 
if the Yale audience is any indication, 
it is an ocean of over-intellectualiza-
tion and trivialization. Louis Malle 
managed to cope quite nicely with the 
vacuous questions in Linsly-Chit, 
answering, as his movies do, with 
anecdotes and imagery. 

His films convey their beauty in a 
very special way. Lacombe, Lucien 
traces the affair of a young French 
Nazi and a wealthy Jewish girl. The 
most important scene in the film 
starts with a shot of Lucien, the 
protagonist, crouched naked next to 
the body of France, who is sleeping 
with her back towards us. Slowly, he 
traces the outline of her lower back 
and hips, with a motion that is highly 
erotic, loving, and awed by the reality 
of the touch. The following scene 
shows the mutilated corpses of his 
friends in the harsh sun and dust of 
southern France. In this series of 
images, Malle has brought together 
some of the more striking contrasts 
and feelings possible, reminiscent of 
Alain Resnais' (by comparison crude) 
intercutting of the Hiroshima 
bombing with love scenes in Hiro-
shima, mon amour. The secret of 
Malle's oeuvre is a series of very 
simple shots: the image we can touch 
as the film is touching the object, thtt 
synthesis of all the various levels of 
the movie in a series of tactile images. 

Malle's stories are simple, almost 
cliched: Le Souffle au Coeur (Mur-
mur of the Heart) deals with a young 
man's rites of passage from puberty 
to manhood. But in the images of this 
simple plot, Malle offers a probe into 
emotional, political and intellectual 
crises. Humor is often the centerpiece 
for such observations, for example, 
the ironic, understanding horror on 
the face of the young protagonist 
while a homosexual priest strokes his 
knees, or the apparently brutal slash-
ing of the parents• "adored .. Corot by 
his brother, who has replaced it with 
a fake. 

Watching Malle on the stage, 
unpresum.ing and brilliant, was 
enough to restore my faith in The 
Great Director as well as reinforce my 
prejudices about Yale. Louis Malle 
and his movies are about that simple 
identification of the fictional reality 
with our own; we feel what the 
(usually non-professional) actors feel, 
see what Malle sees, laugh with the 
fated irony of his plots. Perhaps the 
best way to sum up Louis Malle's 
work is with his (improvised, 
according to him) last scene of Le 
Souffle au coeur": slowly, one actor 
after another breaks out laughing 
over a situation that could be 
potentially destructive -
the dis-
covery of the son's affairs. Staged in 
curtain call fashion, their laugh grows 
and grows until it reaches out into the 
audience, without subtracting or 
adding anything, to envelop us. 

jan Kie 


**Title: Mauling Malle**
**Author: Cina Inamorata**

Mauling Malle 
I have come away from Linsly-
Chittenden thinking Louis Malle is a 
nice man. My friend tells me that he 
looked, nay, glanced (like a search-
light) at me for several seconds this 
evening. Maybe he will make me a 
star. Instead of sleeping tonight I 
shall .think on his white sweater pure 
as virgin snow. 

Louis Malle does not make films 
about incest, lust or anything else 
which might unsettle his public. He is 
a nice man: good-looking, unimagina-
tive and evidently dynamic on the set 
(running about in sweatbands, smok-
ing dope). And he just sort of wishes 
that everyone, everybody together, 
could be good-looking and dynamic 
on the set; mothers and sons, jews 
and nazis ... the works. This simple 
formula may beg too much patience 
from the more intellectually blood-
thirsty of his audience. Perhaps 
someone could be mean to little 
children, someone could be in despair, 
or (HUSH) someone could be ugly. 
But Louis Malle doesn't believe in 
ugliness, he believes in me. 

Lacombe, Lucien and Murmur of 
the Heart, the two films recently 
shown on campus, involve a tricky 
dialectic; the first -
how complicated 
everything is when nothing happens, 
and the second, how simple it is when 
everything happens. From what I 
understand New York critics have 
been going mad with joy. Maybe I 
too would go mad with joy if I were 
being paid to write reviews. I would 
buy a white sweater pure as virgin 
snow instead of the bathrobe my 
grandmother chose. If you had to 
wear the bathrobe your grandmother 
chose you'd be mean too. 

Cina Inamorata 



**Summer Session 1978**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
summer 78 
Enrollment forms are available in the offices of the residential college 
deans and in the Summer Planning Office, 110 SSS. 

Alternatives 
You can enroll in two different ways: 
Regular: take three, four, or, with permission, five 
courses. The term counts as a regular Yale term. 

Supplementary: take two or three courses and do not 
count the term as one of your eight (or fewer) terms of 
enrollment. Credits earned during the summer count 
towards degree requirements. 

The Summer Term offers interdisciplinary programs 
on a variety of topics as well as basic courses in 
traditional disciplines. Students have the options of 
concentrating in a single program, electing courses in 
a number of different programs, or taking basic 
courses in one or two departments (such as pre-
medical courses). 

Program 
Humanities- Calhoun College 
The Dramatic Experience 
The Roots of Modern Culture: Europe, 1870-1920 
Ethics 
Images of Greece and Rome in Western Civ)lization 
Film 
British Art (conducted at the Paul Mellon Centre in 
London. Application deadline: March 15th.) 

Social Sciences -
Trumbull College 
Problems of Literacy 
Social Change and Modernization 
Politics of Divided Societies 
The Information Revolution in the Non-Experimental 
Sciences 

Joint Programs: Humanities and 
Social Sciences 
Women's Studies 
The Fabric of Culture: The American Experience 

Natural Sciences- Berkeley College 
The Nature of Scientific Thought 
Genetics and Biochemistry 
Chemical Engineering 

Features 
Rooms: Every student will have a private bedroom in 
either a single or a three-room double. 

Activities: Social and cultural activities include the 
Summer Film Society, the Summer Ora mat, concerts, 
dances, and frequent lectures. The Payne Whitney 
Gym is open and the playing fields, tennis courts. golf 
course, riding stables, and the Yale Sailing Center are 
available. 

Writing Consultation: The Summer Term offers a 
writing consultation service to help students improve 
their writing skills. 

Cost 
Tuition 
(3 or more credits) 
(2 credits) 
Room 
Board 
(21 meals) 
(15 meals) 
$1,785 
$1 ,200 
$390 
$440 
$346.50 

In 1978, a student attending the Summer Term on 
Regular Enrollment will spend at least $1,000 less 
than in a Fall or Splling term during 1978-79. 
Financial aid is available. For further information, 
stop by the Financial Aid Office. 

