Publication date: April 19, 1982
Volume: 14
Issue number: 6


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Matt Gaynor
- Business Manager: Jeff Foster
- Production Manager: Hilary Callahan
- Photography Editor: Rollin Riggs
- Associate Business Manager: Barbara Burrell
- Associate Editors: Geoff Hayward, Paul Hofheinz, Jim Lowe, Lelia Wardwell
- Associate Production Manager: Alex Savich
- Staff: Serena Collison, Jane Hinson, Walter Jacob, Tim Misner, Geoff Pope, W. Hampton Sides, Sloan Walker, Will Winkelstein


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Letters
- Comment: AASA and the Island of Conclusions - Anita Tien
- The noise behind the Walkman - W. Hampton Sides
- The fertility service - Martha Neil
- An interview with Wolfgang Leonhard - Jose Roberto Martinez
- Jobs vs. Academics at the Law School - Steve Epstein
- Cross Campus Library: ''the great beige continuum'' - Holly Lyman
- Cover story: The fuss over Frum - Gabriella Stern
- Sports: Crew's time of absurd contracts - Morris Panner
- Research: Why babies fail to thrive - Tom Feigelson
- Architecture: Venturi's firehouse - Robert Orr
- Books: Reinterpretation by remembrance - Kathleen Cleaver


**Title: The fuss over Frum**
**Author: Gabriella Stern**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: We Know Yale. Does Yale Know Us?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 2**

**About this Issue**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Looking back over our six cover stories, we think they represent in part what we're trying to do. We've tried to cover issues and people at Yale that affect the way we live and think. 

We started with David Chapell's piece on Yale research and the Defense Department. Then Andy Court profiled New Haven policeman Rick Randall. An interview with former Black Panther and Yale College junior Kathleen Cleaver followed, and in January, Hampton Sides analysed the rhetorical stalemate between President Giamatti and the Moral Majority. In February, our fifth issue highlighted Paul Hofheinz's analysis of the agreement between Yale's blue collar union and the administration. 

Our cover story this issue follows in this path. David Frum, conservative columnist for the Yale Daily News, is perhaps the most controversial undergraduate at Yale this year. We decided to cover Frum not because we necessarily agree with his views, but because we are interested in someone who claims to be representing "the 20 per cent (of Yalies) who voted for Reagan." Frum says he's challenging sloppy, unquestioning liberal outlooks here. Some of his critics, however, claim his thinking is just as sloppy as those he condemns. 

This issue, our sixth, is our last for the year. We'll be back next year with six more, but we'd like to take this opportunity to thank some of our people who are graduating. 

Two folks chiefly responsible for the way TNJ looks are our designer Matt Gaynor and our photography editor Rollin Riggs, both of whom have had work published recently in the New York Times. Neither is exactly sure of his post-graduation plans, but Riggs is working on a student's guide to spring break in Florida, which will be published by Arbor House in December. Gaynor suggested the possibility of "getting trashed- for about three years." 

Four fine writers and regular contributors are also graduating this year. Walter Jacob, who wrote on teaching evaluations, tenure, and career advisory, has the ability to identify important stories and then locate the most interesting angle to pursue. Holly Lyman demonstrates in this issue's story on Cross Campus Library what she showed in an earlier profile on George Schoolfield: the wonderful and rare ability to listen. Matt Hamel's incredible eye for detail came through in his piece on the floormen of Toad's, and his profile of Charles Black. Finally, Martha Neil took a creative and unusual approach to her article this issue on "The Fertility Service" at Yale-New Haven hospital. 

On the business side, Jeff Foster and Geoff Pope have both been with the magazine since the beginning. As Business Manager, Foster has been actively involved in formulating our advertising strategy and monitoring our finances. Pope has been one of our veteran advertising reps. 

We'd also like to mention one freshman who has begun brilliantly, Hilary Callahan. Hilary became our production manager last issue. She and her production staff put the magazine together without a hitch, and we hope they will continue the good work in the future. 

Look for us in September. 


**Letters-----**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

The political Union 
To the Editor: 
Jim Lowe is quite correct in claiming that the Political Union has an identity crisis, that it has an image of being elitist, and that the organization is on the decline. (TNJ, February 27, 1982) His reasons for drawing those conclusions are, however, incorrect. He claims that there have been weak programs, and that Yalies are politically apathetic and pre-professional. The problems of the Political Union run far deeper than any care to admit. 

Despite what the Political Union's Speaker Chris Bieda says, the program has not been feeble. During the fall term of 1981, 2 Cabinet officers, Betty Friedan, Edward Koch, Doug Fraser, Lyn Nofziger and Barry Commoner all spoke before the PU. The Union has continued its tradition of providing a strong speaker program. 

While political apathy has perhaps increased on campus, the PU boasted its largest memberships during the mid-1970s, after the Vietnam War and after Watergate. Apathy alone cannot explain the PU's decline. 

The concept of a "mass membership" PU is clearly not anachronistic (except, perhaps, for members of the Party of the Right.) We see, however, two problems which explain the Union's current situation. The first is the constant infighting among Political Union members seeking to attain office. The current election process inevitably leads to the proliferation of Machiavellian shenanigans. No sooner is one election over than the next one begins. Officers are interested in promoting the Union only insofar as it promotes their own political career. They use the Political Union for their own ends; political game playing is more important than political integrity. 

Political game-playing is the staple of the Party of the Right, and it is the POR which we see as a second obstacle to PU resurgence. Robert's Rules of Order, ideally, is to be used to facilitate the running of PU meetings. The POR, however, is determined to use Robert's to disrupt meetings. Bieda and Rubin are sadly misguided if they believe that such parliamentary perversions alienate "only a few people;" they alienate many. Besides, why should the PU continue to enforce rules that alienate anybody? 

One example of this parliamentary perversion is the "coat and tie" rule that the POR rammed through at a sparsely attended debate last year. That rule requires that members wear a coat and tie in order to speak at a Union meeting. The Union suspends the rule each term, though it remains on the books. A second perversion is the floor fight of last year, at which the POR attempted to manipulate the election rules to overwhelmingly favor its own members. Though the amendments were defeated, they are another example of how the POR uses the PU as its own personal tool. 

Finally, the image of the POR as a cadre of socially maladjusted children mars the Union's image as a whole. Each fall, hundreds of freshman are turned off by the POR's incestuous arrogance. The result is that the PU is considered to be the playground of the POR- in an important sense, it is. Through game playing and the appeasement of certain Union officers, the POR continues to have all too much influence on the affairs of the Union. 

Clearly, major reform is necessary in order to return the PU to its former glory. Equally clear, however is that the Party of the Right stands as an obstacle to any such reform. 
Charles Thompson 
Spring 1981 President 
Neal Wolin 
Fall 1981 President


The Long Wharf and the Yale Rep
Antonio Mercado's comparison of the Long Wharf Theatre and the Yale Repertory (TNJ, February 27, 1982) struck me as clever but inaccurate. Rather than indulge in town-gown stereotyping, one might more profitably distinguish between one theater and gadgetry. Such a distinction could lead to some discomfort and so- Mr. Mercado's disdain of comfort notwithstanding- the best policy may be to eschew comparison and simply to thank the Long Wharf for giving New Haven some excellent theater. 
Faye J. Crosby 
Assistant Professor


Anti-Semitism?
I was recently given a few issues of the New Journal, and was horrified to see the Walter Jacob cartoon used to illustrate Steve Epstein's fine article (•How Law School Limits One's View, January 30th.) 

Let's recap. We have a personal statement about Yale Law School written by a law student named Epstein. And we have an accompanying cartoon picturing a man with a gigantic nose walking in a building which looks quite a bit like Yale Law School. Could the man with the huge nose possibly be Epstein? 

Well, it's hardly an original idea. There is a long history of ugly, bigoted cartoons of Jews with big noses, just as there is a long history of anti-Semitism at Yale. As someone who spent many years there-both as an undergraduate and an instructor- I am well acquainted with the often subtle and occasionally blatant anti-Jewish feeling at Yale. The cartoon is just one more reminder. 

Whether or not Mr. Jacob was conscious of what he was doing- whether or not he is Jewish himself-whether or not staff members of the New journal examined and approved the cartoon-it is an insulting and offensive image that should not have appeared. 
-Bob Lamm 
Reply: we share your concern over the many subtle forms that anti-Semitism takes. In this case, however, we believe you are reading something into the cartoon which was not intended on any level by either the magazine or the artist. Walter Jacob says, "All my characters have big noses because I have a big nose. It makes no difference who I'm drawing. They all have big noses to me." 


**Fill All Of Us**
**United Way**
**Page number(s): 6**

The New Journal thanks: 
Sue Alcott 
Joy Bochner 
Andy Brimmer 
Edward L Burnes Associates 
C. C. Clermnt 
Nau Copple 
Robnt Fermann 
Steve Gavin 
Lisa Hintz 
Angelo Ippolito 
Miriam Lamthol 
Wait Little 
Greg Myre 
Wes Poling 
Frank Prot[ 
David Ttitelman 
John Wilknson 
Christzanna Williams

Correction: 
The photograph on page 8 of the last issue was taken by Bill Kummel


**AASA and the Island of Conclusions**
**Author: Anita Tien**

Freshman year. The first week. 
"There's an organization meeting for AASA this afternoon," my floating counselor urged, "You should go." 
So I did. About 60 Asians crowded into Trumbull's common room. We sat in a circle, fighting intrusive elbows and oppressive heat, and began introductions. I was first: "My name is Anita, and I'm from Syracuse, and I'm in JE." The next person was more talkative, adding that she hoped AASA would strengthen her Asian identity. The next student picked up on this theme and got things really rolling when he came up with, "All my life, people have called me 'Chink,' and I want to find out why." At this point, many heads nodded sympathetically. 

The leader of the meeting enthused, "That's why we're here! We want to help you understand yourselves. We want to promote cultural understanding and self-awareness; we want to bring about Asian unity." 

AASA's leaders may want to accomplish these goals, but the truth is that they haven't managed to do so. AASA's newsletter, East-West Currents, is sent out as a regular source of information on the efforts of the organization but many Asian-Americans I know do not even read the publication. Indeed, the social distance between AASA's leaders and AASA's less visible members is so great that communication between the two is extremely limited. AASA's leaders really have no way of knowing what Asians outside their circle think about AASA or minority issues. 

And this is where the more active members of AASA make their mistake: there is a tendency to assume that one can define the extent of one's ethnicity by his involvement in minority organizations such as AASA. It would seem that some in AASA have succumbed to this tendency. In his editorial in East-West Currents, Brian



**Title: Kanno accuses Asians outside of AASA of "ignoring the fact that they are Asians."**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Kanno accuses Asians outside of 
AASA of "ignoring the fact that they 
are Asians." He writes, "I 
think 
everyone should feel that they are . 
Asian-American and be proud of it." 
Participation in AASA has become an 
index of one's cultural awareness; those 
who are not active members risk ac-
cusations of having subordinated their 
Asian heritage to the pressures of a 
white world. The term "Banana" is 
bandied about: non-active members of 
AASA are only "yellow" on the outside; 
inside, they are "white." 

But a decision not to participate in 
AASA should not imply indifference or 
ignorance or shame. It isn't fair for 
Kanno to use such a decision as a 
meter of ethnicity; more important, it 
isn't accurate. Kanno declares he is 
"fed up with Asian-Americans check-
ing the box 'Asian' on their Yale ap-
plication and thereafter ignoring the 
fact that they are Asians." How can he 
know that they are ignoring this fact? 
What makes him so certain? I would 
suggest that he can~ be certain; simply 
looking at the rolls of active members 
of AASA is not a valid way to locate 
those who have a strong Asian identi-
ty. Many of us who choose not to par-
ticipate in AASA have an equally 
strong awareness of our heritage; we 
speak the languages of our parents and 
grandparents, we eat their food, we 
know their history. 

Many of Yale's Asian-Americans 
have become alienated from AASA. 
Consider the reaction of one of my 
Chinese friends when she received the 
latest AASA newsletter: "I hardly ever 
read that thing. They make such ab-
surd statements that I can't take them 
seriously." Other friends have voiced 
similar sentiments; they don't believe 
in AASA , its membership, its lan-
guage. And isn't this the supreme 
irony? An organization like AASA is, 
in its own words, supposed to promote 
cultural unity. Instead, it acts as a 
divisive, destructive 
force 
among 
Asians at Yale; lines have been drawn 
between active and non-active mem-
bers of AASA. 

Judgments by superficial consider-
ations, such as active membership in 
AASA, is a dangerous thing: it is 
precisely this reliance on externals 
which leads to fear and hatred and 
racism. Anyone who would make a 
determination by using such a flimsy 
standard is jumping to conclusions. 
And as Norton Juster once pointed out 
in The Phantom Tollbooth, escaping from 
the Island of Conclusions is a long and 
difficult endeavor. It would be best to 
resist the impulse to jump in the first 
place. 


Anita Tien, a junior in JE, will be travelling 
to Taiwan this summer to begin research 
on a family history. 

The opinions expressed in this section 
are those of the individual writers. The 
New Journal welcomes letters to the 
editor, and comment on Yale and New 
Haven issues. Write to 3432 Yale 
Station, New Haven, CT. 06520. All 
letters for publication must be signed 
and addressed. 


**Title: The noise behind the Walkman**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

. . . as the appreciation of modern physics 
requires more and more prior education, so 
the appreciation of modern art and music re-
quires a more educated-some would say a 
more thoroughly conditioned-aesthetic taste 
. . . Unless the artist and the recipient have 
had the same experience the communication is 
always less than faithful. 
Harvey Brooks 1964 
The Government of Science

The walkmen are all over campus 
today. I saw them walking around at 
the gym and in the library, across from 
Yale Station and down on York Street. 
They were walking briskly through the 
Art Gallery, toward the Law School, 
out of Commons, and onto the Green. 
I would like to know, who are these 
walkmen? Where are they headed? 
And why do they walk all the time? Do 
they like to walk, or is it something 
they are required to do? 

Of course I wouldn't bother asking a 
walkman these questions, because I 
know that a walkman generally doesn't 
like to talk to people. It's not that he is 
a shy or scary person; he just isn't big 
on conversation, that's all. He'd really 
rather keep his ideas to himself, and 
he'd appreciate it if others would kindly 
do the same. Besides, he's got a lot of 
ground to cover today, a lot of walking 
to do to meet the prescriptions of his 
well-worn appointment book. No time 
to talk. He likes his privacy, you know, 
and he absolutely abhors the sound of 
the human voice, particularly his own. 

In fact, he can't abide live noises at all, 
like the sound of turning pages, or a 
sneeze, or a cough, or a panhandler's 
pitch down by the Co-op. 

I've never met anyone so self-
assured as a walkman. He knows what 
he wants to hear and see and do with 
such an unshakable confidence that he 
must forbid the extraneous world from 
interfering with his well-laid plans. 
Life must be so smug and restful in 
that nomadic altered state of his. And, 
if a walkman ever talked, I wonder if 
anyone could understand him. Unless 
one listens to the same tapes, it must be 
a powerful drain on the system to try to 
make sense out of someone who has 
been walking around so long listening 
to a program so different from anyone 
else's. 

The walkman is no conformist, but 
an individualist, at heart. Each one has 
his own specialty, his own discipline, 
his own language- and his own des-
tination. 

The other day I saw a Yale student 
reading his physics textbook in a 
basement-level weenie booth in the 
Cross Campus Library. His walkman 
turned on, his body buried within its 
fluorescent closet two floors 
underground, he punched his pocket 
calculator and nodded quietly as his 
taped program rushed through his 
headphones. 

I stood for a while staring at him 
through the narrow slat of glass in the 
sliding door. It struck me how strange 
it all was- the price a person will pay 
for seclusion, the lengths he will go to 
avoid having to talk with someone else, 
the determination that will drive him 
to tune out his environment and turn 
on his private learning machine. This 
person, presumably, paid Yale 
thousands of dollars for a dose of the 
"liberal arts," and here he was locked 
away every night in a formica box tak-
ing in the subtleties of quantum theory 
-alone in his own, aural insular 
world. 

I wanted to ask him what he was 
listening to on the tape recorder, but I 
suppose that would be an invasion of 
the man's privacy, so of course I didn't. 
By now I have learned of the sacred 
and inviolate nature of a fellow's 
privacy, and I would never dream of 
disturbing anything of such impor-
tance and worth. Besides, I had my 
own studying to do. 

The emergence of the Sony walk-
man in the library and elsewhere sug-
gests that, more and more, education 
is becoming a private affair. No longer 
do people come to the university to 
hear and argue other people's ideas, to 
theorize and speculate with the person 
who speaks from the stump or writes in 
the paper. Instead, they close their ears 
from the commotion and retreat into 
their special compartments. 

The world is too complex for them. 
There are too many errant strands of 
too many different ideas parading 
noisily around, too many tangents 
which disrupt and confuse. Modern 
thought is too busy, too abstract, too 
monumental. The weight of this com-
plexity threatens them and drives them 
to train to be the expert, the specialist, 
the professional. All the incomprehen-
sible noise makes them insecure; they 
feel they must be masters of some-
thing. 

Their discomfort prods them to 
learn with good faith and sound pa-
tience all the ideas, the theories, and 
the parlance of a program; they prac-
tice the symbols and study them and 
discuss them with the few others who 
have chosen the same program. No 
one else understands these symbols, 
nor can they understand the symbols of 
the others in the next booth. 

It is happening all around us. Today 
the economist with his new theories, 
and the computer science technician 
with his newly-developed language, 
and the psychology major with his new 
approach, and the musicologist with his 
12-tone composition, all speak in dif-
ferent tongues and operate within dif-
ferent worlds. As each one rises along 
the scale of subtlety and expertise, he 
must find it increasingly difficult to 
communicate the ideas of his chosen 
field to those not in it, particularly as 
more and more advances are made in 
each discipline. And, conversely, he 
must find it equally difficult to ap-
preciate the ideas of the other spe-
cialists. Such is the sacrifice for exper-
tise in a world that so demands and 
values experts. 

I visualize a time in the future when 
all walkmen at Yale and other univer-
sities will climb into their booths each 
day and tune into their separate pro-
grams, each one in a 
specialized 
language, training themselves for their 
specialized place among the specialists 
who will run the country. The best and 
the brightest will flock to these schools 
to learn their trade, here where the 
banner of technological progress and 
civilization flies so proudly. For those 
unacquainted with the vast body of 
terms and theories that form the foun-
dation of each discipline on each pro-
gram, the walkman tape will play only 
noise: nonsensical, atonal, inaccessible 
noise. But for the trained ear, the same 
tape will play powerful and prestigious 
noise, guaranteed to make a profit. 

And for the sake of Progress, the 
thinkers and scientists and technocrats 
will walk around not listening to each 
other. 

W. Hampton Sides, a sophomore in Ezra 
Stiles, wrote the cover piece on the Moral 
Majority for the January issue of TNJ. 
9 
The New Journal I April 19, 1982



**Title: The fertility service**
**Author: Martha Neil**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The 
fertility 
service 
Martha Neil 
10 
I. 
February brought a brief taste of 
celebrity status 
to 
Dr. 
Alan 
DeCherney, Director of Reproductive 
Endocrinology at Yale-New Haven 
Hospital. In the space of a week, an ar-
ticle he'd written on French research 
findings that fertility in women ap-
parentJy decreases sharply after age 
30-not, as previously thought, age 35 
-was published in The New England 
Journal of Medicine, discussed on the 
front page of The New York Times, 
and got him an interview with Jane 
Pauley on the Today show. 
"I wasn't nervous one bit," Dr. 
DeCherney said. 

Infertility has become a hot media 
topic in recent months, following the 
birth of the first American test tube 
baby in January. Public attention has 
been focused, in particular, on the two 
relatively new and controversial 
methods by which human conception 
can be medically accomplished: ar-
tificial insemination and in vitro ("test 
tube") fertilization. 

For artificial insemination, sperm 
provided by either the woman's hus-
band or an anonymous donor is simply 
inserted by the doctor. Artifical in-
semination has been done at Yale-New 
Haven for more than 10 years, most 
commonly for married couples where 
the husband does not make enough 
sperm to impregnate his wife, or is the 
carrier of a genetic disease. 

"Cystic fiorosis is a good example," 
Dr. DeCherney said. "It's a recessive 
trait, so both the mother and the father 
have to have it to produce a baby with 
the disease. A couple has a baby with 
cystic fibrosis: therefore you know they 
both have that trait. So there's a 25 per 
cent chance that their next child will 
also have cystic fibrosis. Now, they can 
take a chance-or they can use a donor 
who has no history of cystic fibrosis in 
his family , and be sure the baby won't 
have it." 

In vitro fertilization is performed 
when the woman's Fallopian tubes are 
blocked because of damage or disease, 
preventing normal movement of an 
egg from an ovary to her uterus. She is 
given a fertility drug to induce a multi-
ple ovulation, 
and 
the eggs are 
surgically removed and fertilized in the 
lab with sperm provided by her hus-
band. All embryos that develop are 
then 
surgically 
implanted 
in her 
uterus. 

This is news to the media, but it is 
part of Dr. DeCherney's daily routine. 
Leaning back in his chair behind his 
desk, a bow tie at his collar and cigar in 
hand, he explained: 

"We've recovered eggs, and fertil-
ized eggs, and put them in uteruses 
here- but no pregnancies yet. We 
started doing it over the summer, and 
then we stopped. Why did we stop? I 
wanted to evaluate what we were do-
ing, and also we'd lost our operating 
room. They're building a new hospital 
wing, so I was temporarily out of 
facilities. I've just got my old room 
back: they were doing Caesarian sec-
tions in it. 

"Artificial insemination by donor is 
difficult because it's a very confidential 
thing," he said earlier. "I have to get 
the donor myself, make the appoint-
ments myself- it's time-consuming. 
I'm meticulous about confidentiality. I 
always write the same note on every 
chart and tell every patient the same 
thing- it's my only protection. 

"See, I don't want my records sub-
poenaed, .. he said. "Because, let's say 
10 years from now the husband wants 
to get divorced. He doesn't want to pay 
child support. Now I'm pulled into 
court: 'Is he the father of this child?' 
And I would say, 'Well, I don't really 
know. All I know is that on the ninth of 
December we discussed donor insem-


--- Page 11 ---

ination.' You might say, 'That's 
ridiculous- you're really setting 
yourself up by keeping poor records.' 
But the alternative is to leave my 
records complete and jeopardize the 
donor's anonymity. Then the kid can 
say, 'Oh, now I want the donor to pay.' 
A lot of doctors have patients sign con-
sent forms, and then destroy the con-
sent forms when the women conceive. 
Well, that's silly. But if you signed a 
consent form, that's evidence of what 
happened-so I don't have donor in-
semination patients sign. 

"Now there is one fault in not re-
cording the names of the donors," he 
went on. "If the baby's born with a 
genetic disease, I could never go back 
and tell the donor that he's a carrier. 
But that's rare, and problems with loss 
of anonymity are not rare. So donors 
understand that, and they accept that." 

Dr. DeCherney selects donors to 
match the husband's physical char-
acteristics: height, build, eye and hair 
color. The men are screened for 
genetic disease by history. Those who 
are Jewish have a Tay-Sachs test, and 
those who are Black have a sickle-cell 
test. ("They're the two things we can 
test for with facility.") Donors are paid 
$25 per contribution, and come from 
the ranks of residents, house staff, and 
medical students at Yale-New Haven. 
This is because of convenience, Dr. 
DeCherney emphasized: "It's done ear-
ly in the morning, so women can go to 
work, and these people are here then. 
We don't have a frozen spenn bank-
it's expensive to maintain, and the 
pregnancy rates are not as high. 

"We do use the sperm bank in New 
York City for special purposes," he ex-
plained. "A man who is going to have a 
vasectomy, or a man who is going to be 
treated for cancer of the testicle will put 
his spenn in a bank first. Or, if some-
one came to me and said they wanted 
an Annenian" donor with blond hair 
"We're just putting an egg 
and a sperm together that 
hopefully would have gotten 
together anyway." 
Dr. Al4n DeChtmty examines a glucose experiment. 
and green fingernails, I would call up 
and ask, 'Do you have somebody?" 

Although the use of donor eggs and 
sperm for 
in 
uitro 
fertiliza-
tion- theoretically possible- could 
raise similar issues to those of artificial 
insemination by donor, Dr. DeCher-
ney insisted it won't be done in the 
foreseeable future at Yale-New Haven 
Hospital. He also emphasized that 
Yale-New Haven does not discard em-
bryos in the lab. (Because considered 
tantamount to abortion, this has been 
a major reason for objections to the 
practice of in uitro fertilization.) Asked 
what he would do in the individual 
case of a defective embryo, Dr. 
DeCherney answered that it's never 
happened. 

*I don't know how I would handle 
that," he said. "I guess I would leave it 
up to the parents. I would say, 'This 
does not look like a perfect embryo-
we would prefer not to implant it- but· 
we will do what you want."' 

Does he have any qualms about per-
forming in vitro fertilizations? 
"~o. not at all," Dr-
DeCherney 
said. "Because we do it as a service, we 
don't do it as a research tool. We're not 
doing any research in that field . So I'm 
not worried- it's just a service, it's 
something I can offer my patients that 
other doctors offer. 

"We're just putting an egg and a 
sperm together that hopefully would 
have gotten together anyway. This is 
the husband's sperm and the wife's egg, 
so ethically there is really very little 
concern over this exact procedure. 
What the ethicists are concerned about 
is that this is the first step into a long 
line of genetic engineering- maybe 
like they did in Braue New World-add-
ing testosterone to make overly ag-
gressive people, for instance. It's not 
feasible right now; but if people began 
to experiment with it, it would take ofT. 
Nobody's done it so far, because it's not 
ethical. But it's not an unreasonable 
concern." 

Clearly, one of Dr. DeCherney's 
main concerns is that services not be 
unreasonably withheld from patients. 

"I don't want to impose my ethical 
values on other people," he said. "All I 
do is give information, and let people 
make their own decisions. 
The New Journal/ April 19, 1982 
11 


--- Page 12 ---

12 
Rolin Riggs 'The New JourNI 
Angela Holder advises doctors on the legal aspects of in vitro fertilization. 
"' did make a conscious decision to 
do d onor insemination 
in single 
women- that's not standard medical 
practice. And I do very, very few abor-
tions: only if it's my own patient, and 
she has a valid reason- which is usual-
ly medical. Now abortions are not a 
problem, because there are plenty of 
doctors who do them. But if I were to 
decide not to do donor insemination or 
not to do in vitro fertilization, I'd be 
closing the door to people. Being at 
Yale University, for some people we're 
the court of last resort." 

And, clearly, Dr. DeCherney feels 
these services are worthwhile. "If I was 
infertile, and the choices were donor 
insemination and adoption, I personal-
ly would pick donor insemination," he 
stated. "Even if there wasn't a long wait 
for an adopted child. To me, it's a bet-
ter solution than adoption because the 
woman goes through pregnancy. No-
body knows about it at home. My own 
feelings are that I wouldn't tell the 
child, or my neighbors, or my mother. 
And in my experience by the time the 
baby's born, most of the husbands have 
kind of forgotten it's a donor child. 
They go through the pregnancy; and 
it's not uncommon for these people to 
come back to my office with the baby, 
and everyone says, 'Oh, he looks just 
like his father.' It's happened so many 
times." 

II. 
To Angela Holder, 
Counsel for 
Medical-Legal Affairs at Yale Medical 
School and Yale-New Haven Hospital, 
artificial insemination and in vitro fer-
tilization are subjects on which her per-
sonal and professional opinions con-
flict. 

"I have serious personal questions 
about bringing a child into the world to 
be raised by one parent," she said in 
a South Carolina accent. "I mean, I'm 
divorced and I've got a kid- he was a 
toddler when his father and I were 
divorced- but I didn't intnad that he be 
brought up by a single parent. And it's 
really quite difficult- not just finan-
cially. It's a hard row to hoe. 

"That has nothing to do with what 
we do here," she continued. "My job 
here is whether or not something is 
legal. Now, when I am asked my legal 
opinion, I give it-but I don't hesitate 
to say also that personally I think it's a 
bad idea. I have talked to Alan 
DeChemey about doing a.i.d . for 
single women, and he disagrees with 
me. And I wouldn't say you slwuldn't do 
it. It's like my opinion on abortion. I've 
spent 25 years in one place after 
another giving out advice about abor-
tion rights, and I seriously doubt tJlat I 
would ever have one myself. But I'm 
beside myself when anyone tries to 
make decisions about someone else's 
body. I mean, my personal opinion is 
irrelevant." 

Legally, the problems posed by ar-
tificial insemination and in vitro fer-
tilization are by no means identical, 
Mrs. Holder emphasized. 

In vitro fertilization is a far more 
complex procedure medically; 
but 
because the two parents involved are 
married to each other, it presents 
essentially only one legal issue. If the 
manipulation of the embryo in the jar 
were to damage it in a way that 



**Title: Artificial Insemination and In Vitro Fertilization: Legal and Ethical Considerations**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
couldn't be detected during the preg-
nancy by amniocentesis (laboratory 
analysis of a sample of amniotic fluid 
from 
the uterus, extracted by a 
hypodermic needle, usually in the 16th 
week), then, when a child was born 
with a severe defect, the doctor might 
be liable. 

"Not to the parents, who presumably 
have signed consent forms," Mrs. 
Holder said. "But to the child-the 
child can sue, because nobody con-
sulted him. He might say that his 
parents had no authority to subject 
him to that kind of a risk. 

"But this is all very speculative," she 
added. "It's never happened. I mean, if 
I thought in vitro fertilization was a big 
risk, we wouldn't be doing it. When it 
was proposed, I had grave reservations 
on exactly this point- and I made it 
my business to talk to doctors both 
here and elsewhere that I thought knew 
something on the subject. They satis-
fied my concern. My concern is 
theoretical, and the medical judgments 
are that it won't occur." 

Artifical insemination is medically a 
much simpler procedure than in vitro 
fertilization. Legally, however, it is 
much more complex-when a sperm 
donor is used. 

"It's as safe as gening pregnant in the 
usual fashion," Mrs. Holder stated. 
"The only thing that can happen is that 
it doesn't work. That's why there are 
no malpractice suits. I have never 
heard of any kind of malpractice suit 
involving a.i.d. Ever. Anywhere." 

But someday, Mrs. Holder said, 
someone with a genetic-related disease 
is going to donate sperm to one of the 
commercial donor banks in big cities 
like New York. 

"You come in otT the Bowery to 
donate, and they ask you if you've got 
diabetes. If you say 'Yes' you don't get 
paid money. So you say 'No.' It's exact-
ly what happens in commercial blood 
banks-every now and then somebody 
gets hepatitis because they didn't check 
very carefully about the donors. The 
kid is born with a genetic disease that 
could have been prevented, and some-
body's going to sue the doctor that got 
the semen for malpractice. Why it 
hasn't happened already I don't know, 
because I'm sure the situation has 
arisen." 

There is one area 
m 
which 
a.i.d.-related 
lawsuits are being 
brought: 

"When the couple gets divorced ten 
years later, the issue of child support 
comes up," Mrs. Holder explained. 
"And he says, 'I'm not going to support 
it, because it's not mine.' Now, courts 
basically make him do it; but what's 
happened is that states have passed 
statutes requiring husbands to consent 
in writing. I labored over our consent 
forms- and that's not to protect us 
from a malpractice suit. That's to pro-
tect this kid, if his daddy decides to 
take a walk ten years on." 

III. 

Maureen Pendergast wants children. 
"It's an obsession," she said. "I have 
a hard time looking at babies- I just 
want to grab the kid and run. I really 
do. I'd take one that fell from the sky at 
midnight- I'm really not fussy. If my 
husband and I are walking somewhere 
and I see somebody go by who's preg-
nant, I'll say, 'Oh, doesn't she look nice. 
What a nice outfit. I wonder how preg-
nant she is?' I'm like that." 

Mrs. Pendergast (a pseudonym) is 
in her early 30s. She is a special educa-
tion teacher at a New Haven area 
public school. For the past two and a 
half years she and her husband have 
organized their lives around basal 
temperature charts and twice-monthly 
artificial inseminations at 
Dr. 
DeChemey's office. One time, she 
stole away 
from their home on 
"My husband felt that If It 
couldn't be our own child, 
then It shouldn't be one of 
ours." 
Christmas morning and down to Yale-
New Haven Hospital and back without 
being detected by their guests. 

"I couldn't believe DeCherney would 
go into his office on Christmas," Mrs. 
Pendergast said. "He's just outstanding 
-his expertise, his personality, his 
manner. I'm grateful I live in the New 
Haven area." 

At present, the Pendergasts are still 
trying with artificial insemination, and 
Mrs. 
Pendergast 
is 
on 
DeCherney's waiting list for in vitro fer-
tilization. She also hopes to adopt. The 
one thing Mrs. Pendergast is not going 
to try, although it would be perhaps 
her best chance of having children, is 
artificial insemination by donor. 

"My husband felt that if it couldn't 
be our own child, then it shouldn't be 
one of ours," she explained. "He wasn't 
quite sure how he'd feel about a child 
that was mine, in that sense, and not 
his. I have to respect that- I think it's 
tougher on a man to have an infertility 
problem. It's not the sort of thing you 
announce at a cocktail party. Women 
will talk about it amongst themselves-
no sweat- but I don't think men can 
ever quite open a conversation about 
how they're having infertility prob-
lems. 

"Under Catholic Church law-and I 
know this because somebody had the 
gall to tell me-l could divorce my 
husband, get an annulment because he 
is technically incapable of giving me 
kids without all this extraordinary 
medical intervention. 
And I 
find 
that .. . 

'"I mean, it's something you think 
about. I could marry somebody else, 
and I could have children, because I'm 
capable of having children. It makes 
for great fantasy stuff- you know, 
down moments- but I wouldn't do it. 
Yet the same Church that would never 
give me an argument about dumping 
the man I have professed to love with 
The r-.:ew Journal I April 19, 1982 
13 


"But I'm beside myself when 
anyone tries to make decl· 
slons about someone else's 
body." 

A maJure ovarian follicle with human egg. 


all my heart for nine years would have 
the gall to look me askance for doing 
some 'unnatural' thing in order to have 
a child." 

Mrs. Pendergast definitely wants to 
raise her child as a Catholic, although 
she doesn't consider herself very 
religious. 

"I wouldn't really feel bad in a 
religious 
sense, 
ethical 
if 
DeCherney fertilized an egg from my 
body and decided it wasn't viable and 
chose not to implant it," she said. "At 
that point, you're eliminating some-
thing that's more potential than actual. 
I wouldn't feel I'd participated in a 
crime. so· I don't hold with that argu-
ment against in vitro fertilization." 

Asked about amniocentesis, Mrs. 
Pendergast answered, "That's 
something I just block out. I don't 
know if I'd even want to have the test. I 
don't know what my husband's feelings 
would be-that something we haven't 
discussed. But I just couldn't abort a 
baby- that's something I would fight 
for. I would defend that one to the hilt. 

"As a special ed teacher, at least I'd 
have some background," she went on. 
"I wouldn't look to adopt an excep-
tional kid; but if I had one of my own 
I'd think, 'Maybe there's a purpose to 
my receiving this child.'" 

Mr. Pendergast's infertility is a com-
plication of his diabetes. Although his 
sperm count is normal, a retrograde 
ejaculation problem tends to weaken 
them. Both artificial insemination and 
in vitro fertilization, by reducing the 
distance the sperm must travel, can in-
crease the Pendergasts' chances for 
conception. 

Since, as a diabetic, Mr. Pendergast 
may eventually have health deteriora-
tion 
(such as cardiovascular and 
kidney problems, common complica-
tions of diabetes), it is possible that the 
Pendergasts will be denied an adoptive 
child. Since diabetes is thought to 
be hereditary, it is possible that a child 
conceived by the Pendergasts through 
artificial insemination or in vitro fer-
tilization might develop diabetes in 
childhood, or as an adult. And, since 
the Pendergasts were informed of this 
risk by Dr. DeCherney, the decision to 
go ahead with artificial insemination 
and in vitro fertilization is medically 
and legally considered theirs to make. 

"In some sense, I think we're playing 
wtth the natural laws of selection," 
Mrs. Pendergast said. "There are no 
two ways about it. But, on the other 
hand, it's almost like asking my hus-
band, 'If you had a choice between be-
ing a diabetic and not being here, 
which would you choose?' As diseases 
go, diabetes is no picnic: there are many 
serious complications. But I have 
hopes for the future- for my husband, 


for a diabetic child that I'd have. I 
guess if I were to have six natural kids, 
I'd be pushing my luck. But who's to 
say? 

"Maybe there's an element of 
selfishness, too: that I want a child 
badly enough to take a chance that the 
child might be diabetic. I'd have a 
tough time living with that question, 
Was I too selfish?' 

"I wonder what DeChemey thinks 
about that," she said. "I mean, in some 
instances he's playing with the laws of 
natural selection. In our case, there's a 
disease that could be passed along. 
Now, it's not like a 90 per cent chance 
-I don't think anybody really knows 
what the probability is- but, still, he's 
a medical doctor, and he's possibly 
bringing a person who's unhealthy into 
the world. We didn't really ask a whole 
bunch of questions. I wonder what he 
does think?" 


**Title: An interview with Wolfgang Leonhard**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
16 
An 
interview 
with 
Aollon Rogi)SfThe New Journal 
Wolfgang 
Leonhard 
Jose Martinez 
Wolfgang Leonhard teaches the largest class 
in the history of Yale. This year, the registrar 
had to reprogram the University's compwer 
to accommodate the 771 students enrolled in 
History of the Soviet Union. Leonhard's 
other classes, including the History of the 
International Communist Movement 
and several graduate seminars on Euro-Com-
munism and Soviet Foreign Policy, are also 
well-attended. 

But Leonhard is also in demand owside of 
Yale. Through a special arrangement with 
the University, he spends seven months a year 
in West Germany where he is a well-known 
commentator on the Soviet Union. He offers 
advice to firms and .trade unions, and often 
appears on television and in 'major West 
German newspapers and magazines. He also 
advises the West German Foreign Ministry 
and the political parties represented in the 
Bundestag on internal developments in the 
Soviet 
Union. 

His best-selling auto-
biography, Child of the Revolution, has 
been made into a movie which is often shown 
in West German high schools and univer-
sities. 

The child of two prominent left-wing in-
tellectuals, Leonhard was born in Vienna in 
1921. He lived in Germany with his mother 
until 1933. When the Nazis took power, 
they fled to Sweden and later to the Soviet 
Union where he continued his education. 
Leonhard am·ved in Russia on the eve of 
the Great Purge. One day, his mother jailed 
to meet him for an appointment. A note ar-
rived in the mail days later, telling him that 
she had been imprisoned. With the outbreak 
of the second World War in 1940, his father 
was put in a concentration camp in France. 
Leonhard worked for a Moscow radio sta-
tion during the war, making broadcasts in 
German to strengthen the anti-Nazi forces. 
He also attended the Commintern school for 
foreign Communists where he learned many 
special skills. Later, he would use this train-
ing to escape East Germany. 

When the Germans capitulated in 1945, 
Leonhard was one of the first representatives 
of the Communist Party to set foot in Berlin. 


---

17 
At age 24, he and several others known as the 
"Ulbricht Group• (after their le4der Walter 
Ulbricht) were given the task of setting up a 
government in Berlin. Once this task was ac-
complished, Leonhard became a kcturer at the 
High Party School "Karl Marx."' 

When the Yugosk:wwn Communists brok 
with Moscow in 1!148, 
Leonhard had 
already begun to have doubts about the Soviet 
system. In 1949, he kft East Germany. But 
he didn't go to the west. Instead, he went to 
Yugoskww, which was taking its own path 
to communism. The <kfection of a high party 
ojfidal received much attention. 

After migrating to West Germany, Leon-
hard became a graduate student at Oxford, 
where he wrote and researched The Kremlin 
since Stalin. In 1964, he gcwe his first kcture 
at Yale. Since 1966, he has been teaching at 
Yale each spring, and doing research, writing 
boolcs, and speaking in West Germany during 
the rest of the year. His books have been trans-
lated into nine languages. 
The New Journal: How did your own 
education contrast with that of the stu-
dents you now teach at Yale? 
Wolfgang Leonhard: Quite substan-
tially. I first studied at the Moscow 
State Pedagogical Institute of Foreign 
Languages in the English department 
in 1940-41 , i.e., under Stalin. The 
study plan was given to us up to the 
last minute. In all our main subjects 
including English literature, American 
literature, English history, U.S. his-
tory, and of course language, every-
thing was strictly along the party line; 
for all important English and Ameri-
can authors there was one standard 
evaluation sentence given to us which 
we had to learn by heart. Beginning 
from Chaucer's Canterbury Tales up to 
Jack London. 

TNJ: What evaluation did The Canter-
bury Tales get? 
WL: Chaucer was very much praised. 
H e was as much a "realist" as you 
could be in his time, and "realism" is 
as a whole seen as positive. 

TNJ: What was it like to have to flee 
your native Germany at age 12 when 
Hitler came to power and then to see 
your mother arrested by the Stalin 
secret police and your father being 
placed in a concentration camp in 
France? 
WL: I grew up in a time when a fate 
like mine was not an exception but sad-
ly enough rather widespread. Both my 
parents were left-wing inteUectuals and 
the brown shirts of the Nazi storm 
troopers were for me already a horrible 
sign when I was 10 years of age. When 
Hitler came to power in 1933, m y 
mother took me out of school. I didn't 
go to a Nazi school a single day in m y 
life. Five months later she arranged for 
me to leave Germany and go to 
Sweden. My father was in the mean-
time in emigration in France. My 
mother worked 
still 
clandestinely 
against Nazis until early 1935 then 
came to Stockholm where we met. 
From there in June 1935 we came to 
the Soviet Union. 
To what degree all of this has influ-
enced me I can't judge myself very 
much except of course that I became 
very much politically interested. Poli-
tics was not something far away and 
remote but a direct part of my life, an 
explanation for the threats I had to 
fear. 

\\ben my mother and I went to the 
Soviet Union I was at the beginning 
full of hopes. full of happiness that the 
terror of the Nazis were then over for-
ever. In September, 1935, I continued 
m y school education in the Soviet 
Union in a school in Moscow. It didn't 
take me long to realize that there was 
pressure there, too, maybe a different 
kind but obviously and clearly in exis-
tence. 

One year later the Great Purge 
began, the period where seven million 
people were arrested in two years; 
most of m y school mates had an ar-
rested mother or arrested father or 
m aybe even both parents were ar-
rested. My mother was arrested at the 
end of September, 1936, and I had to 
live now not only completely alone 
without a family but also in a situation 
where I realized, being at that time 14 
and 15 years of age, any wrong sen-
tence could mean a deprivation of my 
freedom and/or my life. 

The tremendous self-discipline not 
only in deeds but also in words and be-
havior became a second nature in m y 
life and was bound to stay for the next 
10, 12 years as long as I was in Com-
munist-ruled countries of the Stalin 
era. 

TNJ: How did these experiences influ-
ence your thinking? 
WL: How deep this impact goes is for 
the person in question very difficult to 
answer. The only thing that you can 
answer yourself is that the person who 
went through such dictatorial years 
with personal sacrifices knows and 
cherishes freedom of thought, of read-
ing, of discussion, much more than 
people who grew up in a society where 
all these things are taken for granted. 

TNJ: How did you and your comrades 
react to events like the Great Purge? 
Don't you tell stories about them in 
your class? 
WL: The people I mentioned (in m y 
class) were during the Great Purge and 
the famous show trials which I witness-



18 
Politics was not something 
far away and remote but a 
direct part of my life. 
ed in the Soviet Union. With my 
friends we discussed these trials, and 
while we were then by no means oppo-
sitionalists of any kind, we didn't 
believe in thP. trials. We didn't believe 
that Bukharin (a top Party official 
purged by Stalin) wanted to assassinate 
Lenin or was an agent of foreign coun-
tries. So the discussions were not if you 
believe in it or not-we didn't-but 
why it was "necessary" to have it. 

TN.J: How did you react to that? 
WL: We tried to give better explana-
tions of why the Purges were neces-
sary. All of us knew that these people 
were revolutionaries who were not 
guilty but we tried to reconcile this 
with our belief systems and say why 
was it necessary to make it. Our 
understanding was, well, it's a difficult 
political problem, and you have to put 
it in those categories to make it under-
standable. 

T NJ : Was the fact that your mother 
was in one of the concentration ca.'Tlps 
of the Gulag for 10 years one t)f the 
reasons why you started to doubt 
Communism? 
WL: I don 't think that the arrest of my 
. mother during the Great Purge led me 
immediately to doubt Stalin's Com-
munism. At that time I was already so 
much indoctrinated that I refused to take 
individual cases as this was called in 
our belief system of that time a "start-
ing point to general conclusions." But 
on the whole, I think that the mass ar-
rests, the mass purges of the middle 
30s were the starting point of rethink-
ing certain aspects of Soviet develop-
ments. 

T NJ : How did Hitler's aggression 
against the Soviet Union and the 
Soviet war against the Nazis affect 
your own viewpoints? 
• WL: During the war years I was most 
likely more pro-Soviet than ever before 
in my whole life. The terrible danger 
of Nazi conquest was so great that 
everything else seemed not to matter 
any more. Besides the just struggle 
against Nazism the war years for me 
was combined with a great hope of an 
increasing collaboration of the Soviet 
Union with Britain, the United States 
and the other allied powers, and like 
many Soviet citizens at that time, I had 
the hope that gradually the victory 
over Na.zism, the victory of democracy 
all over the world would also imply a 
gradual liberalization in the Soviet 

T NJ : When you were 24 you came to 
Berlin with the "Ulbricht Group." 
Can you tell us what was it to have 
almost absolute power in a part of 
Europe where there was complete des-
truction, and in which the power of the 
Red Army was evidently absolute? 
WL: There were 10 of us, I was the 
youngest. We were not told the details 
of what we were going to do. The only 
thing we were told was that we were 
going on a special mission returning as 
the first German Communists to 
Berlin. 

We arrived in Berlin on the 2nd of 
May 1945, the same day when the last 
German troops capitulated in the city. 
From May to September 1945 was 
most clearly the most dramatic, inter-
esting and exciting period of my life. 
We were to build up and set into mo-
tion new local and city self-govern-
ments, install mayors, directors of fac-
tories, of enterprises, gradually rebuild 
the Communist Party of East Germany. 
I was at that time still so much influ-
enced by ideology that I thought we 
could do everything and decide on 
everything. I had no psychological 
scruples whatsoever. Today, looking 
back, I almost sweat remembering the 
kind of decisions I so easily took in 
... 



**An Interview with Wolfgang Leonhard**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
, 
Wolfgang Leonhard 
Berlin-dozens each day. It was a hap-
py time because I really believed that 
everything the Soviets did was on the 
long run good for a new Democratic 
Germany. 
TNJ: Did you feel any pressure from 
Stalin or Ulbricht? 
WL: At that time, due to our know-
ledge that Berlin would be an inter-
allied city run by the Soviets, Ameri-
cans, British, French, our directives 
were not yet so _harsh as later. 
The task was to set up both the city 
government of Berlin and the district 
in such a way that the Western Allies, 
which would most likely come in June, 
1945, would have nothing to complain 
about, and would immediately legalize 
the authorities we set up. 
TNJ: Those were the orders you 
received? 
WL: Yes. There was once a strange 
situation when Ulbricht once said all 
our district authorities must look 
democratic, but we have to have all 
important positions in our hands. 
Communists usually had the second 
man of a city or of a district which was 
responsible for personnel and the chief-
of-police. So, numerically the Com-
munists were in a minority, but they 
had the most important positions in 
their hands. 
TNJ: Did you ever meet Joseph 
Stalin? 
WL: I never met Stalin, but I saw him 
from afar at the demonstrations on the 
first of May and on the 7th of Novem-
ber (anniversary of the October 1917 
revolution) in which we all participated. 
Aolton Atggs rThe New Journal 
Of high-ranking Soviet leaders, I 
had only the opportunity of meeting 
two. One, in summer 1945 when I was 
the private secretary of Ulbricht, I met 
twice for longer conversations Marshal 
Zhukov (a Wartime hero). And the 
second leader I met was in September, 
1947. At the second congress of the 
Socialist Unity Party in East Berlin the 
official representative of the Soviet 
Communist Party was Mikhail Suslov, 
who already at that time played a great 
role. 
TNJ: What was your impression of 
Suslov? 
WL: I had the same impressions of 
most other people. He was a person of 
ice-cold, absolute clarity in his diction 
and his speech very ideological, very 
cold. He almost never smiled or laugh-
ed. He was a top ideologist at that 
time. 
TNJ: Are all Soviet leaders like that? 
WL: He is a typical chief ideologist of 
the Soviet Communist system. both 
under Stalm and after Stalin, and in 
meetin!l him you feel his role. 
TNJ: Your escape from Stalinism was 
made in 1949 to Yugoslavia. Was the 
position takl·.1 by Yugoslavia against 
Stalin of such importance to you that it 
merited a life-threatening escape? 
WL: Yes, the stand taken by the 
Yugoslav 
Communist:. under the 
leadership of Tito in 1948 a~ainst 
Stalin was exact!}: the decisive event 
that changed my life. 

Already a few weeks after the Yugo-
slav break with I\.1oscow, I received 
Yugoslav materials which were clan-
destinely spread in East Germany like 
in all countries of the Soviet bloc which 
I read like an eye opener, and of 
course, had to hide because not even 
we as party officials were allowed to 
have any page written and published 
by Yugoslav Communists. 
From summer 1948 to March 1949 I 
really had to live a doubie life officially 
being still a lecturer at the High Party 
School "Karl Marx" and in reality h<:-
ing an active oppositional of the Titoist 
line. When my sympathies for the 
Yugoslav Communists through an in-
discretion became known , I had to 
escape on March 12, 1949 and it was 
as you mentioned an escape of life-
danger, until 13 days later I reached 
Belgrade. I thought at that time that I 
had made the right step and have never 
regretted my escape from East Ger-
many to Yugoslavia ever since. 
TNJ: Many persons have wondered 
why didn't you go straight into the 
Western zones of Germany? I mean 
what was there in Yugoslavia which 
was so important that it merited your 
escape to Yugoslavia instead of going 
to the West? 
WL: This is of course the major theme 
of my autobiographical story, "Child 
ofthe Revolution." In 1948-49 I still 
considered myself to be a critical Com-
munist implying I believed in the 
teachings of Marx, Engels, and Lenin. 
I was also very critical about the imple· 
mentation of these teachings by Stalin 
in the Soviet Union and Ulbricht in 
East Germany, and I was longing for a 
country where I hoped the ideas of 
Marx, Engels, Lenin on the socialist 
society would be correctly imple-
mented without the horrors of Stalin-
ism and the Ulbricht system in East 
Germany. Therefore, Yugoslavia for 
me was a revolutionary country, a 
:.ocialist country led b)' a Communi'lt 
Party separating itself from Stalin and


The New Journal I April 19, 1982 
19


**Page number(s): 20-21**

'20 
Most of my schoolmates had 
an arrested mother or an ar-
rested father or both. 
openly attacking Stalinism was exactly 
the fulfillment of the ideals I had at 
that time. 
TNJ: Your first years in the West must 
have been if not difficult, a rather 
novel experience. 
WL: Yes, it was a very novel exper-
ience and 1'11 never forget the Novem-
ber day of 1950 when I arrived in West 
Germany seeing for the first time 
modern traffic, well-stocked houses, 
and completely complacent primarily 
non-political people. Every day in the 
Western world was for me almost an 
incredible adventure because many 
things taken for granted by people 
growing up in the West were for me 
completely an incredible novelty. For 
instance, a few days after arriving in 
the West I was going with a good 
friend in the car when suddenly in the 
city was general traffic control. The car 
where I was, was stopped by a police-
man. I was shivering and pale expect-
ing of course that the policeman would 
now immediately ask me for all the 
documents I have and interrogate me 
about all my political activities in my 
life and about my political views. I still 
remember the incredible shock when I 
found out that this policeman was only 
asking stupid questions about if the 
lights were in order, if the tires were ok 
and asked to check the wipers. I was 
waiting for the real thing-the political 
questions. But they never came. The 
policeman went away and just left the 
car driving onwards. I had never seen 
a policeman not interested in political 
questions but only in simple idiotic 
traffic and motorcar problems. Similar 
adventures now came almost every 
week and they led to a gradual change 
about some of my preconceived views 
on Western democracies. 
TNJ: As someone who teaches at Yale, 
do you think it's possible for people 
who are sheltered from history to still 
be politically aware? 
WL: It is possible, bUl it takes, of 
Wolfgang Leonhard ltctures to the largest class at Yale. 
course, intellectual work to put your-
self in a system which is very different 
from your own. It is a difficult thing 
because most people are always judg-
ing everything from their own exper-
ience. For me, one of the most impor-
tant characteristics of intellectual 
thinking is the capability of thinking 
yourself into a completely different cul-
ture, a completely different economic 
and political system and with intellec-
tual activity trying to understand it. I 
think the majority of Yale students are 
capable of doing so. 
For me, for instance in the 60s, I 
had the opportunity of being six times 
in Africa and six times in Asia, and 
many things I didn't understand be-
fore I began to rethink. 
TNJ: Where do you stand politically 
today in the European context? 
WL: I am not a member of any politi-
cal party in Europe. Despite my per-
sonal involvement in the Communist 
movement in my youth and many ex-
periences including tragic experiences 
in my own life and the life of my family 
under Stalin, I am trying very serious-
ly in all my work and analysis never to 
act emotionally and always extremely 
rationally. I hope it's not necessary 
therefore to state that I am neither a 
Communist any more nor am I a hard 
line anti-Communist. In fact, I am 
equally far away from both of these ex-
tremes. 
TNJ: Have you ever wanted to settle 
down and teach on a full-time basis 
either at Yale or in Germany? 
WL: No. I am perfectly happy with 
the arrangement made with Yale as a 
Professor (Adjunct). I am a European 
who very much likes to be in the 
United States and spend half of the 
year in an American academic en-
vironment but I have never tried to 
become an American or to pretend to 
be an American. 
TNJ: Some students fear you present a 


**Page number(s): 21**

J 
negative view of the Soviet Union 
which most students accept unques-
tionably. What do you think about 
this? 
WL: I don't think that the views that I 
give in the lecture course are too nega-
tive. After having lived fourteen years 
in Communist-ruled countries (and ten 
of those fourteen years in the Soviet 
Union under Stalin) it was and is my 
aim both in my writings as well as in 
my lecture courses to be as objective as 
it is humanly possible. If there is one 
aim in my life in the University, it is 
not to repeat my own experiences but 
give the possibility of pluralism of a 
choice of interpretations. 
TNJ: For many of the students in your 
class this may be the only time they will 
ever study the Soviet Union. How will 
you hope to influence their percep-
tions? 
WL: I hope to overcome any kind of 
one-sidedness-primitive anti-Com-
munism as well as any illusions about 
the nature of the dictatorial system in 
the Soviet Union. My hope would be 
that students after taking the lecture 
course will have a deeper understand-
ing of different periods in Soviet 
history, and understand the differences 
between the rulers and the ruled, the 
leaders and the population, the Rus-
sians and the non-Russian nationali-
ties, the ruling strata which live a priv-
ileged life and the workers. To sum up, 
they will have a more differentiated 
view of Soviet society. And most of all, 
never confuse the regime with the 
population. 
• 
Josi Ro!Hrto Marlma, 
a second year 
Political Scitnce Graduate studmt, took the 
History of the Soviet Union whtn he 
was an undtrgradiUlh at Yale m 1973. 
new 
this fall-


**Title: Jobs vs. Academics at the Law School**
**Author: Steven Epstein**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Most of my semester was devoted to job interviews," said George Frankel, a second-year law student at Yale, "and it was far too much." 

For second and third-year Yale law students, the fall search for summer and full-time jobs with law firms can take up as much time as classes; often it is of greater interest. It's a long, tiring process, stretching from September to December, with weeks of interviewing out of town. 

Next year, the law school faculty will try to limit the interview season to two weeks of the fall . But few students are enthusiastic about the idea. 

Last year 600 law firms applied to send lawyers on-campus to recruit the 350 second and third-year Yale law students, but the law school had space for only 400 over the four months of interviewing. The jobs pay well, up to $900 per week in New York and Los Angeles. And the firms pay students' travel, meal, and hotel expenses for second interviews, called "call-backs" or "fly-outs." 

"Everyone gets a job," said law school Dean Harry Wellington. "I mean, everyone gets a job. That's just the way it is." 

The long interviewing season was an annoyance to most law students. Yale law students averaged twenty on-campus interviews each last fall, according to Associate Dean James Zirkle. And many students interviewed for jobs in more than one city, taking as much as two weeks off from school to travel to call-back interviews. 

But the psychological strain of the interview season grated harsher on law students' lives. Waiting to hear whether firms would grant second interviews, and then waiting for a job offer, could be painfully tense times, especially for the student who received multiple rejection letters before ever getting a positive response. And at school, students were constantly reminded of their job search by the stream of peers in conservative business garb. 

"When anyone sits down in the dining hall in a three-piece suit, the focus immediately turns toward interviewing, and it's hard to avoid the conversation," said Frankel. 

"It's most oppressive in the bathroom, where you see the kids changing. It's so much a show," said third-year student Laura Potter. 

Still, most students saw the interview season as the best solution. Students have a lot at stake, both money and careers, and the extended interview season provided some security. 

"I wasn't dissatisfied with it," said second-year student Bennett Spiegel. "It's the kind of thing where you kept on going until you got something." 

"I found it long and straining and I also found it worked pretty well," said second-year student Eugene Illovsky. "I don't see why people presuppose that because the interview season put a strain on students, that it's something that they shouldn't have to go through. Students can presumably decide whether they want to go through it or not." 


In December, by a two to one vote, the law school faculty took that decision out of students' hands. Next year's fall semester will begin one and a half weeks earlier than in previous years. In late September, students will submit a list of firms with which they want to interview. During one week in October, classes will not meet, and law firms will be assigned rooms at the Holiday Inn for interviewing. And the Thanksgiving vacation, formerly only two days, will be a full week to be designated the official call-back period. 

The faculty had been discussing for several years the possibility of altering the interview season. What finally motivated them, according to Dean Wellington, "was the concern that students were engaged over an extended period of time in the interview process, and that this led to a lack of engagement in the classroom experience and the educational process during the fall term." 

"The students had it very much on their minds," Wellington added. "Any day they had an interview, that was all that they were involved in." 

Some students agreed. "It was very annoying that students were so obsessed with getting jobs last semester, and it really detracted from the academic atmosphere of the law school," said Frankel. 

But many other students voiced opposition to the job fair. The elected student representatives to the faculty presented a survey which showed that 148 of 169 students polled preferred the old interview season. The faculty, however, noted that the survey polled only one-third of the students and had been accompanied by a memorandum criticizing the job fair. 

"I think the bulk of the student body was indifferent," stated Dean Wellington. But in the eyes of student representative Mary Gay Sprague, "The faculty did what they did despite pretty strong student opinion against it." 

At the very least, noticeably few students spoke out in favor of the job fair. So even if the student body was indifferent, the decision was made by the faculty for the students. 

"The faculty here have a particular vision about the Yale Law School being a place that is extremely academic," said one second-year student. "They consider job interviewing to be dirty work that should be limited to as curtailed a period as possible. It's an interesting bit of paternalism." 

What continues to bother some students is that the new system won't affect the two aspects of interviewing which most interfere with academic life: anxiety of interviewing and time spent interviewing. 

Even with the job fair, students will still be thinking about jobs from September to December. "Getting a job is going to be just as much on everyone's mind," said second-year student Randy Styers, "and it's going to be as much a subject of conversation and worry." 

And it doesn't appear that students will spend any less time in the job search. Most class time missed in the fall is for call-backs. But the Thanksgiving call-back period includes only three business days, and, agreed Dean Wellington, "There's no way of policing call-backs." 

In addition, the job fair may actually increase interviewing. "You may have students interviewing with more firms at the job fair than they interviewed with last fall," suggested Dean Zirkle. "That would be partly a reflection of hedging bets, partly a reflection of anxiety the first time through a job fair." 

"I don't think it's going to substantially change the interference that recruitment has," admitted Dean Wellington, "but it's a step in the right direction." 

But many students feel that the job fair will be counter-productive. For example, noted second-year student Tom Distler, "It shortens the summer, which takes away money and also restricts splitting the summer between firms," which many law students now do. Wellington, however, said that since the faculty had been considering a fall break anyway, the job fair could be viewed as "a reallocation of vacation time." 

Another problem concerns students far more than it does faculty: the possibility that the job fair will make it harder for some students to get jobs. One student representative reported that some professors did not believe that any Yale student would have trouble getting a job. And one professor expressed doubt that a ten-week summer job could be very important. 

But the most qualified students have always gotten many job offers, while other students interview a lot and get only one or two. The job fair may worsen this imbalance. Because all interviewing takes place before any student gets call-backs, said student representative Randy Michelson, "people who would ordinarily drop out of the system early on when they get their offers will interview more than they need to." And if students don't get call-backs after their interviews, they will face the arduous task of finding a job on their own. 

"No one will be hurt if we can help it," promised Dean Wellington. "We'll make arrangements if individual students have problems." 

"Older students and students who have weaker academic credentials," said Spiegel, "are the ones who will pay the price." 

The job fair will be held next year, despite student criticism. The law school administration is sincerely devoting its efforts to planning and arrangements which it hopes will alleviate academic interference without disturbing success in the job market. 

But student pessimism was summed up by second-year student Nancy Thompson, who said, "I'd like to think that perhaps it will condense all the agony into one really unpleasant week, but realistically I think people will go outside the job fair format." 

Steven Epstein is in his second year at Yale Law School. 
The New Journal/ April 19, 1982


**Title: Cross campus library: the great beige continuum**
**Author: Holly Lyman**
**Page number(s): 24**

24 



**Title: Cross Campus Library: A Haven for Jocks, Lesbians, and Weenies**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
They dug a big hole in the middle of 
Yale. They painted it white and put 
down beige carpets. They put in 
books, they put in desks, and they 
named it Cross Campus Library. 
Everybody makes fun of it. They say 
it looks like a bomb shelter or an airline 
terminal and it smells of smoke or 
spiritual decay or unwashed weenies. 
As one student library worker said, 
"CCL don't get no respect." 
Nonetheless, that hole in Cross 
Campus has come a long way since it 
was dug in 1968. Today it's more than 
a 
well-used library- it's the most 
heterogenous gathering place at Yale. 
On the average weekday night, except 
in February, CCL holds every group 
you can put a label on-jocks and les-
bians, freshman and graduate stu-
dents, a crowd of beautiful people and 
a silent majority of weenies. 


For the regulars in CCL, whether 
they're socialites, weenies or workers, 
the library provides a subterranean 
subculture with its own rules and 
folklore. Socialites tell stories about 
mooning, taking drugs, and holding 
court in CCL. Workers tell stories 
about crazy people they have helped 
(the man who wanted to make a bas-
ketball larger than the New Haven 
Coliseum, or the one who thought 
Communists were attacking his brain). 
Robert, a full-time worker and super-
visor, fondly recalled a rumour that 
those who built CCL had forgotten to 
connect the sewage pipes. "It was a 
good rumour. I know I did my best to 
spread it . . . You 
get your own 
folklore here." Even the weenies con-
tribute to CCL's graffiti. 


Most of the regulars in CCL follow 
unwritten rules. The front section of 
the library is a social center. As you 
walk to the back of the library and 
downstairs, the atmosphere becomes 
more decorous; the area around the 
single study carrels is nearly silent. At 
times, however, the library just isn't 
big enough to accomodate the variety 
of people who use it. 


"I've almost had fights in CCL," a 
senior said, "for being out of control 
and people being angry." On one occa-
sion two years ago, he said, "a guy said 
to me, 'would you shut up.' He was 
much bigger than me, but I was hang-
ing out with jocks." After a few epithets 
were exchanged, one of the jocks 
pulled a switchblade "It was a joke," the 
senior explained. "It wasn't a serious 
threat . . . more bragging to us that he 
had one. Still, pulling a switchblade in 
a tense situation ... " 


Quieter confrontations have oc-
curred this year when a group of men 
have arranged their chairs so they 
could stare at and talk about a group of 
lesbians. Y alesbian Maia Ettinger '83 
said she has never responded actively 
to this treatment. "They're not the peo-
ple we can talk to. Why should we 
waste our energy? We've got work to 
do." 


The library's official functions and 
rules make it a magnet for a variety of 
people. "For a place like Yale, which 
has always been book-oriented, it 
wouldn't make sense to segregate" 
libraries by user, said Head Librarian 
Howard Keith. Instead, Yale has seg-
regated books according to how fre-
quently they are used. CCL's 150,000 
volumes comprise Yale's intensive-use 
collection, with yearly circulation ap-
proaching 250,000. And because it 
holds most of the library system's 
closed and overnight reserve materials, 
CCL is an unavoidable workplace for 
many students who normally shun 
libraries. 


Moreover, 
for serious 
students who smoke,- CCL is a haven 
-the only general library where they 
can satisfy their habit. 


"I like the library," Senior Fred Kauf-
man said. "People don't realize how 
much you can do there. They just sit
around and study. They don't realize 
there's no end to the hubbub you can 
cause without getting into any 
trouble." 


For many of the fun-lovers at the 
front of the library, CCL is a big beige 
playground- a 
place to table-hop, 
gossip, and flirt. Even for the students 
who go to CCL to study, the library af-
fords 
welcome companionship- so 
welcome, in fact, that many have a 
hard time working in it. 


"I come here to socialize. When I 
really have to work, I go to the stacks 
or the Law School. Half the time I'm 
here I spend wandering around talking 
to people I know," Junior George 
Schwab said. "I work in a weenie hole 
so I don't have to listen to people like 
me make noise. When I'm not work-
ing, I make noise." 


CCL is the friendliest library at 
Yale. Its simple design and open spaces 
allow you to spot your friends there 
easily. People who use the library for 
socializing describe it as the only 
general meeting place on campus. 


"CCL is the student pub we don't 
have ... It fulfills a real function," 
Senior Liz Berger said. She added that 
"Yale puts a 
lot of emphasis on 
camaraderie within the college. 
There's no place to see people who 
aren't in your college. 


Berger said she enjoys the mixlUre of 
people in CCL and the occasional 
strange scenes it produces. She recalled 
giving a fashion show there for her new 
leather pants. She paraded through the 
front smoking section, where gay 
students tend to sit, and exclaimed 
"man, what I need is a sugar daddy to 
keep me in leather pants." A student 
turned around and told her, "man, you 
are in the wrong section of CCL for 
that." 


Is there a "right section" in CCL? No 
such luck. "It's a good place to talk to 
people you already know, but if you 
try to pick someone up, it doesn't 
work," a junior said. A senior woman 
said that CCL's innocent reputation, 
paradoxically, encouraged her to seek 
her former boyfriend there shortly after 
they met. "I'd want to see him. I used 
to walk around discretely, look in the 
cubicles. 'Oh, I was just in the 
neighborhood,'" she'd say. '"Do you 
have a pencil? Can I borrow a dime? 
Let's go the Machine City."' She em-
phasized that CCL is "really safe." The 
library provides not only hundreds of 
chaperones but also a wholesome exuse 
for running into a friend. A junior said 
that this is the reason he goes to CCL 
to see the women he's "madly in love 
with." "If I stopped by her room, she'd 
know I'd come to see her. But if I find 
her in CCL, I could just be there to 
study." 


Most of the students in CCL actually 
are there to do their work. People line 
up outside the library before it opens 
on Sundays. The single study carrels 
are all taken early in the evenings and 
during exams, it's sometimes impossi-
ble to find a seat anywhere in the 
library. 


CCL's inflexible deadlines and stiff 
fines (50 cents per quarter hour at clos-
ed reserve) anger many students. 
Serious confrontations between 
workers and students are most likely to 
occur when students can't check out 
the books they need. On a few rare oc-
casions, students have thrown books at 
the library workers. 


Although they don't enjoy this sort 
of abuse, the workers tend to be sym-
pathetic to students' frustration. "Ex-
plosions usually occur around exams," 
said Robert, who's had books thrown 
at him. "You're not really in control at 
that time. You've got finals, and here's 
this person who won't give the book to 
you." He added that people who lose 
their tempers at the library often 
return to apologize, which he ap-
preciates. 


"The situation has grown worse each 
year as the job market tightened up," 
Robert said "When I came here [seven 
years ago) this was a relaxed place." 


Supervisor Linda Mcintyre at-
tributed many confrontations to users' 
ignorance. "A lot of time, it's someone 
who's new to this library and doesn't 
know that fines are strict." She added 
that she seldom waives a fme. 


There are exceptions though. Before 
the new computers made deadlines in-
flexible, a conscientious appearance 
could help you avoid a fme. Student 
worker John Findar recalled "a very 
gaunt Divinity Student in a long cloak. 
His face was ashen, his eyes were 
sunken, deep dark wells. He was very 
soft-spoken. He walked up to the desk 
and said, 'I'd like to pay my fine.' I said 
'that'll be 25c,' and he said, 'I don't 
usually get fines, but my cat was sick 
and I couldn't leave her.' He was about 
to pay, but for my own sportsmanship, 
I decided to pursue the matter. I said, 
'why didn't you get a friend to take care 
of her?' He said, 'oh, no, that would be 
quite impossible. You see, I have no 
friends.' I said, 'oh well, in that case, 
no fine.'" 


Confrontations are nothing new for 
CCL. The library was a subject of 
dispute long before it was built. The 
architectural firm of Edward L. Barnes 
originally suggested that the under-
ground library be lit by raised skylights 
covering much of Cross Campus. 
After President Kingman Brewster 
and other Corportation members ob-
jected to this plan, the architects decid-
ed that CCL should instead be lit by 
two strips of ground-level skylights, 
with little trees planted between them 
and an overhead canopy of leaves. 
When this plan was unveiled in The 
New Journal in April 1968, it im-
mediately provoked protest. A Yale 
Daily News editorial thundered that "it 
would scarcely be no less of a desecra-
tion to construct a hamburger stand in 
the middle of the New Haven Green 
that to trade in the turf on the Cross 
Campus for footage of granite and 
glass." A Committee to Save the Cross 
Campus sent thousands of letters to 
alumni asking them to protest the 
plans, 
and its 
petitions quickly 
garnered 4000 signatures. 


Nevertheless, on the morning of 
April 23 a bulldozer crawled onto the 
Cross Campus to tear up two trees. It 
was stopped by hundreds of students 
who surrounded the trees until 
Presidential Assistant Henry 
Chauncey arrived and sent the work 
crews home, promising no excavation 
without notification. In keeping with 
the spirit of the times, the protest had 
its own song and the Committee to 
Save the Cross Campus held a sym-
bolic planting to "show our concem 
and commitment to preserving the 
grassy area. • 


History of Art Professor Vincent 
Scully gave aesthetic authority to the 
protesters' outrage. Although he was 
studying Mexican art in New Mexico

**CCL: The Friendliest (and Strangest) Library at Yale**
**Author: Holly Lyman**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
CCL Is the friendliest library at Yale. 

at the time of the confrontation, he sent a letter to Yale Daily News denouncing the skylight plans as technological and formalistic. He warned that "here the technological solution is innocent and unconcious enough, but pushed to its ultimate, for example, it was the on-ly process which could have unleased the Air Force upon Vietnam." Plans were made for Scully to fly back to Yale and deliver a lecture about the proposed library. Before his return, however, the firm dropped its plans for a skylight system, and the protest, its mission accomplished, dissolved. 

The library underwent a change in its proposed function while it was being designed. Originally, it was intended to be an Area Studies Library. At the request of librarians, plans for the interior were modified to make the stacks accessible and the library as a whole unintimidating. The building that resulted was carefully broken up into different kinds of study spaces. The front of the library contains comfortable, if unattractive, cushioned chairs. As you move to the back and downstairs, these give way to open tables, then to enclosed desks. The double study carrels at the sides of the library offer still greater privacy, and the single carrels at the back of the lower floor are insulated and completely self-contained. 

Many students were unimpressed, Upon completion in 1971 , the library was met with editorials moans. "You feel that somewhere along the line the architects must have failed to grasp the essential distinction between a warehouse and a library," wrote a former Yale Daily News chairman. Another opinion hailed CCL as "one of the deadest spaces on the campus, the great beige continuum." 

Today, however, most students who use CCL praise its design and coloring. "The reason I started studying here was because it was so dark and dull," Sophomore Val Pierce said. "The most colorful thing was the cover of your book." Graduate student Andy Cappel likes the beige because "it's so hideous it forces you to socialize or study or sleep." 

CCL is used so much, in fact, that it is deteriorating more rapidly than it is being repaired. The carpets are ripped and waterstained; in places they have been worn through to the floor. The paint is peeling, and the cushions of chairs are torn. "It needs a little more attention," Keith said. CCL's librarians, however, have had little success persuading Yale to pour more money into library maintenance. 


**CCL Closing Announcements: A Ballad of "Locomotive Breath" and Leaping Frogs**
**Page number(s): 29**

"Let's do the weenie again!" 
.At the stroke of midnight in an academic race 
Works the all-time weenie at a furious pace 
&u penal madly scribbling as he tries to gtt it down 
But nows the time for lulving and CCL is closing down 
You know, it must shut down. 
Its 11:45, we are closing soon. 
Its ch«kout deodline, we will grant no boon. 
Go to your dormitory, you can study on 'til dawn 
But now its time for leaving an.d CCL is closing, 
If you have closed reserve books, you know tluJJ you art there. 
Rttum those books an.d pamphlets, we have none to sptut. 
if not, we have to fine you. T1uu would not befon. 
But nows the time for leaving, CCL is closing. 
Everyone go home. 
-Matt Gold's venion of 
•Locomotive Breath• 
(all rigbts reserved) 
The now-defunct tradition of singing CCL announcements began in the spring of 1977, when student worker Matt Gold ('79) grew bored of the standard closing message. "It seemed better to sing it," he recalled. "'d take a regular song and write new lyrics, weaving in 'it's 11 :45,' 'we dose at 12:00,' 'checkout is closed,' and 'return your closed reserve materials.' The problem was those four didn't rhyme very well." H is repenoire expanded to include such ballads as "She's Got a Paper to Write." Other workers joined in the fun, and some evenings featured a CCL sing-along. 

The library administration stopped the music, however, in the middle of the fall of '77, after Gold and fellow-workers broadcast a seven and a half-minute version of "Stairway to Heaven." "We got carried away," Gold said. "They told us ... it didn't fit in with their idea of how a library should run." 

CCL, however, has never been a normal library. Workers there still make occasional weird announcements. They fondly recall students' wilder Halloween costumes and Secret Society initiations. Several enjoy the story about the streakers this year (almost no one noticed them) or the Leap Year's Day when students released a garbage bag of frogs and everyone had to stop working to catch frogs. (The joke went bad the next day when people began to find dead frogs.) 

You can do almost anything you like in CCL, including drugs. A senior who considers the library a fine place to socialize recalled tripping there. "I remember going into CCL and looking up 'hallucinate.' Then I went running around and throwing books around, pushing them off shelves." He added, "It's not the average place to trip." 

It's not the average library, either, or the average social center. It's more than a gathering place and less than a melting pot. What is CCL? As Senior Fred Kaufman said, "CCL is relief in the face of books." 


**David Frum: The Conservative Voice at Yale**
**Author: Gabriella Stern**
**Page number(s): 30**

Everyone hates David Frum, or so it seems, judging from the screaming headlines on the op-ed page of the Yale Daily News: 
"Frum: Distortions, Misrepresentations and Lies;" "Frum 'laden with lies';" "Frum's Awful Spectre." His name has become a term of disparagement among liberals on campus, synonymous with elitist conservatism. "Now you're talking like David Frum," more than one student has been overheard saying to another in Frum's attire approximates preppie. 

During our interview he wore a brown-and-grey, tweed sports jacket over a pink sweater, beige slacks and penny loafers. Thick, neatly-clipped, curly dark-brown hair frames broad, fleshly cheeks and an immense forehead. A pair of tortoise-shell granny glasses sit on a long, wide nose that slopes into a pair of flared nostrils. As he talks, his shapeless lips are shifted somewhat to one side, and he holds his hands close in front of his face, wriggling his fingers, and flexing one hand or the other with a quick wrist movement. 

Frum loves to talk, and he talks about his notoriety on campus in the enthusiastic manner of a gourmet discussing food. He uses many compounds, nouns and adjectives, and tends to be much less concise in person than in his column. 

"Writing columns has been enormously educational for me. At first, my ideas were such a hodge-podge, a contradictory and complicated mess of notions. I had to learn to be consistent within a column and between columns." So far, he's been quite consistent. Since January 1981, when he began the column, he has come out against nuclear disarmament, the Equal Rights Amendment, the Palestinian Liberation Organization, the annual Yale Hunger Action Program fast, a Peace Conference held here in February and last fall's "Take Back the Night" march organized by local feminist groups. 

"My column is a kind of public service. I'm preventing the Daily from becoming a Maoist rag. I'm preserving some balance. You have to force the course of a political discussion. 
"I like causing fuss,~ says Frum, whose weekly column , "Juvenilia," (which means "youthful works" in Latin) has provoked dozens of letters and opinion pieces from students and professors, particularly feminists and pacifists, upset by his radically right-wing views. Nevertheless, Frum claims to speak for a large number of closet conservative undergraduates at Yale, "the 20 per cent who voted for Reagan," he says, his thick, pink lips spreading into a wide, gap-toothed smile. "I think you'd be astonished at the number of people who do not share the liberal concerns at Yale. Eighty per cent of all college graduates are Republicans. Most Yale students will be conservatives after college." 

After college, Frum, T.D., '82, might have a job writing speeches for Vice-President George Bush, although no final arrangements have been confirmed. If it falls through, he'll work for the Conservative Party of Canada as a researcher or policy assistant, after which he'll either go into punditry or business. If he chooses business, he plans to "make some money and buy first editions." 



**Title: David Frum: A Conservative Voice at Yale**
**Author: Gabriella Stern**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
David Frum in his room. 
majority opinion to be a little more 
careful than it is, when it is the expres-
sion of uniform opinion. There ought 
to be somebody around to say, 'you 
just aren't intellectually honest."' Frum 
sees Yale as an essentially "non-
political" campus, where "people are 
liberal when they are political at all. A 
very small minority are left-wing 
liberals. Most of the people share the 
values of the rest of the country." For 
example, he feels students generally 
"support some measures of resistance 
against the Soviet Union. But no one 
at Yale in any open way is going to say 
anything against nuclear disarma-
ment." 

Uphampered by any such inhibi-
tion!, Frum opposed a Peace Con-
ference sponsored by the University 
Chaplain's Office in February. In the 
piece, he addressed participants in the 
conference who believe "the United 
States and the Soviet Union equally 
threaten world peace" and that "addi-
tions to the American nuclear arsenal 
make nuclea~ war more likely." By 
demanding that the American ~overn­
ment disar'r.l, these people are mcreas-
Rollin Riggs/The New Journal 
ing the likelihood of a Soviet military 
buildup and ultimately a "Soviet first 
strike," Frum wrote. At first, readers 
felt perversely satisfed when left-wing 
columnist Rob Glaser accused Frum of 
"distortions, misrepresentations, and 
lies." But after Glaser continued bat-
tering away at Frum, justifying his use 
of the word "lie" instead of justifying 
the essence of his accusations against 
Frum, those same readers began send-
ing letters to the editor in Frum's 
defense. 

Frum favors U.S. support to the 
Duarte regime in El Salvador to pre-
vent the revolutionaries from institu-
ting ''Marxist-Leninist totalitarianism'' 
in the Cemral American nation. Re-
cently Frum wrote, "What good will it 
do for the people of El Salvador or for 
American strategic interests to realize 
after we have lost in El Salvador how 
important it was, and how right it was, 
to win? America lost in Vietnam be-
cause its intellectuals could not bring 
themselves 
to 
believe 
the 
truth. 
America is in danger of losing in El 
Salv.ador for the same reasons,'' 
(YDN, March 23, 1982). 

Another of Frum's pet peeves is "the 
divestment people," students and pro-
fessors who don't want Yale to invest in 
companies that do business with the 
apartheid-practicing South African 
government. Frum has attacked their 
"mind-boggling hypocrisy" in a couple 
of pieces: "They're against Yale in-
vesting in South Africa, but don't seem 
to mind that Yale invests in all kinds of 
nasty authoritarian countries such as 
Burundi, Tanzania, the U.S.S.R." 

On several occasions, he also has 
criticized feminists for engaging in 
what he considers a similar kind of 
sloppy thinking. 
Last September, 
Frum condemned a march "To Take 
Back the Night" in which women from 
Yale and New Haven protested their 
inability to walk alone after dark 
without fear of rape. Frum's point: 
Crime, such as rape, is not an issue of 
concern only to women, but to all. His 
conclusion: The march would be "ut-
terly useless' because it failed to ad-
dress the broader problem of crime in 
the community. In response to the col-


--- Page 32 ---

32 
umn, several students asserted in let-
ters to the Yale Daily News that Frum 
had "callously" ignored the possibility 
that rape is a "sexually motivated" 
crime against women, and that he 
overlooked the effect a large number of 
women gathering in protest might 
have on local crime prevention. 

Frum's stand on feminism stems 
from his conviction that the family is 
"the most important institution in 
society." He believes "the American 
feminist movement and the family are 
not compatible. 
While feminism 
became enormously powerful in the 
1960s, the family took a beating," he 
says. If the E.R.A. passed, he says, it 
"would remove any ability of society to 
pass protectionist laws for the family." 
Frum studied feminism last year in a 
Women's Studies course "Feminism 
and Philosophy." "I did it because I 
wanted to get the coherent argument 
behind the philosophy. Of course we 
did not. Feminism is a hodge-podge 
and medley of contradictory ideas. It is 
euentially a politically radical move-
ment." Here is where Frum truly plays 
devil's advocate. Frum opposes the 
E.R.A ., as well as organized feminist 
groups, but devilishly has neglected to 
tell his readers that he strongly sup-
ports equal opportunity for women; he 
also supports abortion rights. "I am 
less sexist than 98 per cent of the men I 
know. They believe in the E.R.A. and 
also helieve their girlfriend should 
sacrifice her career for them." 

Frum enjoys 
discussing the 
Women's Studies Couse, in which he 
was one of the four men enrolled. "The 
professor was Carol Donovan. I calJed 
her Professor Donovan. Everyone else 
called her Carol. I loathe calJing pro-
fessors by their f1r1t names because it's 
pretending you're in an egalitarian 
relationship when you're not. It shows 
a lack of respect and good manners." 

Frum• manners are beyond 
Rolin R~ IThe New JooXNI 
Frum and News Editorial Editor jacob Levitch discuss Frum 's latest editorial. 
reproach. At Yale, he hangs around a 
handful of intellectuals in Ezra Stiles 
College, with whom he might be found 
discussing Proust (whose entire oeuvre 
he's read "in English in the old transla-
tion, half in the new English transla-
tion, and half in French.") He also 
finds time to organize and engage in 
debates as the President of the Yale 
Debate Association. His debating skills 
are 
evident 
in his 
characteristic 
glibness and poise. "In the fall of 1980, 
I was one-half of a team (the other half 
was Steve Weiner '81) that beat Har-
vard, at Harvard, for the ftrSt time 
since 1950. The topic was 'Resolved: 
Liberalism Will Rise Again.' We 
argued the negative.'' 

Born and raised in Toronto, Frum 
grew up in an "extraordinarily happy," 
"superficially 
liberal" 
family. 
His 
mother is a successful television inter-
viewer- the 
Barbara Walters of 
Can ada- and 
his 
father 
is 
a 
businessman with a world-famous col-
lection of African art. In high school, 
Frum was School Captain, a Toronto 
equivalent of president of the student 
government. He also was a hippy 
radical. In his high school yearbook 
portrait his hair was long and his eyes 
wild. He now refuses to discuss his pre-
Yale days at much length, but former 
high school classmates say he belonged 
to an artistic set and had a fascination 
with drugs. He sobered up at Yale. "I 
wore a tie every day sophomore year." 

A combination of forces shaped his 
political views at Yale. "Directed 
Studies, which I was in freshman year, 
is a program that says these ancient, 
musty books are of enormous value. 
Also, whatever political statements 
people made auU)ma.Jicaliy freshman 
year were liberal. If you were bothered 
by rote statements, it drove you to the 
right. And Yale itself is imbued with 
tradition. You can loathe it or revel in 
it. Finally, there are a few conservative 
intellectuals at Yale. Eugene Rostow 
was my junior-year advisor. I met with 
him once a week for an hour last year. 
It was an exhilarating experience.'' 

Frum may be one of the only Yale 
undergraduates to be published in the 
New Yorker. The magazine, which often 
prints bloopers from other publica-
1 
tions, in February quoted a garbled 
paragraph from one of Frum's col-
umns, and concluded with the editor's 
note, "See us after class, Mr. Frum." 
Frum was not amused. "I was 
humiliated beyond description. It was 
read out loud in an introductory 
macro-economics class. I calJed home 
and told my father and mother about 
this thing. They laughed for about ten 
minutes." 

Frum will earn a combined B.A. 
and M.A. in history this May. His 
1 00-page senior essay concerns the last 
six months of the Vietnamese Republic 
and whether it fell due to corruption or 
lack of U.S. support. "'tis true that in 
the last year and a half, they didn't 
have enough bullets and bandages. It's 
the fault of the U.S. Congress. You 
could have had a free Vietnam for 
another 1.45 billion dollars." For the 
essay, Frum has conducted interviews 
with American public policy makers, 
several 
generals,_ historians and 
political scientists along the East Coast. 

Frum may be the News' most con-
troversial columnist in years. One 
reader, Michael Froomkin, '82, charg-
ed in a letter that Frum has committed 
J 
so many factual errors that the News 
editors should stop publishing his col-
umn. "At present, Mr. Frum writes 


--- Page 33 ---

like a sawed -off shotgun. He can do far 
better, and should be forced to, or ask-
ed to find another market for his 
work,'' wrote Froomkin. 

News 
Editorial Editor Jacob Levich, '83, 
defended Frum. "Michael Froomkin 
has a number of interpretive and 
ideological disagreements with David 
Frum. That is his privilege. He has, 
however, failed to point out a single 
factual error in Mr. Frum 's columns." 

In another letter to the News, Sopho-
more Pam Harris called Frum "a 
master at the respectable art of subjec-
tive 
interpretation." 
In 
criticizing 
Democratic Senatorial candidate Toby 
Moffett of Connecticut, "Frum 
wrongly blames the Democrats for the 
U.S.'s economic problems, and over-
looks the Democrats' contributton to 
the civil rights movement," Harris 
claimed. "Mr. Frum has treated the 
reader to a history of the period from 
1964 to 1980 that is so limited in scope 
that it goes beyond subjective interpre-
tation and approaches reckless disre-
gard of historical reality,'' Harris 
wrote. "Mr. Frum relies on two 
devices to rewrite American history-
the misrepresentation of some facts, 
and the painfully obvious exclusion of 
others." 

Frum denies the accusations, claim-
ing his assailants fail to find inac-
curacies and simply disagree with him. 
He also concocts some of his own 
charges, primarily against arch-rival 
Rob Glaser, who writes a liberal week-
ly column "What's Left" and also co-
edits the editorial page. Frum recently 
accused Glaser of using the editorial 
page for ideological and personal ven-
dettas. "What concerns me even more 
than Glaser's bad taste.'.' wrote Frum. 
• 'is that he is converting this page into 
his personal soap-box. Glaser edits this 
page every other day. If he has e .. er 
printed a letter or column whose con-
tents were riot agreeable to him, I am 
unaware of it." (Glaser, of course, 
denies this.) 

Frum fears that students and pro-
fessors who read the Yale Daily News 
think he d islikes the U niversity. After 
all, he has taken an ad hominem ap-
proach in several pieces, criticizing the 
"dangerously radical" views of Univer-
sity Chaplain J ohn Vannorsdall more 
than once, and condemn ing A . Bartlett 
Giamatti for being hypocritical in last 
September's Freshman Address attack-
ing the Moral Majority. Says Frum "A 
lot of people think I'm a J eremiah rail-
ing away at everything at Yale. T hat's 
unfortunate. Despite the rid iculous 
things like th e Peace Conference, this 
University is of tremendous value. 
People here basically have their heads 
screwed on right, and will p robably 
become Republicans." 

Gabriella Stnn, a senior in Saybrook, is 
former News Editor of the Yale Daily 
News. She writes for the Associated Press.


**Title: A time of absurd contrasts**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When our plane landed at Tampa Airport, Andrew Hoskins wanted to make 
sure the crew's arrival did not go unnoticed. Dressed as an Arabian sheik, 
Andrew led us off the plane, kneeled 
down and kissed the ground. 

Although not everyone makes it as 
obvious as Andrew, all of us on the 
lightweight crew realize that the spring 
training trip to Florida means more 
than getting in shape. It is the pivotal 
point in our training, and a time of the 
most absurd contrasts: constant inter-
squad competition and unparalleled 
camaraderie, the most painful part of 
the training and yet the most eagerly 
awaited, a time when you want to cry, 
but all the same you somehow manage 
a smile as you limp down to the dock. 
Florida is the time when we become 
a team. 

While most of the squads are staying 
in the Holiday Inn, only about half the 
lightweights are there. The rest of us, 
including the freshman squad, are 
staying in the University of Tampa 
visiting team dorm, a cross between a 
dilapidated army barracks and a county 
jail. About thirty of us live in one 
large room with a vast array of small 
insects and no air conditioning. 

For all its disadvantages, the dorm 
encourages team unity. Teamwork is 
the difference between success and failure 
in crew. In a shell, everything must 
happen with perfect coordination so 
that the oars enter and leave the water 
together. The boat moves fastest not 
when you are pulling on the oar, but 
when the boat glides along after the 
stroke. A blade left in the water for 
even a fraction of a second too long 
drags down the whole shell. This is one 
reason why a crew is not remembered 
for individual members. At the end of 
this season, we will be remembered, 
fondly or otherwise, as the crew of 
1982. 

March 7 

The first practice reminded us of just 
how important teamwork is. As the 
sun rose, the eight-man shells pushed 
off from the dock and began the row up 
the Hillsborough River. 

The practice was frustrating. From 
his coaching launch, Dave (Vogel, 
lightweight crew coach) yelled at us, as 
each oar entered the water at a different 
time, and the shells rocked from 
side to side. As long as the shells are 
unstable, it is very difficult to put full 
power on the strokes. 

After practice we straggled back to 
our rooms and slept until the afternoon 
practice at 3:30. We have begun the 
pattern of dawn practice, sleep, after-
noon practice, sleep. Today we all 
slept between ten and twelve hours. 

Already it seems as if Dave has 
deliberately created a taskmaster image 
for himself. A rumor has started that 
Dave maintains such a severe attitude 
so that the team will be angry at him 
rather than at each other during the 
stress of Florida. Whether the rumor is 
true or not, he is clearly under pressure, 
not a physical one, but the emotional 
one of treading the poorly defined 
boundaries between friendship and 
favoritism, objectivity and coldness. 

March 9 

Today, Dave began the first in a series 
of individual competitions, otherwise 
known as seat racing. We row in four-
man shells, racing each other for three-
minute intervals or "pieces." After 
each piece, Dave yells "pull 'em together," 
the coxswains bring the boats 
side by side and two of us switch places. 
The person whose boat wins the next 
piece after the switch wins his seat 
race, and proves that he can move a 
boat faster than his teammate. 

Seat racing is the ultimate cruelty. 
All winter long we have cheered each 
other through practice, but now we 
rise and switch places in silence, having 
no one to turn to for encouragement. 

But cruel or not, Dave yelled the 
command and the shells began to race. 
My boat, stroked by Ivor Benjamin, 
won the first piece. For the second, 
Dave switched Ivor with the stroke of 
the other shell, Andy Tomback. Andy 
won the next piece, but not by as much 
as Ivor had won the first one. And so 
the morning went on, Dave making 
switches and recording the results. 

After practice, we all went to breakfast 
together and discussed what we 
thought the boats for the afternoon 
would be. The speculation never ends; 
it dominates our conversation and 
pushes tempers to the limit. We spend 


the first part of the morning staring at 
each other across the water, and the second 
staring at each other across a 
table. Sometimes things seem very 
claustrophobic. 

March 11: 

Despite all the seat racing we have 
been doing, none of us really knows 
what the results mean. The only indication 
Dave gives us is in the lineup 
boards, which indicate the boatings for 
the next workout. The names are lined 
up in vertical rows, paralleling the 
seats in a shell. Moving toward a seat 
in the stern is a good sign, moving 
toward the bow indicates trouble. 

We are beginning to really feel the 
effects of the hard 
practices. 
Everyone's hands graphically reflect 
the work. Our calluses from winter 
training have torn away, and hands 
swell, crack and bleed. Legs weaken so 
that standing becomes painful. The 
workouts even make lying down an 
ordeal; sore muscles can't be kept in 
the same position without pain. In the 
end, only complete exhaustion saves 
you from 
the torment of aching 
muscles, anesthetizing you in a deep 
sleep which never lasts long enough. 

March 13: 

By now practices are not only physically 
exhausting but mentally exhausting 
as well. No one could testify to this better 
than the seniors on the team who 
are trying, with little success, to work 
on their senior essays. 

We'll have a free day tomorrow, our 
only real day of spring break. To 
celebrate, tonight we went out to dinner 
at an Italian restaurant. The 
restaurant made the mistake of having 
an "all you can eat" salad bar, and 
inexpensive beer served in liter steins. As 
the owner now knows, the term "light-
weights" has no apparent relationship 
to how much we eat or to the style in 
which we celebrate. A record consumption 
of beer, five steins, led one 
enthusiast to knock out a window from 
the team van. Unfortunately, this took 
place while Dave was driving us home 
from dinner. 

March 15: 

Dave held a meeting before morning 
practice. Word had gotten out that he 
planned to punish the team for our 
conduct at the restaurant with an 
especially 
tough 
workout. 
Dave 
promptly denied that he ever punishes 
with practices; workouts are only to improve. 
But, as usual, the rumor was at 
least partially true: the workout was a 
killer. 

Workouts have been steadily getting 
harder. Everyone's hands look like 
ground-up hamburger. Before every 
practice most of us tape our hands to 
cover the blisters. But by now the tape 
only digs into and aggravates the torn 
skin. 

March 16: 

The dorm is slowly becoming unbearable. 
Last night someone moved his 
mattress into the locker room across 
the alley. It was air conditioned, and it 
certainly didn't smell any worse than 
the dorm. 

March 17: 

To ease some of the tension, the team 
members in the senior class, led by 
Captain Steve Gavin, organized one of 
the traditional spring training events, 
skit night. After a team barbecue by 
the Holiday Inn pool, each class performed 
a skit filled with bawdy humor 
making fun of the other classes, the 
coach, and rowing itself. The juniors' 
skit took full advantage of the phallic 
shape of a crew shell, and left the team 
in hysterics. 

The skits are a team catharsis, a 
primal scream in the midst of the 
fighting for the seats. In some sports 
getting angry gives you a competitive 
edge, but crew requires a discipline 
which allows for no wild moves or 
grudges. 

But as much as it vents frustrations, 
skit night also answers the question 
why—a question even the most dedicated 
oarsman asks himself between 
the fifth and sixth three-minute piece 
after he has just lost a seat race. Crew 
has a tradition for everything, and the 
answer to this question is no exception. 
At the end of the evening, after all the 
skits were finished, the seniors stood 
before the team and sang "Bright College 
Years." 

When you see the guys who have 
always been around sing about the 
"friendships formed at Yale," something 
hits home which puts the pain 
and the pressure of seat racing into 
perspective. 

Winning seat 
races 
doesn't mean much if your boat loses 
in the spring, and teamwork means 
more than winning races. 

For a moment everyone was quiet, 
but Florida allows little time for sentimental 
thoughts. The mood broken, 
everyone walked away laughing and 
joking. As we went to check the lineup 
board, there was another pause in the 
laughter. Even though you don't want 
to, you stare at the lineups horizontally 
rather than 
vertically, 
wondering




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Morris Pannn-**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
whose name will be opposite yours in 
the morning. 
March 19: 
During these last d ays of Florida, 
everyone is beginning to want to come 
back to the Housatonic River in Derby 
and test ourselves against the other 
crews in the East. As Dave constantly 
reminds us, we will have to get a great 
deal faster if we want to win the 
Eastern Sprints in May. 
· Even after all the seat racing, we still 
don't know what boats we are in. 
When we return to Derby, the scar rac-
ing and practices will continue. Six 
races in eight weeks are ahead. As hard 
as it is, Florida is really only the begin-
ning of the workload, not the end. 
But the team has already passed a 
test of sorts. The boats move with a 
certain assurance, a steadiness and 
power which foretell of great things. 
After two weeks in Florida, we have 
started to understand why seat racing 
is so valuable even if the results aren't 
always clear: somehow all the competi-
tion has taught us to trust each other 
for more than a three-minute piece. 
• 
Morris Pannn-, a sophomor~ rn Ezra Sttl~s. 
is a m~bn- of th~ lightw~(t:ht cr~w ttam.


**Title: Venturi's firehouse: masterpiece or functional nightmare?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

If you go west out Broadway to where 
the streets branch off in three direc-
tions, take the middle of these, Gaffe 
Street, and walk on for a couple of 
blocks, you will come to a famous and 
perplexing building. There on your 
right will be the Dixwell Fire Station 
designed by the Philadelphia-based ar-
chitect, Robert Venturi. Designed in 
1970, the building has drawn praise 
from many architects and critics. 
Cesar Pelli, a prominent architect and 
Dean of Yale's School of Architecture, 
says that it's a 
"very successful 
building." Vincent Scully, Yale's 
highly 
respected 
architectural his-
torian, says, "I think it's marvelous!" 
But to the people who live around it 
and work in it, this acclaimed "master-
piece" is simply another building, or 
worse, a functional nightmare. Neigh-
bor Leslie Stanley says she "never real-
ly thought about it, other than it's neat 
and basically clean." The firemen think 
about it, but not in fond terms. They 
complain that the hard tile wall sur-
faces bounce sound so you can't hear 
anything over the P.A. system. The of-
ficers' quarters are at the opposite end 
of the building from the control room, 
adding unnecessary delay during an 
alarm. And the lights in the truck bay 
are the mercury vapor type which take 
fifteen minutes to turn on, leaving the 
fLre trucks long gone before they are 
lit. Fireman Bob Dawes sums it up by 
saying, "I'd rather work in an ugly 
building that's 
functional 
than 
a 
beautiful building you get lost in every 
time the alarm comes in." 

These reactions are all the more sur-
prising when you discover that the 
stated intentions of the architect were 
to design a totally functional building, 
rather than to shackle the users to some 
kind of"architectural ego trip." In fact, 
the building was part of a tremendous 
controversy at tbe time. 
Venturi 
sought to tear down everything about 
Modern Architecture which was ir-
reverent and insensitive to ordinary 
people. In his book Learning from Las 
Vtgas, he completc;ly shocked Modern 
architects by giving serious attention to 
the American ·strip. It was there, 
among the neon and biHboards and far 
from the centers of "high art,"· that 
Venturi felt the "desires and values of 
ordiilary people" found meaning. All 
that Modern architects would hold as 
"ugly and ordinary" summed up for 
Venturi the essence of"straightforward 
building in line with the needs of the 
client." Modern architects were in-
furiated. 

So the Dixwell Fire Station, which 
wholeheartedly embraces the spirit of 
this controversy, is supposed to be "ug-
ly and ordinary." It's supposed to fit 
perfectly into it's context, and it's sup-
posed to reflect "straightforwardly" the 
needs of the users within. New York 
Timts architecture cnuc Paul 
Goldberger said recently that the 
building is "practical, down to earth, 
and reason2ble." By Venturi's own ac-
count, "The building is simple in form 
-there are no wings or chances in roof 
height (like Modern architects would 
have done)-and big in scale. There 
are letters on the facade to identify it in 
the traditional manner of civic 
buildings, but when they reach the cor-
ner, the wall they are on disengages 
and cantilevers to make a brick 
signboard (like the billboards on the 
American strip)." But the building's 
rhetoric is not true to life. The building 
does not satisfy the firemen, and it 
doesn't fit so snugly into its context 
either. Although the neighbors report 
indifference to the building's presence, 
in apparent agreement with Venturi's 
rhetoric, there is something unsettling 
about the way it is set back from the 
street at a strange angle. It's nothing 
like the firehouse it replaced which has 
now been 
turned 
into 
Fitzwilly's 
Restaurant on 
Elm Street. That 
building sits politely in a neat row with 
all its neighbors, and is truly contex-
tual. 

By 
comparison, Venturi's 
building seems a lot more concerned 
with drawing attention to itself, sitting 
there at an angle with all that space 
around it. Even the color of its bricks 
seems a bit shocking compared with 
the more subdued colors of the sur-
rounding buildings. And what does a 
"brick signboard" have to do with the 
neighborhood consisting mostly of 
housing projects? Where's the strip? 
Just about everything the rhetoric 
claims seems wrong. 

So what's so great about the Dixwell 
Fire Station? Why should someone like 
Vincent Scully think it's "marvelous?" 
The answer, it seems, is hidden 


---

somewhere outside the rhetoric which 
accompanied the design. Perhaps the 
rhetoric, as is often the case, conceals 
more than it illuminates. 

In an early and important publica-
tion, Complexity and Contradiction in Ar-
chitecture (1966), Venturi does not ad-
vocate dullness and ordinariness, but 
symbolism and formal complexity. Sym-
bolism, Venturi writes, means that ar-
chitects should adorn their buildings 
with symbolic cues which clarify their 
functional intentions. For example, 
Venturi would use a symbolic arch to 
indicate an entrance. This philosophy 
contradicted the established practice of 
Modern architects, whose complete 
devotion to abstract sculptural forms 
worked to disguise functional inten-
, tions. Ask anyone who has tried to find 
the entrance to the Art and Architec-
ture Building on York Street and you 
will sympathize with Venturi's outrage. 
Venturi's notion of formal complexity is 
also at odds with the premise of 
Modern Architecture. Modern ar-
chitects, Venturi says, start with a 
simplistic design concept and then try 
to shoehorn the diverse needs of the 
building into it. When Paul Rudolph 
designed the Art and Architecture 
Vmtun· 's firehouse 
building, he started with a sculptural 
idea and then fit the various studios 
and galleries into that concept. Ven-
turi, on the other hand, starts by con-
sidering the requirements of the 
building, allowing them to be visually 
expressed in a flexible end product. He 
says this invigorates the building and 
remedies the modern malaise of boring 
simplicity. The modern credo: "Less is 
more." About modern buildings like 
the Beinecke Rare Book Library, Ven-
turi would say, "Less is a bore!" 

Seen from this light, it becomes ap-
parent that when Venturi states the in-
tentions of the firehouse, he means that 
the building symbolizes those intentions. 
The layout of the building and the use 
of materials 
represent abstractly, 
rather than literally, the rhetoric sur-
rounding the design. The bricks, for 
example, are just metaphors for "or-
dinary building," because really or-
dinary buildings' bricks would have 
been different, as the Fitzwilly's exam-
ple shows. 

The reason for keeping it abstract 
and symbolic is that the building can 
straddle two worlds- the one offensive 
to Modern architects whose abstract 
language it speaks and who Venturi 
Venturi would say, "Less Is a 
bore!" 
wishes to attack, the other acceptable 
to ordinary people with whose com-
mon vernacular it associates. Says 
Charles Moore, an architect often 
compared to Venturi in importance, 
"If he can manage to infuriate the in-
tellectuals while he's not giving offense 
to the people around, he's doing exact-
ly what he means tc, what he probably 
ought to." 

But also, the abstraction establishes 
a uniqueness. The firehouse isn't quite 
like anything else, and that difference 
fends off the threat of anonymity, 
which is any artist's number one 
enemy. Venturi doesn't want his 
building to be confused with common 
architecture any more than he wants it 
to be confused with modern architec-
ture. After all, it isn't the worker hous-
ing next door to which Venturi truly 
aspires, but to great architecture of 
history. 

The real success of the DixweU Fire 
Station lies in Venturi's handling of 
formal 
complexity. 
He 
responds 
brilliantly to the functional and visual 
pressures acting on the site by the 
cityscape around it, and the fire com-
pany housed in it. The firehouse had to 
have a large room with big bay doors 



**Title: Venturi's Fire Station**
**Author: Robert Orr**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
" I'd rather work In an ugly 
building that's functional 
than a beautiful building you 
get lost In every time the 
alarm comes ln." 

on the ground floor, and smaller rooms 
for bunks and lockers above. The site 
for the building is a location which 
Venturi considers "at the edge of 
downtown, and the city's buildings jut 
up above the low buildings in the 
foreground. 

Also, the firehouse is 
located at the spot Goffe Street 
doglegs; 
the street comes directly 
toward the building and then turns to 
head more toward the city. 

Rather than slavishly accomodate to 
these pressures in an act of passive con-
textual ism, 
Ventu ri 
wilfu lly 
manipulates apd carefully exploits the 
·pressures to his own advantage. It's a 
sort of architectural jujitsu. 

Venturi set the building back from 
the street at an angle so that it directly 
confronts your vision when you drive 
toward town on Goffe Street. From 
this position the billboard facade takes 
on new characteristics. In its flat 
stretched horizontal state it now acts 
like a base, providing a clean line 
above which the tall buildings beyond 
rise prominently. The weight of the 
buildings pushes down on the fire sta-
tion giving it strength. The energy of 
that compression acts with the bold let-
ters on the facade, which read from left 
to right, visually pushing the building 
toward Goffe Street as it passes by. 

The disengaged wall at the right takes 
that m ovement and inflects it up over 
the traffic, suggesting a great portal in-
to the city- not one standing directly 
over the street, but one next to it like 
ancient Babylonian gateways with the 
lions to either side. 

The fenestration further supports 
this reading since the second story 
locker room windows with their square 
design, appear to spring from the large 
square bay doors on the first floor. Of 
similar shape but smaller in size, the 
windows move up and to the right out 
over the traffic taking with them the 
disengaged wall as if pulled ofT by the 
turbulence of speeding cars down in 
Tom SrrongrThe New Joumal 
the roadway. 

Venturi's approach 
gives 
the 
building greater power than one would 
have expected from a building of such 
small size and limited scope. By 
skillfully addressing aspects inherent in 
the context, Venturi achieves results 
far richer than had he ignored it all and 
acted hermetically like the Modem ar-
chitectS with which he contrasts 

himself. Says Vincent Scully, "Contex-
tually, I think it's terrific. I mean the 
context there-the towers of Yale and 
the ridge line to the west of the city . . . 
and the opening of the space! Its 
velocity is terrific!" Indeed, the 
building absorbs a lot from its surroun-
dings, and offers back even more in 
return. 

• 
Robert Orr, (Yale Architecture '63) is a New 
Haven architect. He has wn.tten for Ar-
chitectural Design Magazine, and for 
AlA Journal, and his designs have ap-
peared in House Beautiful and House 
and Garden. 
Will 
Winkelstein, 
a 
soplwmore in 
Saybrook, provided editorial assistance for 
this article. 


**Title: Research----Why babies fail to thrive**
**Author: Tom Feigelson**
**Page number(s): 42**

Moth" and child int"act on video. 
A seven month-old girl was admitted 
recently to Yale-New Haven Hospital. 
She weighed eleven pounds. Though 
her mother reported that she was a 
"voracious eater," she appeared to be 
starving. To the frustration of parents 
and doctors, the full series of pediatric 
tests revealed no physical illness which 
might explain her failure to grow. 

Dr. Joe Woolston, the Yale child 
psychiatrist who examined the baby, 
had reason to suspect an nnotio1141 
source for the failed growth. When the 
baby responded to her first week in the 
calm environment of the hospital by 
gaining a 
few 
ounces, 
Woolston 
thought his suspicions were confirmed: 
time away from home, under the care 
of the nursing staff, had apparently 
helped the baby to gain a full half-
pound. 

Dr. Woolston and his team of 
researchers at the Yale Child Study 
Center are studying a puzzling syn-
drome of growth failure in infancy call-
ed "Nonorganic Failure to Thrive" 
(NFTT). The syndrome is the most 
frequent cause of infant weight delay 
in the United States. More common 
than malnutrition,it is found in one to 
five percent of all infants admitted to 
U.S. hospitals. NFTT children are six 
to 16 months old, have stopped gainins 
weight, and may have stopped growing 
in length and head size: they often ap-
pear scrawny and pale, may vomit ex-
cessively, show extreme lethargy, and 
many times display a wide-eyed stare 
researchers call "radar gaze." 

Early 
researchers believed 
that 
NFTT babies failed to grow as a result 
of parental neglect or emotional abuse. 
Later findings, however, suggest the 
babies may be inherently difficult. 
They may cry too much, or may be 
difficult to feed and cuddle, thus con-
tributing to the stressful relationship 
between mother and baby. 



**Title: Nonorganic Failure to Thrive**
**Author: Tom Feigelson**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Woolston is studying the complex 
interaction of biological, social and 
psychological factors in the syndrome. 
What particular family situations pro-
duce these children, and can they be 
anticipated? Does the genetic 
predisposition of the baby matter, or 
can any baby be driven to arrested 
growth? Can NFTr be recognized 
bifore it produces the dangerous symp-tom of growth failure? 
"They're all good questions," 
Woolston laughs. "But they're a little 
premature." The first task, he ex-
plains, is to improve diagnosis. "We 
want to be able to distingush it from 
organic illnesses on positive grounds." 
P resently NFTr is diagnosed "by ex-
clusion," when no other disorder can 
be found. 


The problem of better diagnosis has 
been a central concern of NFTr 
research for years. What is special 
about Woolston's research is its com-
prehen sive "team" approach. Coor-
dinating a group of 16 specialists, in-
cluding physicians, psychologists, a 
social worker, a nutritionist and video 
technicians, Woolston leads a total in-
teractivist attack on a thoroughly in-
teractive problem. 


Though the research is still in an ex-
ploratory stage, the early results are in-
triguing. By videotaping the mothers 
playing with their babies, Woolston has 
started to expand the theory of a 
previous researcher who believed that 
NFTr infants prefer playing at a 
distance instead of the intimate cuddl-
ing preferred by most babies. When 
picked up and cuddled, some NFTT 
infants will arch their backs and hold 
stiffiy away from the mother, rather 
than rest easily on her shoulder. 


Woolston thinks this difficulty with in-
timacy may reinforce the child's failure 
to thrive by making feeding time un-
comfortable and thus preventing nor-
mal food absorption. Woolston has also 
begun to find that the infants will avoid 
intimate contact more strenuously with 
their own mothers than with hosptial 
nurses. What is the mother doing to 
earn this rejection? What emotional 
message is she transmitting? 


The family evaluation has begun to 
show that many of the mothers were 
raised in non-supportive, non-
nurturing environments, and they still 
often feel isolated and depressed. A 
majority of them have an extremely 
low opinion of their failing child. 


Often, the child was an accident, or 
unwelcome at birth; it's turning out 
'difficult' seems to have brought out the 
worst in the mother's anxieties. Some 
mothers think their child is ill or 
retarded, and feel disappointment and 
pity for it. Others think their child is 
"bad" and feel intense hostility toward 
it. 


The mothers are referred to Yale-
New H aven Hospital by pediatricians 
throughout Connecticut. When their 
infants are diagnosed for NFTr, they 
"react strongly," said Sylvia Laivetes, 
social worker on the Woolston team. 
"Some feel guilty and frightened at 
their inability to help their baby, and 
frequently 
they're 
glad for the 
hospital's help." Other mothers, 
Laivetes explains, including a surpris-
ing number who deny that their babies 
have any problem at all, feel anger or 
resentment and will vehemently object 
to the diagnosis of NF'IT because it 
seems to imply that they are at fault for 
the illness. 


Woolston sympathizes with the 
mothers' predicament, but he denies 
emphatically that there is anything 
malicious in the hospital's diagnosis: 
"It is not our thesis that the mothers are 
bad people," he says. "That notion is 
antithetical to everything we do, both 
diagnostically and therapeuticaJly." 


Some mothers of NF'IT babies have 
neglected their children, and many 
simply do not know how to care for 
them. Treatment for NFTT therefore 
involves not only hospitalizing the in-
fant for close observation, feeding and 
care, but teaching the mother how to 
provide that care. "Often the child has 
very special needs," Laivetes says. 
•society tells you it's easy to bring up a 
baby. You feed it, you sleep it, and it'll 
grow. Sometimes it just doesn't happen 
that naturally." 


Even for mothers who believe their 
babies will benefit from the treatment, 
consenting to the hospital protocol is 
often difficult. Woolston comments, 
"The hospital is a double-edged sword 
for them. If the treatment doesn't work 
then it's just another frustration, and a 
waste of their time. On the other hand, 
if the treatment W<JTics, if the child starts 
doing well in this strange environment 
and with these strange nurses where he 
would not do well at home, they feel 
terribly guilty. They take it as proof 
that they are bad mothers." 


It may be, however, that mothering 
is only part-and not the most impor· 
tant part-of the problem. Woolston 
has observed from others' research that 
the infants show a lowered level of the 
hormone 'cortisol'- a condition also 
found in adults with severe depression. 
Woolston suggests that NFIT babies 
may be suffering from a form of"infan· 
tile depression." The depression may 
be in part geneticilly;based, and may 
affect growth directly, or by exacer· 
bating the baby's relationship with his 
mother. 


But until doctors better understand 
the causes of the syndrome, effective 
treatment will remain difficult, 
Woolston says. Many babies now 
treated in the hospital must return for 
recurrences of growth failure and other 
developmental problems. "At the mo· 
ment, prognosis is pretty poor. But 
that is really not so surprising. Right 
now it's a little bit like medicine was in 
the 18th century. Diagnosis is so slow 
and sometimes confusing." 


Follow-up after hospitilization is im· 
portant to both research and treat· 
ment. "It is essential that the mother 
and baby get encouragement and rein· 
forcement if they've begun to thrive," · 
Laivetes said. "And if they haven't, we 
do need to keep an eye on them." The 
babies and their mothers are put under 
the close supervision of a local pediatri-
cian, and asked to return to the 
hospital for periodic check-ups. 


The active follow-up of the 
Woolston team is just another example 
of the thoroughness of their approach. 
Woolston sees it as "a prototype of how 
research in child psychiatry will need 
to be" in the future. "I think this will be 
a model of how all the different levels, 
ranging from the molecular to the 
psychosocial, interact in this stage of 
human development." 


**Title: Long Memory: The Black Experience in America**
**Author: Saral't MendetSon/The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 45**

Books ____ __ 
Reinterpretation 
by remembrance 
Kathleen Cleaver 
Saral't MendetSon/The New Journal 
J ohn Blassingame 
Long Memory: The Black Experience in 
America 
by Mary Frances Berry & John W. 
~lassingame 
1982 Oxford University Press 486 pp. 
John Blassingame, Chairman of Afro 
American Studies Program and Pro-
fessor of Southern History, never 
believed that the traditional historical 
narrative, with its dry rendition of 
facts had much relation to reality. In-
stead, he feels that the best way to con-
vey the meaning of Afro American 
History is to exa ... ; •• e the dominant ex-
periences from slavery up to the pres-
ent. In Long M emory, the new survey of 
black history, he and Mary Frances 
Berry, Professor of History and Law at 
Howard University, 
have selected 
"those themes and 
subjects 
most 
revealing of the complexities of the 
black experience" for 'an integrated 
presentation across time instead of a 
comprehensive chronology of black 
history. This approach has led the 
authors to include topics usually absent 
from historical texts, and to draw con-
clusions which have a different em-
phasis 
from 
those of traditional 
scholarship. 


Memory and the transmission of ex-
perience from generation to generation 
have played a powerful role in the sur-
vival of blacks in America, the authors 
say. They contend that every genera-
tion has built upon the lessons the 
preceding ones learned about Africa, 
oppression, protest, sexual exploita-
tion, education, racial solidarity, the 
family and the church. Long M emory is 
composed of richly detailed essays that 
elaborate these fundamental themes. 


The authors consider Africa and the 
slave experience "central 
to an 
understanding of the American past." 
They compare West African 
an d 
American slavery and show that the 
adjustments Africans made to slavery 
in the New World stem from their 
West African cultural origins. Blass-
ingame and Berry view the Americas 
as "an outpost of West African culture 
between the 
sixteenth and 
mid-
nineteenth century." What has shaped 
Afro Americans into a distinctive peo-
ple is their African memory, whose im-
print upon speech, dress, literature, 
medicine, cooking, music and religion 
has prevented American culture from 
becoming a pallid imitation of Europe. 


Afro American history is seen as a mir-
ror of the history of the other citizens of 
the United States, reflecting the social, 
economic and political structure in 
which they have been enmeshed. 


Long Memory shows how certain 
features of plantation slavery were 
shaped by the Africans' reactions. For 
example, 
~lassingame interprets the 
extensive evidence of the slaves' brutal 
punishments as the conseq uence of 
their persistent forms of resistance. 
Such harsh coercion, he points out, 
would have been unnecessary for the 
loyal, docile work force of grinning 
Sambos conventional history has por-
trayed. There is a qualitative dif-
ference, Blassingame emphasizes, be-
tween choosing survival over suicide 
and having a docile attitude- a dif-
ference 
traditional scholarship has 
neglected to discern. 


Blassingame and Berry do not ac-
cept the conventional view that slavery 
has caused extreme disintegration in 
black social life. They find that an 
amazing degree of social cohesion and 
stability remained through the endu r-
ing interaction between the chu rch and 
the family. This lasted both during and 
after slavery, despite the formidable 
legal, cultural and economic obstacles. 
They examine the factors which con-
tributed to family disintegration and to 
family stability in different epochs and 



**Long Memory: Black Life and Culture in the Old South**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Black oppression has nurtured an Ideal medium for the propagation of a deformed historiography entwined with myth and prejudice.


YALE settings. Long Memory credits the family and the church with providing a shelter from racism, segregation and exploitation, and laying down a foundation for communal strength, personal identity and individual triumph. The writers found evidence that many blacks led creative, rewarding lives filled with joys and hopes as well as pain and despair. They trace the growth of the independent black church, always a multipurpose and socially active body, and show how in the nineteenth century, it planted the seeds of the 1960s civil rights movement. The ministers, who became both political and religious leaders of their race, established the tradition that men such as Adam Clayton Powell and Martin Luther King fulfilled in our day.

Few surveys of black history devote as much attention as Long Memory to the participation of blacks in the military. An excellent essay, filled with rarely published detail, examines the paradoxical role of the black soldier from the Revolutionary War to Vietnam.

White racist discrimination emerges during every war, despite the blacks' bravery and willingness to die, and the widespread ambivalence blacks exhibited toward fighting America's battles. The crushing irony of the black soldier who fulfills his duty as a citizen on the battlefield only to be denied its fruits as a civilian is a recurrent theme. The authors go on to analyze the distinctive motives behind the black soldier's desire to fight. They also document rampant interracial conflict in American armies, and give special attention to the extraordinary proportions this reached during the Vietnam War.

Another dominant theme of black history Long Memory analyzes is the powerful nexus between the puritanical sexual mythology promoted by whites and the aggressively violent oppression of blacks. This link lies at the root of some of the most barbaric treatments of blacks in America, such as the savage mutilations white Southerners have committed on the burned bodies of lynched black men. Anecdotes, articles, police and court records illustrate the sexual taboo used to perpetuate the social and economic subjugation of blacks. Blassingame and Berry confront and expose the hypocritical reality cloaked behind white supremacist mythology: the flip-side of the vicious prohibition of sexual contact between black men and white women was the rampant sexual exploitation of black women by white men, and the active prevention of the examination of this reality. In 1887, for example, a Montgomery, Alabama newspaper editor commented on the increase of interracial sexual activity and wrote, "There is a secret to this thing, and we suspect it is in the growing appreciation of white Juliettes for colored Romeos." He was promptly run out of town. By exploring the bizarre consequences of rigidly imposed racial classifications and prohibitions against interracial marriage, Blassingame and Berry illuminate the evolution of many current black-white controversies.

Since the living contours of Afro American life are largely inaccessible by the conventional approach, Blassingame and Berry turned to a source neglected by most historians: the creative artist. Long Memory is filled with generous quotations from songs, poems, novels and plays which convey the existential quality of the era. The reproduction of numerous cartoons about black life adds a humorous touch to the lively narrative.

"The Economics of Hope and Despair" stands out as the most grim chapter in Long Memory. The precarious economic status of blacks is persistent--two years after Emancipation 43 per cent of black families were still living in poverty. The essay explains the development of the caste system that keeps blacks fluctuating between "depression and great depression." The authors conclude that "it seems highly unlikely that the majority of blacks could advance in the United States by continuing to play the economic game as long as whites are playing with loaded dice."

Black oppression has nurtured an ideal medium for the propagation of a deformed historiography entwined with myth and prejudice. The painstaking research and evaluation these authors have conducted over the past ten years has enabled them to interpret the past differently. For example, Blassingame and Berry find resisting oppression and asserting racial pride a natural attempt to maintain dignity instead of pathologically deviant behavior.

Reading Long Memory gave me the impression that the raucous insistence upon black self-definition raised during the upheavals of the 1960s prompted, to some extent, their reassessment of the evidence and their search for better evidence. For Long Memory gives to that insistence a refined, scholarly, and coherent expression. The thematic presentation enables the reader to understand cultural and social cohesion blacks have maintained despite tremendously hostile conditions. It is a lively, engaging, and enlightening book which effectively restores balance to the portrayal of the Afro American past. It provides a comprehensive look at some of the ignored frames left on the cutting room floor of America's history and offers valuable insights into the sources of black strength and survival in white America.

Kathleen Cluwer, a junior in Calhoun, was interviewed in the December issue of The New Journal.



WHALLEY EXXON
SERVICE CENTER
COMPUTERIZED TUNE-UP • BALANCING • ALIGNMENT
BRUSHLESS CAR WASH
5% DISCOUNT AVAILABLE TO YALE
STUDENTS AND FACULTY WITH I.D.
FULL SERVICE
7 DAYS A WEEK
286 WHALLEY AVE.
Corner Sherman
New Haven, Ct.
865-6174


HIRING MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
TO WORK ON UNITED WAY
WOULD NOT BE EFFICIENT.
GETTING THEM TO WORK
FOR NOTHING IS.
Every year, a lot of big-hearted Americans contribute millions of hours doing everything from collecting money to deciding how it will be used in their local communities. So administrative costs are low.
United Way
works
And that's how United Way works. And why.
The New Journal / April 19, 1982
4-7


The members only sale
Sunday, April 25th,
1982 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
An additional
15% off
all women's
spring suits
• Free Refreshments
• Yale Singing Groups
Plus your patronage refund
(last year's was 6 %!)
15% is additional off
all existing markdowns
throughout the store!
15% IS ADDITIONAL OFF
ALL EXISTING MARKDOWNS
THROUGHOUT THE STORE!
* excepting only cigarettes, special orders, cameras, best seller books already discounted, & label records 10% off.
• Admission by membership card only.

