Publication date: April 22, 1988
Volume: 20
Issue number: 6


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Mary Chen
- Editor-in-Chief: Martha Brant
- Business Manager: Jodi Lox
- Managing Editors: Skye Wilson, Peter Zusi
- Designer: Jon Wertheimer
- Production Manager: David King
- Photography Editor: Heidi Schulman
- Associate Business Manager: Pamela Weber
- Associate Designer: Pamela Geismar
- Associate Photography Editor: Ann Light
- National Sales Manager: Laura Smith
- Circulation Manager: Malaika Amon


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Letters
- Between the Vines
- The First Yale Unit, A Story of Naval Aviation
- Cool Reception - Vance Hamplemon
- A Flying Start - John Gill
- Exploding the Canon - Erin Kelly
- Moments of Contact - Jennifer Fleissner
- Books
- Afterthought
- On Pride in Prejudice - Jamie Workman
- To Thailand and Back - Tom August


**Title: [These days it's more important than ever to plan your financial future the best way you know how.]**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): [2]**

These days it's more important than ever 
to plan your financial future the best way 
you know how. We're a family of financial 
companies that can help you make the 
most of your money. 

If you'd like to know more about how 
MONY can work for you, or how you can 
work for MONY, contact: 
Terrance Clune, CLU 
300 Collingswood Avenue 
Fairfield, Connecticut 06432


**Title: The Senior Class Council of the Class of 1988**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Senior Class Council 
of the 
Class of 1988 
is pleased to announce 
PROFESSOR 
STEVEN .t. GOUL:D, 
Harvard University 
CLASS DAY CEREMONY, MAY 29, 1988 
2:30p.m. Old Campus 
(2 MINUTES FROM YALE) 


**Title: In Appreciation**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 5**

The Ntw journal encourages letters to 
the editor and comment on Yale and 
New Haven issues. Write to Martha 
Brant, Editorials, 686 Yale Station, 
New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for 
publication must include address and 
signature. Tht Ntwjoumal reserves the 
right to edit all letters for publication. 
In Appreciation 
As Commencement approaches, The Ntw 
journal wishes 
to 
acknowledge 
the 
important contributions made to the 
magazine by members of the Class of 
1988. We extend our thanks to James 
Bennet, Carter Brooks, Norman Dong, 
Pearl Hu, Susan Orenstein, Jennifer 
Sachs, John Stella, Daniel Waterman, Stu 
Weinzimer and Grace White for all their 
hard work, talent and enthusiasm. Their 
dedication has shaped The Ntwjoi.ITTUll. We 
are grateful for the time and energy that 
they devoted to the magazine, and we wish 
them the best of luck in their future 
endeavors. 


**Title: The New Journal thanks**

The New Journal thanks 
Andrea Assarat 
Ethan Cohen 
Silva Darbinian 
Norman Don~ 
Anthony E'' in~ 
Vance Hampleman 
julie Hantman 
Stephen Hooper 
Anna Kreiner 
Motoko Rich 
David Rosenbaum 
Stron({-Cohen Craphi< Desi~n 
Tom Strong 
Wolfgang 


**Title: Congratulations**

Congratulations 
Tht Ntw.fouma/ is pleased to announce 
the election of .Jodi Lox as Business 
Manager and Pamela Geismar as De-
signer . .Jodi joined the magazine in 
1987 and has served as Associate 
Business Manager this term. Pamda 
also joined the magazine in 1987 and 
has served as Associate Designer this 
year . .Jodi and Pamela will continue 
the leadership of graduating Business 
Manager Norman Dong and Designer 
.Jon Wertheimer . .Jodi will assume full 
responsibility as Business Manager in 
May and Pamela will take over as 
Designer for our September issue. 'vVe 
congratulate them and wish them the 
best of luck. 


**Title: Corrections**

Corrections 
Tht Ntw Journal would like to give 
credit to .Jacyong So for the drawings 
accompanying "The Primary Ambi-
tion of Irwin Zucker" in our March 4 
issue. T he credits for his graphics were 
inadvertently omitted. 


!GOLDE 
THREAD 
BOOKSELLERS 
915 State Street 
New Haven, CT 06511 
(203) 777-7807 
New Haven'• 
feminist bookstore 
• fiction 
• theory 
• history & biography 
• poetry 
• health 
• spirituality 
• Third World & 
Jewish Studies 
• lesbian & gay studies 
• and much more ... 
plus 
• records & tapes 
• unusual cards 
Tuesday-Sanml~ 11-6 
SuM.y 
15 
doMe! Monday 
(Sunday & Moncl4y in the summft) 
Stumble upon 
J _At'" the 
· _Unexpected 
918 Whalky Al'e. 
The New joumaVApril 22, 1988 5 


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Nance Hampleman**
**Page number(s): 6**

Between the VinesNance Hampleman 
\- . ' 
. ~ .::=-_. 
-
~ ... ----
\ -.· 
~ ...... 
Cool Reception 
My first day at Yale found me standing 
in front of my residential college gates, 
baggage in hand, trapped outside with-
out a key. I noticed a number scrawled 
on a piece of white paper near the top 
of the gate. "Need room keys?" the sign 
asked. It was the first instruction for 
moving in that I had seen. I called the 
number. No one was there. 

I turned to my first acquaintance at 
Yale, the student who had given me a 
ride from the train station. He shook 
my hand and smiled sympathetically. 
"One thing you'll learn really quick is 
6 The New JournaVApril 22, 1988 
that you transfers are not a top priority 
with the administration," he said. 
"Once you're here, you're pretty much 
on your own." 

Three hours later, a reticent am-
bassador of Yale handed me my keys. 
My troubled arrival was hardly the 
triumphant entrance into Yale I had 
envisioned. There was no welcome, no 
throng of other incoming students, no 
counselor to answer questions or to 
help me settle in. If I had been a 
freshman, I would have jumped back 
on the train and headed home. But by 
,/ 
I 
Transfers come to 
Yale with a focus that 
only comes from 
trying something and 
failing- or having it 
fail you. 



**Title: From MIT to Yale: A Transfer Student's Perspective**
**Author: Vance Hamplnnan**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
last January, I had already completed 
three terms of college. Entering Yale as 
a second-semester sophomore, I could 
not turn back. I stood in front of those 
closed gates having already shut the 
door on my previous school. 

I left the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology (MIT) in Cambridge at 
the end of last year in order to escape 
the stress and a frighteningly narrow 
education. MIT's presentation in my 
hometown of Wichita, Kansas had 
assured me that the school offered the 
best of both worlds- the most skilled 
scientific minds and first-rate facilitie: 
coupled with a strong humanities de-
partment and a well-rounded student 
body. This balanced approach ap-
pealed to me. Although I wanted to 
study physics and engineer.ing, I also 
sought an environment that fostered 
creativity and an ample exchange of 
ideas. But it took less than a)nonth for 
MIT to shatter this carefully crafted 
illusion, 
the naive notion that a 
technical school can provide a com-
plete education. 

MIT trains its students to be tal-
ented physicists, computer scientists, 
or engineers. It doesn't teach them how 
to think, feel, or interact with people. 
At MIT it is fashionable to wear 
t-shirts emblazoned with "IHTFP" (I 
Hate This Fucking Place). It has one of 
the highest suicide rates in the coun-
try-six people killed themselves my 
year. Most students stay up all night 
twice a week, every week, to get prob-
lem sets done. Of the 13 men in my 
fraternity pledge class, three have left 
MIT. Of the ten that remain, two have 
developed drinking problems, and at 
least one sees a psychiatrist regularly. 
When I decided to transfer out, many 
of my fraternity brothers told me they 
wished they had done the same. For 
them, being only a year or two away 
from the coveted "brass rat" (the MIT 
class ring with the beaver mascot), 
they had already endured too much to 
turn back. But with only one year 
invested, and three more ahead, I had 
to leave. Yale offered the education 
and challenge that I wanted. Since my 
arrival, 
I have enjoyed just how 
relaxed it is here. 

That year, however, did not go to 
waste. Unlike the freshmen arriving at 
Phelps Gate in the fall, transfers come 
to Yale with a focus that only comes 
from trying something and failing-or 
having it fail you. Because transfers 
have already attended college some-
where else, they know what to embrace 
and what to avoid, both in academics 
and extra-curriculars. A lot of them 
are older, having taken time off from 
school to work, travel, or serve in the 
military. Their experience in making 
transitions facilitates their adjustment. 
When I arrived at Yale, I had al-
ready lived through that nervous first 
week away from home, the excitement 
of meeting classmates, the flurry of 
activity before classes begin. No longer 
was college a strange new environment 
where I suddenly had an accent, pop 
was soda, and beer was sold at package 
stores. 

At my new school, I would share the


**Yale's Flying History**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When David Ingalls '36 came home from Yale's activities represent only the most recent contribution to a tradition of aviation at Yale.  Since inception of Yale's first flying club in 1910, the University has had no fewer than seven aeronautical organizations. While some of these clubs have had a negligible impact on even the Yale community, others have influenced aviation throughout the country, making national headlines. All told, Yale had some form of flying organization, either sanctioned or opposed by the University, in 57 of the last 78 years.


Even before they were able to get their hands on an aircraft, Yale students devoted themselves to the emerging science of aeronautics. In 1910, for members of the Yale Aero Club, model airplanes were serious business. Materials for the construction of model monoplanes and were available to club members at University Repair shop, and students worked for weeks to perfect their model gliders in the hopes of winning the college competition. At the first "Exhibit of Air Contrivances," the winning model monoplane traveled a distance of 85 feet, 4 inches, before settling to the floor of the Yale Gymnasium.

The club led an active existence for three years before its operations dwindled to dilettantism. "'The time is coming when a knowledge of flying will be as much a part of an American gentleman's accomplishments as golf or automobiling," the club's president told a Yale Daily News reporter in 1913. By the following year, Yale's first aero club was defunct.


While it lasted, the Yale Aero Club allowed its members to fly its newly acquired glider and also arranged the first aviation exhibition sponsored solely by a college aeronautical organization. In a two-day program in May 1911, hundreds of spectators paid a dollar a head to watch two expert aviators perform stunts over the old Yale Field. Among other tricks, one pilot tossed baseballs from his Curtiss biplane to the catcher of the Yale baseball team. The plane's speed of over 50 miles per hour and altitude of 500 feet made catching the projectiles a difficult task, even for the otherwise capable athlete.

The program for the second day included an event that the Yale Daily News depicted as a dramatization of science fiction, "a representation of how two aeroplanes would fight in the air, as described in H.G. Wells' novel The War of the Worlds." The newspaper's description of the mock-dogfight reflected the nation's general disregard for the crucial role air combat would play in a modern war. Even for most of the country's admirals and generals, aerial warfare belonged primarily to the imagination, not to the military, although World War One lay just over three years away. Only seven years would elapse before the first American airman would die in combat, a 24-year-old Yale Aero Club alumnus who was shot down over the North Sea.


With the advent of war in Europe, interest in aeronautics at Yale flourished and ultimately became the backbone of naval aviation in the United States. In the summer of 1916, almost a full year before the United States' entry into the Great War, a group of ambitious Yale undergraduates banded together to learn how to fly a hydroplane. The students, who came to be known as the First Yale Unit, hoped to contribute to the United States' inevitable involvement in the European conflict. When President Woodrow Wilson finally ended his policy of isolation and declared war on Germany in April 1917, the Navy could claim a meager 22 seaplanes and 38 qualified pilots as its aviation force. Four months later, when the First Yale Unit completed its training, its six planes and 26 aviators bolstered the Navy's air power considerably. At the end of the war, the remarkable achievements of the unit inspired Historian Ralph D. Paine to compile a definitive history of the unit's exploits, The First Yale Unit, A Story of Naval Aviation.


As Paine describes, the First Yale Unit began as the brain child of F. Trubee Davison, a Yale sophomore who joined the American Ambulance Field Service for the summer of 1915. While driving an ambulance in France, Davison met aviators who had seen battle. Their descriptions of the excitement and potential of air power appealed immediately to his sense of adventure. The following July, Davison secured the financial support of his father, a partner in the wealthy Wall Street firm, J. P. Morgan & Co. Armed with a letter of introduction from an influential family friend, the younger Davison set off for Washington to ask the Secretary of the Navy whether he might enlist a group of Yale students as a reserve unit. The Secretary was impressed with Davison's initiative; but lacking sufficient funds from Congress, the Navy was unable to establish even the most rudimentary Naval Reserve Flying Corps. Any aviation training on the part of Davison and his friends would have to be privately financed. Both Trubee Davison and his father felt certain that the United States would be in desperate need of pilots if war were declared, and they pushed on with their plans for the private training of the Yale unit. Trubee's father leased an air station in Port Washington, Long Island, while Trubee sent off telegrams to the men he had selected as his fellow aviators. "Yale was a small place in those days," says Trubee's son, Daniel Davison (DC '49). "Dad knew everybody in his class. These were all people he had played around with- a lot of them were football players, and there were a lot of senior society types. It was really a clubby little outfit they had there." Within a couple of weeks, the 12 original members of the First Yale Unit had set up camp in the rooms of the Davison estate, a short drive from the air station. Flight training began immediately.


At the beginning of their training, the student aviators had only one flying-boat at their disposal, an aeronautical jalopy called Mary Ann, which Trubee's father and uncle soon supplemented with two additional planes. John Farwell III ('18), the only member of the unit still living, remembers the flying-boats as highly unstable machines. Although Farwell's speech is often garbled, his memories are still lucid, down to the most minute detail. "They were very crude boats, not planes," he recalls. "They had a great heavy weight on the bottom, and we guessed it would take a thousand feet to get out of a tailspin, but at that time nobody knew much about the aircraft at all." Most modern airplanes are well-balanced and rarely go into what aviators call a "graveyard spin." "The F-boat took off at 4-8 miles an hour, and she had a top speed of about 55," Farwell adds. "So you couldn't afford to make many mistakes, could you?" Today, YA's slowest plane



**Title: The First Yale Unit**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
cruises at 110 miles per hour. 

Along with the air station came the 
services of its experienced instructor 
and mechanic, Dave McCulloch, who 
had flown earlier in the war with the 
Royal Air Force of Italy. "McCulloch 
was a very fine man, but he sure liked 
to sleep as long as he could," Farwell 
says, giggling. "One time I got up early 
to go flying, drove out to the air sta-
tion, and he was still eating his 
breakfast, so he took his meal with him 
into the plane. He had his coffee in a 
seltzer bottle or something. I was 
flying the plane, and as I took off, his 
coffee and milk just sprayed all over his 
face and shoulders. He was a very 
bright man, and I'll tell you, he surely 
never made that same mistake twice." 

In addition to teaching his students 
how to pilot the flying-boats, McCul-
loch took care to acquaint the unit with 
the technical intricacies of the aircraft. 
Since there were only two-mechanics at 
Port Washington, the students had to 
learn how to overhaul engines and do 
repair work if they wanted to fly. The 
mechanical skills they acquired would 
later prove invaluable to the Navy. 

During the fall term of 1916, the 
Navy invited the Yale unit to move its 
flying-boats to the submarine base at 
New London. The students continued 
to practice flying as much as their 
studies would allow, and one Sunday, 
Davison and Farwell caused quite a 
stir on campus when they dropped in 
by hydroplane in time for chapel. 

When the United States severed 
diplomatic relations with Germany in 
February, the First Yale Unit more 
than doubled its roster to a total of 29 
men. Congress had finally passed the 
Naval Appropriations Bill, and in 
March, the unit became the first 
detachment of the United States Naval 
Reserve Flying Corps. Davison and 
seven others became commissioned 
officers. With resources for aviation 
still scarce, the Navy could provide the 
unit with no more than a commanding 
officer, a few mechanics, and some 
machine guns. The rest of the 
operation, air station included, 
"Flying will be as much 
a part of an American 
gentleman's 
accomplishments as 
golf or automobiling." 
continued to be financed privately. 
J . P. Morgan & Co. contributed 
$100,000 to the cause, and in a matter 
of days the unit had raised an 
additional $146,000 through private 
donations. According to Paine, the 
funds amassed were "enough to startle 
the Navy Department which, until 
1916, had been unable to obtain from 
Congress any separate appropriations 
for aviation whatever, and then only to 
the amount of $1,000,000." Although 
the unit used most of its enormous 
budget to purchase more aircraft and 
equipment, military life had its little 
luxuries. During its training period, 
the unit paid $1,549 for "laundry & 
valet expenses." 

The unit left Yale mid-semester in 
1917, training in West Palm Beach for 
the winter months, and then relocating 
in Huntington, Long Island. By the 
end of July, all of the unit had had 
sufficient flying time to take the naval 
qualifying test for aviators. The first 
portion of the test required each pilot 
to land his aircraft within 300 feet of a 
This Curtiss R-6 biplane looks sleek compared with the earlv flvinl!"-boats of the First Yale Unit. 
The New JournaVApril 22, 1988 13 


buoy. "First we had to fly up to about 
5,000 feet," Farwell explains. "Now 
that's not very high, is it? But back then 
it took an hour and a half." Farwell was 
one of the unit's 26 aviators who 
qualific:d to receive a Navy pilot's 
license. 

"When 
I 
took 
off," he 
continues, "the first thing I noticed was 
that there was gasoline on my seat, and 
I can tell you, that stuff sure bums. 
When I came in to land, I pointed 
right at the boat where all the Navy 
men were standing. I guess from their 
point of view it looked like I was going 
to land right on top of them, and they 
were all yelling and getting ready to 
jump in the water. I was probably a 
good 75 feet off, but the F-boat's wing 
was about 50 feet long, so I guess that's 
close enough." 

During this same landing test, Tru-
bee Davison, suffering from fainting 
spells, made a 
slight error while 
maneuvering and plunged his machine 
headlong into the water. His flying-
boat split in two under the impact. 
As Farwell explains, "The engine in the 
F-boat was behind you. When Trubee 
crashed, the engine came over him. It 
didn't kill him, but it crippled him." 
Davison broke his back in the accident, 
becoming a paraplegic for life. 

Beginning in August, the Navy split 
up the First Yale Unit, sending its men 
to a variety of posts both overseas and 
in the United States. In the intro-
duction to Paine's book, Navy Rear 
Admiral William Sims notes that with 
qualified aviators at a premium, the 
Navy used 
the comprehensively 
trained men of the unit as "a nucleus 
for the training of an air force at 
home." Having left Yale only six 
months before, the members of the 
unit took up positions as instructors 
and commanders of air stations. 
F.arwell was sent to Buffalo, where 
he was responsible for training an 
additional 12 
Yale students, the 
Second Yale Unit. In November, the 
Navy reassigned Farwell to Pensacola 
as an instructor, along with six 
members of the Second Yale Unit who 
had qualified as aviators under his 
guidance. "The man in charge at 
Pensacola could get the plane off the 
In 1936, Bill Slaymaker (SY '38) considered his Fairchild aircraft a "nifty 
job." 
14 The New Journal/ April 22. 1988 
ground and land it, but in general, 
naval officers just didn't know 
anything about the machines them-
selves," Farwell says. "We did all the 
legwork. When we got there, they had 
96 planes, but only 16 could fly. When 
we left, they still had 96 planes, but 
only 16 couldn't fly." The situation was 
similar at other air stations all over the 
United States. "Wherever the boys 
from the First Yale Unit went," Farwell 
adds, "they might have had a naval 
officer over them, but they knew more 
than the naval officer knew-there was 
no comparison." 

The First Yale Unit performed pro-
digiously in the war. All but six of its 
men saw active duty in Europe; three 
were killed in action. Five won the 
Navy Cross for conspicuous gallantry, 
and three received the Distinguished 
Service Medal. Two were awarded the 
British Flying Cross, ten the French 
Croix de Guerre, four the Belgian Croix de 
Guerre. One, David Ingalls, who had 
left Yale after his freshman year, 
became the Navy's only "air ace," 
shooting down at least five enemy 
aircraft. 

Some of the unit used their war 
experience 
as 
a 
springboard 
to 
positions of greater responsibility in 
government service. Ingalls and one 
other member of the unit later became 
Assistant Secretary of the Navy for 
Air. Two more of the unit, one of them 
Davison, held the post of Assistant 
Secretary of War for Air. And perhaps 
the most successful member of the 
unit, Robert Lovett, became George 
C . Marshall's Undersecretary of State 
during the implementation of the 
Marshall Plan and succeeded Marshall 
as Secretary of Defense. 


**Title: Yale and Aviation**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

In the fall of 1919, a year after the 
signing of the armistice, war veterans 
flooded the Yale campus. Of these, 
about 50 had flown in the Army, 
Navy, or Marine Corps branches of 
aviation. In January, these veteran 
pilots formed the Yale Aeronautical 
Society and elected to its executive 
board two former members of the First 
Yale Unit, Ingalls and Harry Davison 
Jr. , Trubee's younger brother. The 
society wasted no time in entering the 


During World War Two, over 3,000 Air Force cadets moved into Yale. 
first Intercollegiate Flying Meet ever. 
Before a crowd of more than fifteen 
hundred, Yale won t~e 25-mile air 
race, the main event of the contest, 
edging out the University of Penn-
sylvania by a mere ten s~onds. One of 
the pilots in the victorious airplane was 
Juan T. Trippe ('20), Secretary of both 
the Yale Aeronautical Society and the 
Intercollegiate Flying Association. 

After leaving Yale, Trippe combined 
his administrative and aeronautical 
expertise to found Pan American 
Airways. 

When the representatives of the Yale 
flying club returned to campus with 
their first-place trophy, the University 
refused to place their cup among those 
collected by the other athletic teams. 
Popular wisdom at the time suggested 
that recreational flying was aristocratic 
suicide. Without university support, 
the club soon died out. 

In 1927, the year that Charles 
Lindbergh made his famous Atlantic 
crossing, interest in aviation grew 
markedly on the Yale campus, in-
spiring students to organize the Yale 
Aeronautical Society. Remembering 
the previous dub's conflict with the 
administration, the new society chose 
to focus on the innocuous pastimes of 
research and education. This flying 
club, strictly speaking, was not a flying 
club. 

The Yale Aeronautical Society's 
emphasis on research made an impact 
on aviation outside of the University. 
When the municipal body responsible 
for 
investigating possible 
New 
Haven airport sites postponed 
action 
two 
years, 
the 
society took the mttlative and 
recommended an appropriate location. 
The group conducted an extensive 
survey of land around New Haven and 
meticulously compared the conditions 
and costs of the 17 most important 
landing fields in the United States. 
Although the New Haven Air Board 
rejected the particular site that the 
society recommended, the aviation 
club stimulated interest in the 
construction of an airport in New 
Haven. 

The most recognized effort of the 
Yale Aeronautical Society came in 
October 1928, when delegates from all 
over the country flocked to New 
Haven for the first Intercollegiate 
Aviation Conference. The convention, 
which lasted three days, included 
presentations from a U.S. Senator, the 
Aeronautics, and world-famous avia-
trix Amelia Earhart. 
F. 
Trubee 
Davison, Assistant Secretary of War, 
sent a telegram of congratulations. 
The conference helped legitimize 
college clubs throughout the country. 


**Title: Yale's Flying History**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Third generation David Ingalls (PC '88): "It's not like driving a car."
One of the last society presidents, 
Charles Morris ('32), left Yale after his 
sophomore year to get married, but he 
took his dedication to aeronautics with 
him. Only two years out of Yale, in 
1931, he became Connecticut State 
Aviation Commissioner, a post he 
filled for ten years before joining the 
Sikorsky company as chief test pilot for 
early versions of the helicopter. "It was 
while I was flying for Mr. Sikorsky 
that we really broke through the 
barrier and discovered we had a flying 
machine," Morris recalls. "So you can 
see that the Yale Aeronautical Association really opened up some doors for 
me." Morris later wrote a book on the 
genesis of the helicopter.


Enthusiasm for aviation reemerged in 
1936, 
when 
sophomore 
Bill 
Slaymaker (SY '38) and a group of 
seven or eight friends decided one 
evening to try to organize an air meet. 
Slaymaker has kept an aviation scrapbook ever since those early days at 
Yale. His office, which takes up the 
portion of a bright red barn not 
occupied by his wife's race horse and 
two barn 
cats, 
overflows with 
memorabilia of a sportsman's life- a 
wild 
boar head, 
photographs of 
gargantuan fish, model biplanes. Red 
and yellow aircraft fly in all directions 
across the wallpaper in his bathroom. 
As one might expect, Slaymaker's 
aviation club emphasized the sporting 
aspect of aeronautics. Beginning in 
1937, the group flew in three annual 
intercollegiate 
meets, 
losing ignominiously to Harvard in the first two, 
but finally winning the trophy in 1939. 
Five colleges participated in the first 
contest, including Smith, whose sole 
representative gained the title "lone girl 
flyer" in a Yale Daily News headline. 
One event, called "paper strafing," 
required the pilots to throw a roll of 
toilet paper out of their cockpits and to 
cut it three times with their aircraft as 
the roll unfurled. "If you had a plane 
with an open cockpit, like my Fairchild, the best thing to do was throw it 
out at the top of a loop, so you could 
cut it for the first time on your way 
back," Slaymaker says, pronouncing 
his words with an unmistakable twang. 
"You could cut the darned thing with 
either your wing or your prop, but if 
you got it with the prop, it would really 
shred the toilet paper and not leave you 
much to cut the second time around." 
Although no one was ever seriously 


injured during Slaymaker's tenure, he 
and three friends did have a close call. 
"The day after the Hindenburg exploded, we flew out to see the wreck in 
Lakehurst, but we never got there," 
Slaymaker says. "We were flying over 
Long Island when the doggone prop 
fell off. Al Oiss, who was a darned 
good 
pilot, 
made an emergency 
landing in the infield of the Belmont 
Raceway." 
After the Japanese bombed Pearl 
Harbor in 1941, a handful of aviators 
from Slaymaker's club, most of them 
now graduates, enlisted individually in 
the Air Service. The club's best pilot, 
Fred Borsodi (TO '39), joined the 
Army Air Corps. "At first they made 
him a second lieutenant because he 
could fly, but when they found out 
what he could really do with an 
airplane, they made him a major," 
Slaymaker says. Borsodi completed 
130 
missions as a 
fighter 
primarily in the African and Italian 
theaters. In the last year of the war, 
Borsodi was killed flying an experimental plane in England. 
In addition 
to the 
individual 
wartime contributions of the Yale 
Aviation Club's pilots, the University 
itself allowed the Army Air Force 
Training Command School (AAFTC) 
to set up shop right on the Yale 
campus, prompting at least one Old 
Blue to complain that Yale had sold its 
soul to the military. Beginning in 
1943, the 3,000 cadets of AAFTC, the 
largest school for the training of 
technical officers in the Air Corps, 
took over one-half of the University's 
residential facilities and one-third of its 
classrooms. Living alongside Yale's 
2,700 undergraduates, a typical Army 
cadet roomed in an Old Campus 
dormitory, did calisthenics in the 
Payne Whitney Gymnasium, ate his 
meals in the Freshman Commons, and 
attended courses in aerial photography 
in the Hall of Graduate Studies. 
After World War Two, about 40 
undergraduates, both Air Corps war 
veterans and aviation novices, established Yale's sixth aeronautical club, 
Yale Aviation, Inc. The club took part 
in annual intercollegiate "fly-ins," 
competitions similar to those of the 
previous decade, but otherwise its 
commitments were quite informal. 
"After the war, people began to accept 
aviation as a reasonable way to get 
around," says Richard Mann (TD '49), 
co-founder of the club. "It was a lot of 
fun. You'd call up some babe from 
Smith and say: 'Hop in your plane, I'll 
meet you for lunch.'" The club continued to function until the late fifties, 
primarily as a sporting proposition.


"You'd call up some 
babe from Smith and 
say: 'Hop in your 
plane, I'll meet you 
for lunch.'"


The current campus flying club, 
Yale Aviation, appeared in 1964. Its 
founders have all had unusually eventful lives or deaths in aviation, 
reflecting the range of fortunes that 
have followed membership in Yale's 
aeronautical clubs. After leaving Yale, 
YA president Fred Smith (OE '66) went 
on to found Federal Express, an idea 
he had first proposed in an economics 
paper as an undergraduate. Howard 
Weaver (OE '45W), Yale President 
Kingman 
Brewster's 
assistant 
for 
external affairs and a World War Two 
bomber pilot, once walked away unharmed from the wreckage of an 
airplane whose fuel line had frozen 
over Massachusetts. Norwood Russell 
Hanson, 
a 
philosophy of science 
professor known for his ebullient 
personality, his passion for flying, and 
his unbridled arrogance, died in his 
aircraft in 1967, crashing into a 
mountain on his way to give a lecture 
at Cornell entitled "Flight Theory 
Within the History of Ideas." 
Throughout YA's early years, 
Hanson brought the club a good deal 
of free publicity, not all of it positive. 
During the 1965 football season, Hanson buzzed the Yale Bowl on four 
different occasions in his thunderous, 
five-ton Grumman Bearcat; clearing 
the heads of terrified football fans by


**Title: Yale's Flying Clubs**
**Author: John Gill**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
only 50 to 100 feet. "There were a 
couple of angry letters to the editor," 
laughs Hank Galpin (DC '67), YA's 
second president and a self-avowed fan 
of Hanson's. "His response was that 
Yale ought to see a great fighter plane 
flown by a great World War Two 
fighter pilot- and that was him." 
Hanson had won the Distinguished 
Flying Cross for completing 54 carrier-
based missions near Japan. He also 
conducted a one-plane, one-professor 
aerobatics show in his spare time in 
order to finance his monstrous aircraft. 
Due to, or perhaps despite the at-
tention which Hanson drew to the 
club, YA grew from one aircraft to 
three, and from 22 active members to 
60 in the course of three years. Since 
one of YA's charter members was an 
insider at Woodbridge Hall, support 
from the University was not long in 
coming. "President Brewster was a 
World War Two pilot himself," Galpin 
remembers. "So I'm sure he smiled 
favorably on the whole d~al." Today's 
incarnation of that same dub, which 
enjoys the full recognition of the 
administration, combines the eclectic 
pursuits of its predecessors with the 
more extensive resources now available. 
In addition to sponsoring speakers and 
offering discount 
flight 
rates, 
the 
organization promotes inexpensive 
overseas tours. 

In the 54 years separating the 
founding of the earliest and most re-
cent Yale aviation clubs, the science of 
aeronautics made extraordinary ad-
vances, but the basic allure of flying 
remained the same. Hanson's powerful 
Grumman Bearcat could climb to an 
altitude of 10,000 feet in just 81 
seconds, while Farwell's rickety Curtiss 
flying-boat would have taken three 
hours to cover the same distance. But 
for both men, as for David Ingalls, 
participation in a Yale flying club has 
always meant the opportunity for pilots 
to meet with others who can under-
stand the relaxing exhilaration of that 
constant, calm engine noise . 
• 
john Gill, a stnior in Timothy Dwight 
College, is on the staff of TN].


**Title: Exploding the Canon**
**Author: Erin Kelly**
**Page number(s): 21**

Samuel Coleridge had been dumped 
and wanted sympathy. "Oh, Lady." 
the poet moaned, "what can these avaiV 
to lift the smothering weight from my 
breast?" the class stared blankly at 
"Dejection: An Ode" on the Kinko's 
xerox. To his cries of"Lady" Coleridge 
received no answer. Frustrated by the 
silence, the professor leaned forward. 
"Don't you see, the poet takes a per-
sonal tragedy, and by putting it into 
traditional ode form, gives it uni-
versality." 

Coleridge's universality was aimed 
at a select few. For the women in this 
seminar, Coleridge's words did not 
inspire sympathy: Despite his cries of 
"Lady," the poem was obviously ad-
dressing men. The realization that 
accepted conceptions of the universal 
are in fact · exclusive has forced the 
academic community to reexamine the 
collection of Western writings known 
as the canon. The canon has tradi-
tionaUy been held to embody the 
deepest and most universal expres.sions 
of the human spirit. Today, incre.asing 
numbers of critics are exploring ways 
to redefme the canon, pointing out its 
biases. Though the canon has always 
been under revision, the current ex-
plosion of different voices may be the 
greatest conflict it has ever seen. 

The complex political and social 
questions that make up the debate 
affect students on an immediate level. 
These questions boil down to how we 
relate to what we read. What do we 
expect books to do for us, and how do 
we as students and professors insti-
tutionalize these expectations in the 
canon or, more concretely, a study of 
the humanities at Yale? 

Current focal points of the debate at 
Yale are the Directed Studies Program 
(OS) and the Humanities major. Both 
programs claim to provide grounding 
in the Western literary and philo-
sophical tradition. This year the 
42-year-old OS program faced a pro-
posal for revision, while the experi-
mental Humanities major received the 
stamp of tenure from the faculty in 
December. Within the Humanities 
major, dissent broke out last year in a 
seminar on Modernity. One work by a 
woman appeared on the syllabus- an 
eight-line poem by Emily Dickinson. 
"It was a kind of brewing hostility 
among us, especially on the part of the 
women," said Susan Epstein (SM '88). 
"We were frustrated with the limits ot 
the canon and its assumptions." 

After hearing students' concerns, the 
faculty of the Humanities major 
organized a symposium addressing the 
question of the outsider and the tra-
dition. Walter Cahn, professor of 
History of Art, spoke about teaching a 
course on cathedrals and being Jewish. 
Ralph Hexter, associate professor of 
Classics, talked about being gay and 
teaching the Medieval period, with its 
love poetry and church doctrine. And 
Patricia Joplin, assistant professor of 
English, spoke of the tensions of 
studying a masculine literary tradition. 
Joplin says it was "like 
a 
thundercloud" when she read Virginia 
Woolfs A Room of One's Own in a class 
at Hampshire College caUed "Looking 
Back Through Our Mothers" in 1972. 
"It became so obvious that in my own 
education I'd been asked to forget I 
was female. I read in a way that was 
male, and went along registering these 
shocks and insults that had not been 
addressed," she said. Joplin decided to 
make up for her patriarchical edu-
cation. She went out and found books 
by women. "I just bought them all, and 
began feeding myself, reading my way 
through them." 

Similar frustrations prompted a 
committee to study the problem of 
gender in the OS curriculum last year. 
Led by Assistant Professor of English 
Nancy Wright, the committee ob-
tained a $2,500 grant from the Ford 
Foundation. The resulting report 
found that, although OS has under-
gone structural changes since its 
establishment in 1946. "the cour-.es' 
syllabuses had remained fuced in their 



**Title:  Yale's Distributive Studies Program: A Debate on Tradition**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The assumption of a patriarchal perspective of Western culture." Outsiders such as women are usually saved for the last week of class, and inserted in such a haphazard way that, as Wright said, "no wonder no one believes they really belong to the tradition." The committee wanted to avoid tokenism by building in questions of gender and race from the beginning of the pro-gram. 

One proposal was to read the sonnets of Petrarch alongside those of his contemporary Louise Labe, who challenged the way Petrarch represented women in his poetry. Timothy Hampton, an assistant professor of French who teaches DS Literature, implemented this suggestion, and said the dialogue among the students and the two poets was exciting. "Most of my students ended up liking Labe better than Petrarch," he added. 

Although DS incorporated a few of the committee's suggestions, the proposal as a whole met rejection. The committee had wanted to read a slave narrative by Frederick Douglass alongside writings of Emerson, Whitman, and Dickinson. "We thought it was important for American students to read a slave narrative, and we thought it could help establish a background against which to read Toni Morrison's Beloved, an Afro-American work," said Wright. The other literature instructors rejected this as untraditional, and generally thought the proposal too revisionary. Hampton said that while he applauded many aspects of the proposal, the report went too far in attempting to "make DS a course about gender issues." Overall, Wright was disappointed by the prevailing opinion that "tradition is not something to be innovated upon." 

"The report was full of practical suggestions," said Cyrus Hamlin, professor of Comparative Literature, who has taught in and coordinated both DS and the Humanities major. Hamlin does not mind revising DS as long as the program retains its concentration on texts, not social history. "The whole point is to maintain a sense of center, with an occasional touch on the periphery," he said. But the definition of that center is exactly the problem. The question demands a critical examination of the political, social, and artistic biases that determine what is central and what is peripheral. Hamlin said that while it is necessary for peripheral voices to hear themselves reflected in what they read, part of the value of the humanities comes from "a confrontation with otherness and strangeness." Hamlin explained that DS starts with texts like the Bible and Homer because they are the hardest to relate to, because the perspective is so different. Yet the most influential books we read are those that balance between our own perspective and one that challenges us. Grabbing on to what we recognize in a text, we use that hold to grapple with questions that confound our vision. 

Hexter warns against the desire to see our reflection in what we read. "Affirmation can be very heady, but very dangerous," he said. "It's a very American democratic idea that everyone should find representation in the canon: People want the works they read to tell them something about themselves. This notion comes out of the romantic tradition- that literature must reflect who you are." Hexter says being gay doesn't keep him from appreciating the tradition. "I don't read to hear my own voice," he said. "I learn more from hearing different voices." 

Hexter is correct in pointing out the danger of self-affirmation. But most peripheral groups do not want to read their own literature simply in order to shake their fists and proclaim their own strength. Certainly, there is an element of pride involved, but more important is the desire to hear a new voice speak and have it be recognized. The DS History and Politics class, for example, studies 2,500 years of political thought without considering that women lived outside the economic and political power structures for most of this time. Testimony from a single voice creates monotonous history. 

Tension between outside and inside continually reshapes the canon. Hexter points out that a crisis in the canon occurred in the Roman Empire after Christianity became the state religion. People wondered how to read the classics, written from a heathen perspective. They solved the problem by reinterpreting them. Scholars devoted their efforts to explaining how Aristotle was consistent with Christianity.  They pulled the canon back into the center by seeing it in the light of their own ideology. 

Outsiders' attempts to widen the canon underlie its development. Dante, now a canonical figure, wrote his Divine Comedy in Italian to give expression to his native language within the Latin tradition. Although previous standards disdained the vernacular, Dante stretched their boundaries. His writing challenged the assumptions of the canon and induced change. Nancy Seybold (ES '88), a Humanities major, explained, "It's easy to say, 'yeah, I'm a woman, and none of these old farts were women.' But they had their own ways of being on the outside." The definitions of "outside" are not static. Although the outsiders have changed, feeling excluded is nothing new. 

But this does not invalidate the concerns of those on the fringe. They must wonder how they fit into the tradition that "forms the basis of Western culture," as the Yale College Programs of Study describes the Humanities major. Studying the Western tradition, women and minorities explore how the canon has categorized them, and how they might escape these imposed definitions. But such a way of reading becomes tiresome. It is difficult to find oneself always attacked or objectified. "It does something to you to spend four years reading things like John Donne discussing women as continents," said Carla Power (QE '88), an English ma-


**The Canon and the Marginalized**
**Author: Ann Kelly**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
jor. Reading a book requires aligning 
yourself with a point of view; when this 
point of view always places your own 
group in 
a 
submissive 
position, 
reading becomes masochistic. Looking 
on while your gender or ethnic group is 
continually maligned makes sociologtcal 
analysis, just as much as stoic silence, 
painful. 

Many suggest that marginal groups 
look into 
special 
programs like 
Women's 
Studies, 
Afro-American 
Studies, or Gay Studies, a program 
Hexter has helped set up. Such pro-
grams have great value because they 
focus on peripheral voices, but their 
existence should not obscure the issues 
that the canon needs to examine. An 
Afro-American Studies department 
does not relieve the English depart-
ment from considering questions of 
race. Further, the notion that certain 
parts of humankind need to enroll in 
their own specialized programs denies 
the possibility of a tradition which 
embodies a common human heri-
tage-once a fundamental assumption 
of the humanities. 

Perhaps this 
possibility died long ago, but a means 
for dialogue between these groups 
remains essential. As Hexter observes, 
"Our only safety is in the play between 
the different perspectives. Whatever 
truth there is will be found slipping 
between the planes." 

Study of the humanities should in-
clude such dialogue. Critical reading 
of the canon is not a reverent cele-
bration of the books that make human-
ity great- it is a dynamic and often 
personal confrontation. Seybold 
believes this challenge motivates many 
Humanities majors. She noted that 
only a small percentage of the major is 
mad<· up nf ''hilt·. Chri,tian malt•, 
-the group toward which the canon 
has traditionally aimed. "I think maybe 
if the question of the canon doesn't 
bother you, you study something else. 
I feel like Pve got to deal with it. We're 
not all canon-lovers, but you've got to 
study something to know how to 
change it." 

• 
Enn Ktlly, a stnior in Davmport, is on tht 
staff of TN] .


**Understanding Autism**
**Author: Kara Weeks**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

A boy sits in a park under the watchful 
eye of a middle-aged man. Gradually, 
the child becomes agitated. He moans, 
waving his arms in the air frantically. 
The man leaps up, grabs the boy, and 
forces his arms down, but the child 
continues to thrash about. A passing 
stranger looks 
on, 
horrified. 
hurries over to them. 
"What are you doing to that child 
"He's autistic," the man 
keeping a firm hold on the boy. 
stranger is not pacified. 
"I don't care if he's artistic!" 
retorts. "It's not right!" Tell 
story, Kara Weeks smiles and 
her head. "So many people just rln~•"" 
know what autistic means." 

It means everything to Weeks, 
supervisor at Benhaven, which is 
institution for autistic children 
adulu. But the teachers and 
visors at Benhaven's residences 
schools a.re 
accustomed to 


ignorance of autism. The syndrome 
was only recognized in 1943, by 
Harvard psychiatrist Leo Kanner. He 
named the condition "autism" because, 
as he observed at the time, "There is 
from the start an extreme autistic 
aloneness that, whenever possible, 
disregards, ignores, shuts out anything 
that comes to the child from the out-
side." This social impenetrability is still 
widely considered 
to be 
autism's 
distinguishing feature. 

Most autistic children also display 
ritualistic, 
self-stimulating motions. 
These include prolonged rocking back 
and forth, frantic hand gestures, or 
simply shouting and running about 
wildly. In its most extreme form, this 
self-stimulation can turn into self-
abuse. When "tantruming," autistic 
children may hit themselves or bang 
their heads against a wall. 

Experts in the fifti~s and sixties saw 
autism as a psychological problem, 
brought on by deficient parenting. 
Psychologist Brunb Bettelheim's 
influential book, The Empty Fortress, 
espoused such treatments as increased 
hugging, or even separation of the 
child from the parent held respon-
sible- most frequently the mother 
Proponents of these therapies felt that 
they could cure an autistic child. 

Researchers today generally eschew 
the blame-the-parent approach and are 
exploring possible biological and 
chemical causes. 

Presently, 
these 
doctors feel that the condition cannot 
be cured. 

Autism is rare, affiicting only four or 
five out of every 10,000 children. Most 
are boys. All autistic children are 
either born with the syndrome or con-
tract it during their first year of life. 
Parents frequently have great difficulty 
caring for an autistic child at home, 
and the experience of one parent led to 
the creation of Benhaven. Amy Let-
tick, who founded the institution in 
1968, named it for her autistic son, 
Ben. In seeking help for him, she had 
found that few organizations existed 
for autistic people. This changed with 
the passage of the Education for 
Handicapped Children Act in 1975. 
Household tasks like preparing dinner are part of behavior therapy. 
The legislation requires that every 
school district in the United States 
provide free and appropriate education 
for all children, regardless of handicap, 
in order to receive vital federal funds. 
Programs for autisti~ children are 
more common today. Still, Benhaven 
remains unique in its size and scope; it 
is the only organization of its kind. in 
Connecticut, as well as one of the most 
respected in the nation. The residents 
and students range from young chil-
dren to adults in their thirties, and they 
function at many different levels, both 
socially and intellectually. Most are 
not simply autistic, but also retarded. 
Others, who do not display the stan-
dard autistic behavior, may show a few 
symptoms such as ritualistic motion. 
Benhaven has four branches: a main 
group of residences in an isolated area 
of North Haven; the Charles H. Ora-
zen adult workshop near New Haven's 
industrial Forbes Avenue; a school in 
Wallingford; and a small residence, 
Medalie House, for high-functioning, 
autistic people. These sites are all 
staffed by trained teachers as well as 
volunteers. Medical treatments, such 
as the administration of drugs, are 
provided by doctors from the Child 
Study Center, a branch of the Yale 
psychology department, which has 
been linked to Benhaven since it 
opened. 

The center also runs a class, offered 
through Yale, in which students vol-
unteer at one of the residences or 
schools. 
Psychology major Katy 
Schneebaum (PC '89), who went on to 
work at Benhaven for a summer after 
taking the class, admits that a full-time 
job there can be draining. "Even 
though Benhaven gets amazing results, 
it's still on a relative scale," she says. 
"My conception of what success meant 
really changed while working there. 
Success for these kids could mean 
making a bed." The constant frus-
trations and 
repetitiOUS behavior 
therapy tax all Benhaven employees, 
and not surprisingly, there is a high 
turnover rate. Still, those who have 
stayed point to one overriding reason: 
They love the kids. 

The pastoral setting of "the farm," 
Benhaven's principle branch in North 
Haven, consists of several ranch-type 
dwellings surrounded by woods. Each 
residence houses a different age group: 
Baker House is primarily for young 
children, Nakash House for adol-
escents, and Rosenberg House for 
adults. Another house, johnson, is 
kept locked, 
because 
it contains 
"runners" who will take any oppor-
tunity to run away. 

Both N akash and Baker, the chil-
dren's homes, are notably spare inside; 
bedrooms contain few 
furnishings 
except chairs covered with plastic and 
pictures screwed into the wall. In one 
child's room, the closet door is tied 
shut. Linda Simonson, the program 
and staff coordinator, explains that the 
children sometimes urinate onto their 
clothing. Another room has an extra 
layer of wood along the lower wall, but 
even this has been partially stripped 
away. While such destructive behavior 
is not an everyday occurrence, the 
employees must prepare for it. The 
adolescents at Nakash are particularly 



**Benhaven: A Haven for Autistic Children**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The hormonal changes of puberty do not bypass these teenagers. The residents all have specific, long-term goals, based on their abilities, which are laid out each year at a meeting among the teachers, social workers, and parents. The child is helped along by positive reinforcement- a piece of candy or a smile- which rewards appropriate behavior.

Notebooks contain each person's daily activities, broken down into minute steps and indicating whether a step requires a teacher's prompting. The notebook for one boy contains "taking a shower" and "making my bed," as well as activities called "chocolate chip cookies" and "hobo's dinner." These two consist of a series of photographs that the children follow like recipes. The first shows an apron; the second hands being washed; the third a bowl, and then the necessary ingredients and utensils one by one.


Since most of the farm's residents are nonverbal, they often communicate through pictures. One child, doing a puzzle with his visiting father, makes use of a "conversation board," which has pasted to it his photo, words like "want" and "more," and a number of different foods and activities to which he can point. Sign language is also used, even with the few residents who do speak. One behavior associated with autism is echolalia, where the autistic child will repeat what is said to him or her. A few others, especially the higher-functioning residents, can respond to questions quite normally. But an autistic person rarely takes the initiative and actually speaks without being prompted. Simonson explains, however, that this seemingly apathetic behavior may be misleading. "They do form relationships, but in a different way," she says. "They attempt social interaction. Their inappropriate behaviors may be ways to initiate this." These work in getting people's attention. Many of the children periodically make a loud noise or gesture wildly.


These behaviors can, unfortunately, escalate into real violence, which is difficult to control when dealing with a grown person. All too frequently, this violence is self-directed. In one particularly severe case, a boy would throw himself face down on the ground, without even the reflex to put his hands up for protection. Benhaven needs to employ restraints, such as tying a tantruming individual to a chair or to a staff member. The State Board of Mental Retardation offers specific guidelines about which restraints are allowed. New methods must be approved, and all procedures recorded each time they are used. Representatives from the board pay frequent visits to Benhaven to check on how individuals are being treated.


The issue of restraint is delicate, as Benhaven recently learned all too well. Last fall, one mother sued the institution, charging that they were abusing her child. This woman had in fact bought for Benhaven the very straitjacket being used on her child. But it is not uncommon for parents to have difficulty accepting the use of restraints, though they are for the child's own protection.


Those concerned about the possibility of abuses raise the question whether it proves unwise for autistic children to be hidden away at isolated locations like the farm. Robert Burt, chairman of Benhaven's board of directors since 1985, has serious misgivings about this kind of separation, which makes it harder to monitor treatment. "These children can call forth a very primitive kind of fear in their caretakers," he says. "It's very easy to get locked into a very vicious cycle in which the kids are regarded by the adults as subhuman, and so inhuman things are done to them."


Burt also feels that abuses are hard to monitor in large institutions. He points out that Mansfield, one of Connecticut's state homes for the mentally retarded, grew to house 5,000 people until a lawsuit ordered it to decrease in size. "Mansfield is a terrible place," Burt says, "but it started as a family-run school in about 1890 for ten kids who lived with a superintendent, in a beautiful bucolic setting. So that's my constant refrain when we talk about enlarging. I always say, remember Mansfield." Unfortunately, Benhaven is under pressure from the state to expand. In Burt's view, Benhaven's small size and contact with the outside world have helped keep it from becoming "a warehouse operation."


Like the farm, the Benhaven school in Wallingford is set apart; its students are not integrated within the normal school system. "People rationalize it by saying they're happier amongst their own kind, and it's cruel to subject them to the stress of comparing themselves to normal kids," Burt says. "But I think that stress and comparison is a normal part of development and growth. The impulse to protect these kids because they're 'different' can mask a lot of negative feelings." Still, he speaks highly of Benhaven's program, cautioning only that it should not be considered a national model.


Inger Connery, a supervisor at Benhaven, points out that the Wallingford school may in fact be typical. "Sometimes states say 'yes, everybody's integrated in our state,'" she says, "and then you go and look and they're actually in separate classrooms." Admittedly, teachers unfamiliar with autism often have trouble dealing with the special needs of autistic students. Most of the Benhaven staff think that integration is appropriate only for the highest-functioning children. "Their behavior will be less disruptive, upsetting, and confusing to the normal kids," explains Dr. Joel Bregman of the Child Study Center.


Despite its continued emphasis on separate schooling, Benhaven is turning toward a policy of integrating with the community. "Everything is being examined right now," says Benhaven Teacher Tom Sobocinski. "We're talking in groups and committees about what is our mission, what is our philosophy, and that breaks down into our techniques and directions." Benhaven's new direction has led to the integrative programs at Medalie House and the Charles H. Drazen adult workshop.


Six of Benhaven's highest-functioning residents, ages 17-20, live at Medalie House in New Haven. The ornate building, which once housed a girls' finishing school, was first used by Benhaven as a school, but later was transformed into a residence. This decision provoked some hostility. "There was a movement within the neighborhood to raise money to buy the building from us," Burt recalls. "Before we met with the community, it was possible for some people to say, 'Well, I'm not opposed to retarded people in principle, but there are practical problems.' They'd cite things like parking, and noise. But then when we were so flexible on the practical problems, all that was left was . . ." He smiles wryly and does not continue.


**Title: Benhaven: Teaching Autistic Adults to Live and Work in the Community**
**Author: Jennifer Fleischner**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
must come from Medicaid, mainly 
available through the recipient's home 
state. About half of the residents at 
Medalie come from other states, and 
may have to return home or enter 
another institution. Benhaven's adult 
residence is small although other group 
homes do exist in Connecticut. As Burt 
says, "Our theory is not that we have a 
lifetime commitment to these people, 
but that we take very behaviorally dis-
turbed kids and try to teach them to 
live in a group setting." 

The Charles H. Drazen adult work-
shop hopes to integrate autistic people 
into society by placing them in regular 
paying jobs. Located in a 
neigh-
borhood of factories, Drazen is a small 
structure 
squeezed 
in between 
a 
banana company and a sausage com-
pany. When workers are unemployed, 
they spend their time performing tasks 
in the workshop itself. "Usually it's 
copies of jobs that we know we'll be 
getting or that we have had in the 
past," 
explains Supervisor 
Inger 
Connery. "They use real materials. 
Sometimes we ask a customer if he'll 
leave us a few extra boxes of things." 
As is typical at Benhaven, the work-
shop is understaffed. At the work-
tables, if a staff member turns away, 
the people gradually stop working, and 
begin to stare or to engage in ritualized 
motions. Still, as Connery points out, 
"Just staying at a table for an hour is a 
taught behavior. All these things have 
been worked on since they were very 
young, because part of autism is being 
very distractable, being always in tune 
to what you need and your own inter-
nal sensations." At an unattended 
table, one woman with glasses and a 
blond ponytail rocks back and forth, 
while the man beside her erupts in a 
sudden flurry of hand gestures that 
looks like a drum solo. They are making 
surgical bags; this involves folding a 
white plastic sheet into a rectangle, 
with the aid of a wooden board or 
ruler, and securing it with a tie. The 
staff, mostly college graduates, moves 
back and forth, starting people up 
again by saying their name or simply 
pointing to the pile of plastic sheets. "A 
lot of people here can do the job," 
Connery says. "The problem is moti-
vation. They're very dependent on 
prompting." 

When an autistic adult does take a 
job outside, he or she is always 
accompanied by a 
teacher. 
This 
program is called "supported employ-
ment." Supervisor Tom Sobocinski 
explains that ideally, jobs are suited to 
a worker's strengths. Some, for ex-
ample, have an unusually high tol-
erance for loud noise. They will also 
have no desire to socialize at work, and 
this creates a picture of efficiency. "I 
preach mutual dependability," Sobo-
cinski says. "We are unique in the 
state, and I think in a lot of other parts 
of the country as well, in that we put 
our people on the payroll. They be-
come employees of the company and so 
there are nice things like at T hanks-
giving, they brought turkeys home." 
Walking around the main room of 
the workshop, Sobocinski points to a 
bulletin board covered with all the 
different buttons the workers have 
made, from "Friend of the New Haven 
Library" to "I love Midori melonballs." 
The workshop owns six button-making 
machines. Other jobs have included 
delivering phone books and assembly 
line work. 

But the training at Drazen goes 
beyond work skills. Many of the group 
homes incorporate the teaching of 
skills and responsibility into daily life, 
through household tasks like folding 
laundry or preparing meals. Drazen 
provides other opportunities for com-
munity interaction through eating out, 
going shopping, or taking small trips 
during free time. One worker goes out 
for breakfast regularly with a super-
visor. "That starts the day off with a 
real positive interaction," Sobocinski 
says. 

Following Drazen's example, the 
residences are also emphasizing work 
skills. "The trend now is to start in 
nursery school and kindergarten," 
Connery says. "Things like taking 
responsibility, independence, having a 
job. It's not such a new idea for regular 
kids, because in kindergarten, you 
have things like you are in charge of 
watering the plants, you are feeding 
the rabbit. But for a disabled popu-
lation this wasn't always necessarily the 
case." 

The adolescents at the farm also 
learn how to function in the outside 
world. As Connery explains, seem-
ingly simple things like eating out can 
be broken down into a "large number of 
separate steps." Each thing might have 
to be taught in a very systematic way. 
So you do need to start early," she says. 
Meanwhile, the Wallingford school 
emphasizes academic skills like math 
in useful contexts such as counting 
money or telling time. These are 
taught alongside less school-oriented 
activities like toothbrushing. 

Benhaven hopes that through such 
instruction, its graduates will have 
experienced life within the community 
from an early age, and will be stronger 
candidates for programs like Drazen. 
The staff does acknowledge, though, 
that some cases are beyond such help. 
When school funding ends at the age of 
21, the residents with the least po-
tential may be placed in state insti-
tutions, considered by many a last 
resort. Benhaven is expensive, and its 
programs can only do so much. But for 
some, it can mean the difference be-
tween an overcrowded institution and 
a job in the community. 


**Title: On Pride in Prejudice**
**Author: Jamie Workman**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Books/Jamie Workman 
,~ 
On Pride in Prejudice 
When Allan Bloom, in his book. The 
Closing of the American Mind, writes, 
"These kids just do not have prejudices 
against anyone," he is not praising 
students for their tolerance and under-
standing. On the contrary, Bloom 
maintains that prejudice is healthy 
because it serves as a testing ground 
for philosophical and spiritual ideas. If 
students have no prejudices, all think-
ing is done in a vacuum; students are 
drained of the passion to believe in 
anything strongly. 
Drawing dis-
tinctions, according to Bloom, has 
34 The New Journal/April 22, 1988 
become taboo: We are no longer 
WASPs, blacks, men, or women-we 
are merely individuals. We are 
uninspired by music, our studies, or 
members of the opposite sex. In its 
effort to make everyone equal, demo-
cracy has made everyone more or less 
the same, without prejudice or pas-
SIOn. 

The structure of higher education 
has changed through democratic pro-
grams such as affirmative action and 
coeducation, pitting our prejudices 
against our experience. Bloom labor-
I I II . 
. ,,.,,.\ 
> r r 
:1\ -~\ LL) 
l 
~ 
' c .. 
E 
:; 
.<: 
J! 
iously documents this change, and 
draws conclusions based on what he 
sees. 
The 
institutions 
in 
which 
he has taught over the course of 
several decades have given him an 
excellent testing ground for his 
theories. But after all the social 
upheavals of counterculture, the civil 
rights movement, the feminist move-
ment, and the sexual revolution, the 
fundamental human nature of the stu-
dent has not changed -as much as 
Bloom fears. Prejudice, with all its 
advantages and disadvantages, still 


exists. Human nature does not alter 
over a matter of decades, no matter 
how monumental the collapse of the 
existing structure. The passion for 
people and learning is still there. 

The breakdown, as Bloom sees it, is 
epitomized by the rise of rock music 
and the fall of classical music. He does 
not equate rock with the pelvis thrust-
ing of Elvis Presley or with the 
seductive wardrobe of Madonna-that 
would be too simplistic. Instead he 
states, "This strong stimulant, which 
Nietzsche called Nihiline, was for a 
very long time, almost fifteen years, 
epitomized in a single figure, Mick 
.Jagger." He· informs us that "rock 
music has one appeal, a barbaric 
appeal, to sexual desire." No one will 
try to refute his claim by comparing 
the Stones to Stravinsky, but one can 
draw a parallel between the passionate 
effects of the composers on the listener. 
Looking more realistically at this 
music which "closes our minds to the 
higher pursuits of life," ··we must do 
what Bloom neglects to do: look at the 
various roots and branches of the huge 
tree of which Mick Jagger and his bar-
baric appeal are only a part. Rock 
stems from centuries of blues and jazz. 
Far from being a purely homogenous 
tradition, rock music contains diverse 
strains. Take any four roommates, and 
even if every one is a rock fan, each 
will have distinct tastes within that 
genre. While Bloom may consider rock 
nihilistic, I have prejudices against my 
roomates' music while 
remaining 
passionately inspired by my own. 
Not only does Bloom overlook these 
various branches of rock, and their 
accompanying prejudices, 
he pro-
daim<; 
that "rock 
music provides 
premature ecstasy 
artificially 
induces exaltation naturally attached 
to the completion of the greatest 
endeavors." Bloom paints an exag-
gerated picture of students as sexually-
frenzied rats following the Pied Piper 
Mick Jagger. He is reduced to the 
character of the evangelists, 
condemning "on-campus forrniii-
cation!" For our salvation, the 
evangelists offer the Good Book; 
Bloom offers the Great Books. 

While Bloom sees rock music as a 
dangerous disruption of a valuable 
system of prejudices, he feels that the 
civil rights movement, ironically, has 
done the opposite. Through affirm-
ative action, the movement has simply 
replaced one bad system with another. 
Bloom writes, "The programmatic 
brotherhood of the sixties did not 
culminate in integration but veered off 
toward black separation." He points to 
the segregated tables in the dining halls 
as evidence of this phenomenon. 

But the tables in dining halls "where 
no white student would comfortably sit 
down" are only part of the story. Some 
people would not comfortably sit down 
at an all Dramat table or Yalesbians 
table anymore than others would sit 
down at an all crew-jock table. These 
are more subtle prejudices that Bloom . 
ignores. It was not any different in 
Bloom's college days. 

Bloom states, "Whatever their poli-
tics, they [students] believe that all 
men- and women- are created equal 
and have equal rights. Whenever they 
The New journaVApril 22, 1988 35 


**Title:  Review of Bloom's Book**
**Author: Jamie F. Vorkman**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"revolution marched under the banner 
of freedom, feminism under that of 
equality." Their problem arose when 
the two clashed over issues such as 
pornography, he states accurately. In a 
later paragraph, he points to another 
contradiction: "The sexual revolution, 
however, wanted men and women to 
get together bodily, while feminism 
wanted them to be able easily to get 
along separately." These contradictions are still unfolding, and we 
have yet to see where they will leave 
us. Such movements can be summed 
up as the antitheses to what had been 
the theses of previous decades. Yet 
Bloom wants to deny that there is or 
will be a synthesis of these two stages. 
Bloom gives an exhaustive presentation of the changes in American as 
well as in European thought. Every 
paragraph of his book is fascinating 
and provocative. But because he fails 
to understand us on more than a 
superficial level, he fails to see our 
passions and our prejudices, our 
heroes and our villains. He does not 
eat breakfast, brush his teeth, or wait 
to use the shower with us. He has a 
limited knowledge of what we feel, and 
therefore, of what we lack. 

Bloom presents the reader with a 
well-defined figure of a student- nice, 
as he puts it, but basically uninspired. 
By all detached reasoning, Bloom 
should be believed, but he is no longer 
a student. In his impatience to prescribe a remedy for our ills, Bloom 
invents the disease. His overall claim is 
that higher education must get back to 
basics before we can become healthy 
again. It is ironic that he has forgotten 
the most basic lesson of education-you can't judge a book by its 
cover. 

• 
Jamie F. Vorkman, a sophomore in Timothy 
Dwight College, is on the staff of TNJ.


**Title: Afterthought!**
**Author: Tom Augst**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

To Thailand, and Back

"What are you doing here?" 

I had taken my chances, I admit. 
Walking through the Yale campus by 
the Boola Boola Shop with the suspect 
credential of Recent Graduate, the 
question was bound to occur from the 
curious, the well-meaning, and the 
Oh-Hi-How-R-U (Keep walking, I 
don't really want to know) types alike. 
The question itself was perfectly 
innocent. But the tone implied something further: embarrassed surprise, as 
if I had stumbled into a black tie affair 
ready for a costume party; exasperated 
pity, as if I had stayed at this party well 
into its bitter end; condescending 
indifference, as if I were a street person 
asking for 
handouts of nostalgia. 

Disbelief: Why didn't I grab my 
chance to escape, finally, from this 
prison? 

I mumbled some answer with suitably Yale self-assurance. I looked at 
the trees, at the sidewalk, at my watch, 
all the while smiling, nodding, and 
hearing myself respond with such 
phrases 
as 
"learning experience," 
"challenging," "satisfying"-and 
the 
clincher, "I should be out of here by 
May or August." I had gnawed these 
words to the bone long ago; now they 
were stuck in my throat. After six 
months of repetition, how could I possibly draw any more sustenance from 
dry words 
like "challenging" and 
"satisfying"? 

I felt slightly dizzy. "And, uh, what 
are you up to?" I asked, breathing in 
deeply. 
My acquaintance's 
mouth 
opened into a dark chasm and dis-
gorged references to a familiar, far-
away life, one that I, too, had lived. 
"I'm in a play . . . spring break . . . 
senior essay .... " And then what? 
"Maybe law school .... " Blah blah 
blah. Hadn't I considered law school 
myself? A few months ago, desperate 
and aimless, hadn't I even taken that 
test, along with thousands of others in 
what was a record year for the LSAT 
administration? Wasn't I still considering applying to law school? I 
broke out in a sweat of delirious self-
examination: 
What should 
a typically ambitious Yalie, be doing? Once 
again, I felt uneasy about working in 
New Haven. 

My ego told me that I had defied the 
destiny that had brought me to Yale- I 
had left the path of the Wunderkinder. 
In sixth grade, the school nurse called 
me into her office, made me draw pictures of myself, and then informed me 
that I was gifted. I left her office 
wondering where I'd caught this disease. That is when I entered the 
cloistered company of boys and girls 
who went to Math and Science Club 
and did arts and crafts after school (I 
had to miss two episodes of "Speed 
Racer" per week). Then there was 
tracking in public schools where, no 
matter how many new kids you saw in 
the halls, you saw the same 30 faces in 
all of your classes. SAT scores danced 
before my eyes, as did teacher recommendations, and then college reply 
letters telling me that I was diverse, 
talented, and accepted. Proud parents, 
diplomas, awards, blah blah blah. 

I had made a speech to my high 


school class at graduation where I 
proselytized: Don't succumb to what 
others expect of you; destiny is not 
something to be comfortably accepted 
but must continually be remade. And 
after my speech, I saw the uncompromising face of my physics professor, Mr. P, telling me, "I hope you 
don't forget what you said." At the 
time, I was grinning too much, filled 
with the promise of the future, unable 
to think about what he meant. 

"So, uh, is it uh . . . strange ... 
living in New Haven?" 

I blinked. Mr. P was not watching 
me; I was in front of the Boola Boola 
Shop. "Strange?" I 
repeated. My 
acquaintance 
looked around 
nervously. She clearly thought I was 
strange. "Well, yeah, being so close to 
Yale and all," I said. 

I knew this sense of strangeness 
could come upon me anywhere, disguised as nostalgia or melancholy. But 
being in New Haven increased my 
awareness of the protection the Blue 
Mother affords its young. Standing in 
front of the Boola Boola shop, I looked 
into the window and remembered that 
for a moment, sometime in my junior 
year, the paraphernalia appealed to me. 
I would have blissfully wrapped myself 
up in Yale sweats, scarves, and even 
Boola Boola underwear. Between the 
shyness of freshman year and the 
camaraderie of graduation, we immerse 
ourselves in a stimulating and structured environment. 

Such 
a 
self-
contained and formative experience 
can give us the illusion that we are 
finished creatures, done with learning, 
and ready to accept our destiny, comfortably. A year later, I'm having 
doubts. 

"What's strange is that the Boola 
Boola underwear was so gosh darn 
snug," I mumbled. Confused, my 
acquaintance stared at me for several 
seconds, looked at her watch, and 
suddenly remembered she was late for 
something, but it had been nice talking 
to me. "Take care-" I called after her. 
I continued to stare at my reflection in 
the window. 

What was I doing here? Living, certainly. "Dude, you call that living?" my 
reflection answered. Wearing reflector 
glasses, cut off shorts, tie-dye shirt, 
and a big grin, he said, "Oughta be in 
Thailand. Kickin' back on the steps of 
a temple-some radical Frisbee turf out 
here." That's just an escape, I thought. 
I looked more closely, and decided I 
would look good in a suit and tie. "Wall 
Street's for me, buddy," he said, 
pulling at the wristband of his Rolex. 
"They started me at 35 grand, but I 
could be pulling in 60 with my bonus." 

And look like everybody else? Perhaps 
the academic robe was for me, dressing 
me for a life of the mind in some 
British university. "If you must walk 
off the path to cross the green, for 
heaven's sake don't let the Dons catch 
you." 

Engrossed by my reflected image, I 
was tempted by these roles, so easily 
adopted. But Mr. P's face appeared 
once again before my eyes. He reminded me that no matter where I am 
or what I do, it is the fate of adulthood 
to reevaluate one's standards and 
goals, to rediscover what is satisfying. 
After four years of weaning, of learning how to fit in and create an identity 
for oneself in a community, the Yale 
graduate -like any other graduate-
must learn all over again. In the end, 
one must wear one's own underwear. 

Tom Augst is a graduate of Silliman 
College. 



**Title: The class participat**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The class participat 
since the 
$2~04 contributed to 
$26,0 In ptedges to 
(a 15% increase 
