Publication date: September 5, 1986
Volume: [Volume not specified]
Issue number: [Issue number not specified]


**MASTHEAD:**
- **Cover photo:** Carin Brooks
- **Cover design:** Beth Callahan


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
Between the Vines
Theater
Profiles
Guarded Speech - Tamar Lehrich
Playing on the Green - Tom Augst
A House for Higher Thoughts - Jay Carney
Probing a Women's Disease - Melissa Turner
10,000 Miracle Legion Fans Can't Be Wrong - Jo Daly
The Kat's Meow - John Schachter


**Title: Guarded Speech**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 3**

After Nat Hentoff's sympathetic four-part series in The Village Voice, BAD week '86 offender Wayne Dick became Yale's summer celebrity. Now the free speech controversy comes home to New Haven. By Tamar Lehrich.


**Title: Playing on the Green**
**Author: Tom Augst**

A great play was on the New Haven Green. And it was Shakespeare. Cool, huh? Yeah, and cool people. And they don't go to Yale By Tom Augst.


**Title: A House for Higher Thoughts**
**Author: Jay Carney**

Just three blocks off campus, Griffin Manning has spent 30 years cultivating an "antiquish" sensibility. By Jay Carney.


**Title: Probing a Women's Disease**
**Author: Melissa Turner**

The medical profession has only started asking questions about the women's infertility disease endometriosis. And Mary Jane Polan, the first woman to finish a residency in Yale's OB/GYN department, has taken the lead in the research. By Melissa Turner.


**Title: 10,000 Miracle Legion Fans Can't Be Wrong**
**Author: Jo Daly**

Miracle Legion has the best shot at stardom of any local band in 30 years. Thanks Frank Capra and Gary Cooper. By Jo Daly.


**Title: The Kat's Meow**
**Author: John Schachter**

A passionate, explosive love triangle set amidst the strange sands of an Arizona desert—the truth behind George Herriman's comic strip Krazy Kat By John Schachter.



**Title:  These days it's more important than ever to plan your financial future the best way you know how.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
These days it's more important than ever 
to plan your financial future the best way 
you know how. We're a family of financial 
companies that can help you make the 
most of your money. 
If you 'd like to know more about how 
MONY can work for you, or how you can 
work for MONY, contact: 
Barry Bulakites, Manager 
102 South Turnpike Road 
Wallingford, CT 06492 
Mf;JNY 
FINANCIA L SERVICES 
4 The New Journal/September 5, 1986 


**Title: Publisher Margarita Smith**

Publisher 
M argarita Smith 
Ediwr-in-Chiej M elissa Turner 
Business Manager 
Barrie Seidenberg 
Managing Ediwrs J ay Carney 
Tamar Lehrich 
Designer 
Beth Callaghan • 
Production MaTUJ.ger 
Stu Weinzimer• 
Photography Ediwr C arter Brooks 
Associate Business Managers 
Beth Cohen• 
Mike Sonnenblick 
National Sales Manager 
Peter Lefkowitz 
Associate Ediwr Dan Waterman 
CirculaJion Manager 
Debbie Rosier 
Staff 
Pearl Hu 
Tom Augst• 
Susan O renstein• 
Bronwyn Barkan•• J en Sachs 
Margaret B~uer 
Karen Shen • 
James Bennet 
Lori Sherman 
Martha Brant 
Pam Thompson 
Jcn Fleissner• 
Yin Wong 
Alison Gardy 
Peter Zusi 
• J«<n/ AJinl 22, 1986 
••tUMJ M~JY 16, 1986 
Mnnbers and Diuclors: Edward B. Bennett Ill • 
Henry Chauncey, Jr. • Peter B. Cooper • Andy 
Court • Brooks Kelley • Michelle Press • Fred 
Strebeigh • Thomas Strong 
Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr.t • Edward B. 
Bennett, Jr. • Edw~rd B. Bennett Ill • Blaire 
Bennett • Gerald Bruck • J onathan M . Clark • 
Louise F. Coopert • J erry and Rae Court • 
David Freeman • Geoffry Fried • Sherwin 
Goldman • John Hersey • Brooks Kelley • 
Roger Karwood • Andrew J . Kuzneski, J r. • 
Lewis E. Lehrman • E. Nobles Lowe • Peter 
Neall • Julie Peters • Fairfax C . Randallt • 
Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur 
Sager • Dick and Debbie Searst • Richard 
Shields • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tate • 
Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah 
Wardwell • Peter Yeager • Daniel Yergin 


**Title: tha' l(iv~n a 'I("("Ond time-**

The New joumal encourages letters to the editor 
and comment on Yale and New Haven issues. 
Write to Melissa Turner, Editorials, 3432 Yale 
Station, New H aven, CT 06520. AU letten for 
publication must include address and signature. 
The New joumal reserves the right to edit all 
letters for publication. 
(Volume 19. Num~r I) 77w N...,J--' it pubhlh<d au tuna 
dun'"! t~ JC'-1 year by The New Joumal ao Yale. Inc .• P-
Offott Bo• 3432 Yale Scaoion. New Ho~n . CT ~20. 
Copyro~lu i9e6 by The New Joumal at Yale. Inc All rip!l 
~wr'Yt"d R~productlOn ~11Mr in whok or 1n pt.M wUhoul wriuen 
~rm1t.t10n o( the publi~r and nfitOI""in .. chie( it proh1btted. 
ThiJ m•~•z.m~ IJ published by v.k: CoU~t«e ttuckntl. and Yale 
Un1\len1ty 1.1 noc re-sponsible for ics cont~tnts 
E.lt"\lt"n thouund copia. of each issue: •.re dutrlbuted frtt to 
rMmbt":n o( ~~ VUe Un•ve.nny community. 
Tlw N,., /--' u oypc-oe< by 1M Charl1on p,.... ol New Ho~n . 
CT. and pnn1ed by ~ 
R=un<kr. Inc o1 Rocky H•D. CT 
l!looU<q>~n~ and accounlln~ """'"" ,_- by Caiman 
llo<>U<q>~ ol N<w Ho~ . CT B.U•n~ ..,_.by Scmpllfaed 
8u.,neoo ~rv~«~ ol Hamden. CT 
Olr..-.: 11<1ct...- 30S Crown Str.d. Olr- 312 
Phon< (203) 4~S2S 
Su-.nptiOI\I ~ 
avaalabk to lhc:aw out:Mdc thr Yak (Offtmun•t:y. 
Rol~• 0ow y~ar. 510 Two~· 518 


**Title: About This Issue**
**Page number(s): 5**

About This Issue 
Yale's a great place. And so's New Haven. This issue of 
TNJ focuses on a variety of interesting, creative and 
thoughtful people around us- both within the Yale 
community and outside. It features an article on the 
August production of Shakespeare on the Green (the New 
H aven Green)- a look into its presentation, its actors, 
directors and audience- by Tom Augst. Jay Carney 
profiled Griffin Manning, an unusual old man with 
eclectic ideas about art and a house to prove it. For their 
views on women and 
medicine, 
Melissa Turner 
interviewed 
doctors 
at 
the 
Yale 
Medical 
School 
researching a disease which causes a large percentage of 
infertility in women. Reaching into the New Haven 
music world, Joe Levy profiled Miracle Legion, a young 
band well-known to patrons of the Grotto. Tamar 
Lehrich raises important questions about the media and 
its power to create news with her opinion piece on this 
summer's 
hullaballoo over the 
Executive 
Committee's 
punishment of the 
undergraduate 
responsible for the BAD Week '86 posters. And in a special 
review section for Yale's comic book afficionados, John 
Schachter reviews Krazy Kat: The Comic Art of George 
Herriman. 


**Title: New Home for Hot Items**
**Author: Alison Cardy**
**Page number(s): 6**

NewsJournal 
New Home for Hot Items 
Just about everyone except Freshmen 
will be surprised this fall when they 
walk into Wawa's. The store, a haven 
of relief for weary weenies shuffiing in, 
reaching for their favorite shelves by 
reflex, 
has undergone a 
minor 
overhaul. It may look the same to the 
exhausted pre-med stumbling in at 3 
a.m. with her eyes half-closed, but 
when she goes for the two liter diet 
Coke she may find herself with the 
king-size Clorox instead. And for the 
English major, desperate for enough 
coffee to last him through a night while 
he churns out three more papers, the 
mini Maxwell House jars are now next 
to the Dristan in the O.T.C. drug 
section behind the counter. 
"At first customers got frantic," said 
Linda Ostrom who is Wawa's relief 
manager. 'You changed the store! 
How dare you!' they said. We're such 
creatures of habit that even we [the 
people who work at Wawa's] would go 
for something on a shelf and it would 
be a foot away." 
One of the most noticeable changes 
has been moving the cashier counter 
from the side to the front of the store. 
"This way we can see all the way down 
the aisles. People were stealing from 
areas we couldn't see," said Manager 
Mary Johnson. 
Wawa's has also 
installed a full width mirror in the rear 
of the store which allows cashiers to see 
the back shelves. Because 'hot' items 
(tuna fish, sardines, SPAM and small 
jars of Maxwell House coffee) were 
disappearing faster than they were 
being sold, they have now been placed 
behind the counter with the O.T.C. 
drugs where they can be well guarded. 
So remember to ask for your tuna fish 
by name. 
"We've also added another sandwich 
area so two people can work on the 
sandwiches without bumping into each 
other," said Johnson. Specials such as 
"The Meatball Express" and "Mac n' 
Cheese" are listed on a spanking new 
blackboard 
next 
to the sandwich 
menu. And those famous two for 
99cent "wa-dogs" have been moved to 
the other side of the sandwich section, 
thus preventing a long line of people 
6 The New JoumaUSepu~mber 5, 1986 
waiting for both sandwiches and hot 
dogs. 
"This Wawa's is not like other 
Wawa's," said 
Ostrom, who has 
worked for six years in the Wawa 
chain. 
"Most Wawa's are just 
neighborhood stores where people go 
for bread and milk and other things 
they run out of. But no one does hot 
dog and sandwich business like we do. 
People from other Wawa's come in 
here and are in disbelief at the business 
we do. We sell a helluva lot of hot 
dogs." W awa's also sells a hell of a lot of 
soda, candy and potato chips, and now 
devotes full length aisle space to each of 
them. 
"We've added another soda machine 
and our three coffee machines have 
been pulled out of their corner so 
they're more accessible," said Johnson. 
"No one could get in during coffee 
rush." One beverage Wawa's has 
discontinued because of low sales is 
beer. And the space-devouring ice 
chest is gone, replaced by more shelf 
space. To make room for bags of ice 
Wawa's has cut down on frozen foods, 
but is marketing some of its own 
brands "including Wawa ice cream ," 
said Ostrom, "which is supposed to 
have less air in it than Haagen Daz." 
Wawa fruit bars have replaced imports 
from California, and Wawa frozen 
yogurt should hit the shelves soon. 
A regular customer approaches the 
counter. Ostrom knows her by name 
and asks if she wants change for bus 
money. The customer, an elderly 
woman, smiles and nods. What did she 
think of the changes? "When I first 
walked in here I thought I was in the 
wrong store!" she said. Then she 
smiled at Linda, "But it's nice this way 
and people know me here." Ostrom 
greets many customers by name and 
chit-chats while she gets their change. 
She feels good about the renovations. 
"It's more efficient this way. The flow 
pattern is a lot better," she said. 
Johnson agrees, "But the real test will 
be when the kids come back." 
-Alison Cardy



**Title: A No-Sleeper**
**Author: Dan Waterman**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A No-Sleeper 
George Hickenlooper (ES '86) and 
Kevin Burget (BR '86) might just have 
pulled the ultimate all-nighter this 
summer and made fllm history in the 
process. The two Yale ftlm majors, 
who both graduated this spring, had 
been awake for three days and nights 
in a row, frantically piecing together 
and editing The Bells of Funicelw, a 
feature length film on videotape they 
wrote and directed together as a final 
project for a special tutorial in film 
making with Yale professor Michael 
Roemer. 

Time was running short as the two 
rushed to prepare the ftlm in time for 
its !July 3 preview as part of the Yale 
Summer Film series shown in Davies 
Auditorium. Still editing with the 
preview only minutes away, Burget 
rushed off to the auditorium with the 
first of two video tapes that constituted 
the film, while Hickenlooper remained 
behind and hurriedly continued to edit 
the rematnmg 
tape. 

Luckily, 
he 
completed the second half just five 
minutes before the first tape was to 
end, rushed over to Davies and popped 
it into the machine in time for the 
audience to see the ftlm in its entirety. 
Hickenlooper and Burget had just 
managed to show a film as it was being 
made. 

..1 
was 
hallucinating from 
exhaustion while I was talking to the 
audience," said Hickenlooper, who 
along with Burget didn't see the film in 
its entirety that day because he fell 
asleep in the auditorium during the 
preview. 

Tht Bells of Funicello tells the story of 
the first three days of life at Yale for 
freshmen in the class of 1990. The 
characters 
include a 
surfer from 
southern California who is infatuated 
with Annette Funicello (ergo the title), 
and a radical Yale student from the 
1970's who happened to be locked in 
Harkness Tower during the protests, 
feels guilty about it, and has thrown a 
continuous party 
in Yale's steam 
tunnels honoring the protesters ever 
since. 

The film starring Yale students Birk 
Bilger '86, Julian Fleisher '88, Suzanne 
Cryer '88, Ron Livingston '89, Jeff 
Mays '87, Carla Power '88, Courtney 
Walsh '87, ~1ark Wesolo~ .. :ski '89, and 
Winter Mead '87. took over 50 hours 
of video tape, 123 scenes, and some 
800 shots to complete. The two ftlm-
makers spent the rest of the summer 
re-editing and polishing their two-hour 
long ftlm which will be shown again 
September 12 and 13 in the Yale 
University Art Gallery Auditorium. 

Hickenlooper said the film's visual 
quality and 
resolution leaves 
something to be desired, "but what 
really counts in a film is the story." 

Their professor must have thought so 
because despite the visual imperfec-
tions and the rushed editing, their al1-
nighter paid off-the film got an "A". 
-Dan Waterman 


**Title: Dream Record**
**Author: Dan Wainman**

Dream Record 
Some have said that at Yale, musicians 
talk a lot about starting bands but few 
groups ever materialize- all talk and 
no play. But times have changed. First 
students began forming new bands on 
campus. Then came Nadine, an eclectic 
music fanzine that helped publicize 
student bands and gave new life to 
Yale's pop music culture. 

This summer Yale and New Haven 
rock bands released a compilation 
record of songs called Some New 
Ruins- proof that the new interest in 
music here has become more than just 
a fad. Not surprisingly, the record was 
sponsored by Nadine. 

The album 
fearures two songs each from Yale 
bands Beauty Constant, the Rafles, 
Senator Flux, Cattle Collision and U 
Thant, and SxOxMx and Bleached 
Black from New Haven. It was re-
leased in the first week of June after 
months of organization and production 
by David Levine (SY,'88). With the 
help of John Robinson and Teo Bald-
win, 
two 
New Haven musicians, 
Levine recruited the bands under the 
auspices of I. V. Towers Records and 
Tom-A-Rok Productions, two com-
panies they created to record and 
promote local Yale and New Haven 
groups. 

The songs on Some New Ruins "range 
from light rock to hardcore," said 
Robinson, the director ofTom-A-Rok. 
Of the 300 original pressings of the 
album, most were given to radio sta-
tions, 
East-Coast distributors and 
promoters, while the rest were placed 
in local record stores where they are 
still available for $7 .98. In addition, 
700 more copies of the record are being 
pressed this month for future sales. 

The companies celebrated the 
album's release with a party on July 23 
at the Brick-N-Wood International 
Cafe, a local club with live shows for 
local bands. 

Most of the groups 
featured on the record performed, and 
over 250 people attended. Robinson 
saw the event as a starting point for the 
companies as well as the record. 

Robinson, Levine, and Baldwin like 
to emphasize that their efforts are 
geared towards combining the talents 
and tastes of musicians from both Yale 
and New Haven groups. In fact, each 
of them plays in at least one of the 
bands featured on the record along 
with numerous other musicians from 
both the University and New Haven. 

"We like to think our work builds a 
sense of community," Robinson said. 
"'Everybody is able to participate in the 
complete musical process and nobody 
takes themselves so seriously that they 
can't give time to one another." 

If their efforts, which include the 
upcoming recordings of two other local 
bands, Psylent Zone and the Revel-
ators, continue as planned, the dream 
described by David Levine on the back 
cover of the album may just become a 
reality-"you have your own band and 
I mine and maybe we could jam 
sometime and then I remember the 
dream; maybe this is it." 
-Dan Wainman 


**Title: Justice, At Last**
**Author: Jay Gamey**
**Page number(s): 8**

Justice, At Last 
There will probably be a book. Maybe 
even a movie. A young radical, a 
lawyer, thinks he is being framed, 
decides to flee the country and lives as 
a transient fugitive hiding from the 
FBI. In France he falls in love. But 
after 13 years he returns to the U.S. to 
clear his name of murder and conspir-
acy charges. The ending? .... 

Stephen Bingham, '64, is now a free 
man. 

On July 27, 1986, after two ~md a 
half months in the courtroom and five 
days of jury deliberation, Bingham 
was acquitted by a 12-0 vote of charges 
that he had smuggled a gun into 
California's San Quentin prison 15 
years ago, a gun that allegedly sparked 
· a bloody escape attempt. Jurors later 
spoke of too many inconsistensies in 
the prosecution's case and too little 
likelihood that Bingham had been 
anything more than a scape_goat. The 
member of a politically prominent 
Connecticut family, Bingham went to 
Boalt Hall Law School at Berkeley 
after Yale and a stint in the Peace 
Corps and had joined some friends in a 
makeshift lawyers' commune in 
Oakland. On August 21, 1971 he 
visited California's San Quentin 
prison. 

Bingham dealt mostly in 
landlord-tenant law, but on this day he 
came to San Quentin to visit Black 
Panther leader George Jackson, who 
was being held in m~imum security 
on a murder charge, to discuss a civil 
suit to improve prison conditions. 

Jackson was a trouble maker on the 
inside, the outspoken spearhead of the 
Panther~ adopted cause, the "Prison 
Movement." He was supposedly the 
most closely watched and certainly the 
best known prisoner in the country at 
the time. 

After Bingham left Jackson that day, 
there was a bloodbath at San Quentin, 
the worst in the prison's history. 
Jackson, two white prisoners and three 
white guards were killed. According to 
prison authorities and guards, the 
violence 
began when Jackson 
produced a gun on the way back to his 
cell after meeting with Bingham. It 
was an escape attempt, and Bingham, 
they said, had somehow smuggled the 
gun to Jackson. Bingham thought he 
was being framed. At the time, the 
California State government, with Ed 
Meese as Attorney General, had been 
trying 
to 
discredit 
the 
prison 
movement as well as· the lawyers who 
served as 
intermediaries between 
inmates and 
the public. When 
Bingham heard over the radio that the 
Marin County District Attorney 
claimed to have "conclusive evidence" 
against him, he decided to flee. "Had I 
stayed," he said, "there would have 
been no fair trial, no bail, and I 
wouldn't 
have survived in the 
California jails with those guards. I 
was accused of killing three of their 
colleagues." 

Bingham first went to Las Vegas, 
where, with friends' help, he was able 
to change his physical appearance and 
get a false birth certificate and social 
security card. For the next 13 years he 
went by the name Robert Dale Boarts. 
He travelled to Philadelphia, was able 
to get a passport and then flew to 
Europe. He spent the first three years 
on the move through Yugoslavia, 
Czechoslovakia, Austria and Italy, 
too afraid to stay anywhere long or to 
find work, but settled in Paris in 1974. 

Never losing his penchant for social 
causes, Bingham joined a group of 
political activists in Paris who spoke for 
struggling farmers. There he started 
painting houses for a living and 
enrolled in a film school, where he met 
and fell in love with a fellow student, 
Francoise Blesseau. 

In the later years of his hiding, 
Bingham travelled to _ Canada and 
three times crossed the border without 
detection, once to visit his parents. In 
1984, he and Francoise decided that he 
should risk life imprisonment to clear 
his name. On July 9, 1984, nearly 13 
years after the San Quentin shoot-out, 
Bingham turned himself in to the 
Marin County Sheriff. 

Now Stephen Bingham is free and 
can start life anew, but the man who 
•was often described as another victim 
of the sixties doesn't seem to have 
changed too much in 15 years. A week 
after the acquittal, he was on the front 
lines with Jesse Jackson during a civil 
rights march. As for the future, there is 
talk of following the family tradition 
into politics. And, of course, there 
might be a h<x?k . . 
-Jay Gamey 


**Title: Picturing Women**
**Author: Alison Cardy**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Picturing Women 
Abandon all hope of starting off first 
semester with easy-going summer time 
conversations in the dining hall. This 
year a raging controversy will greet all 
Y alies who pick up copies of two publi-
cations identically titled Womm of the 
Ivy League. More than a few of us 
already may have one of the publi-
cations . Playboy magazine's September 
issue featuring nude photos of women 
from the Ivy League schools has had a 
week or so head start on its rival 
publication, which was coordinated by 
women centers representing all the Ivy 
League schools. The women centers 
have raised 12.000 doll~rs to publish 
40,000 copies of their version, 5,000 of 
which will be distributed at Yale this 
September. 


The idea to create a magazine 
protesting the Playboy issue originated 
in Yale's women center when Playboy 
was recruiting models . from the Ivy 
schools last spring. The Y alies chose 
not to respond by rallying or picketing. 
"We decided to take Pla;,boy to terms in 
its own form," said Joyce Banerjee 
(TD '86) who helped work on the 
original idea. 

Easier said than done. Though 
everyone 
involved agreed the 
magazine should in some way portray 
a more realistic, complete picture of 
women than Playboy offers, controversy 
surrounded the project from the very 
beginning over how that picture would 
be composed. Debates ·touched on the 
issues of whether nude phototgraphy 
and other forms of erotica should be 
included and whether the magazine 
should accept men's contributions. 

"It would have been interesting to 
have included thoughtful contributions 
from men who have also grown up 
under the influence of Playboy," said 
Renee Schwalberg (ES '87), who co-
runs 
Yale's 
women 
center. 
But 
Schwalberg stood in the minority, and 
the I vies voted overwhelmingly to 
exclude men's contributions to the 
magazine. Many feared that during 
the editing process there n1ight be a 
tendency not to judge men's contri-
butions solely on their artistic quality, 
but rather on the gender of their 
creator. In the end some comments 
from men were 
included in the 
centerfold, though not to everyone's 
agreement. And two men were very 
much involved in the conception and 
organization of the magazine. 

Almost everyone involved agreed to 
include erotica, but again some were 
unhappy with the end result. "The 
erotica had 
nothing controversial 
about it," said Banerjee. "We needed 
more material dealing with sexuality. 
We were timid on that issue." Ellen 
Levy (DC '86), who also took an active 
roll in the publication, agreed with 
Banerjee. "By glossing over female 
sexuality we reinforced the idea that it 
is embarrassing, a fault or a flaw, when 
really it ··should be celebrated." But as 
Schwalberg explained, "I would have 
been quite pleased to . print things that 
had more erotica than we did, but we 
didn't get any." 

While some think the tnagazine fails 
to reach women on a . more profound 
level, others feel the magazine should 
reach a broader audience on a level 
that will stir discussion and debate. 
"In my vision," said Schwalberg, "I 
targeted an audience that doesn't think 
much about the significance of Playboy; 
people who think it's fun or have 
neutral feelings toward it. We already 
know we have ari audience of Aurora 
readers, that's why we printed so many 
copies to reach other people." But 
Levy, who referred to the magazine as 
''just a more expensive Aurora," said it 
failed to offer "any new visions of how 
women see themselves_ as creative, 
sexual, and intellectual beings. We had 
the chance to challenge the paradign• 
that dichotomizes women as either intel-
lectual or sexual, and we blew it." 

In this muddle of controversy within 
controversy, one thing is sure: the 
debate over what is and what is not a 
realistic view of women is bound to 
continue in its epic form long after the 
covers of both magazines have frayed 
and faded. 
-Alison Cardy 

**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Tamar Lehrlch**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Between the Vines/ Tamar Lehrlch 
Guarded Speech 
It only takes one question to reveal 
where a Yale has spent this past 
summer-just mention the name 
Wayne Dick and if you receive a blank 
expression, they've probably been off 
in Paris or the Soviet Union or maybe 
even Seattle. Otherwise, the latest 
news creation of The Village Voice~ Nat 
Hentoff will be all too familiar- it's the 
story of how a poor Christian boy from 
Florida came up north to a big, liberal 
Ivy-League school, expressed his views 
on the immorality of homosexuality 
and was slapped on the hand by the 
University for his "bad speech." At 
least that's the way Hentoff told the 
story. 

After working for a national T.V. 
news program this summer, I've grown 
sensitive to the extreme power of the 
media- the extent to which a small, 
select group of people in this country 
determine what is and is not news-
worthy. Think about the death of' 
basketball player 
Len 
Bias, 
the 
promising young athlete who died 
from a cocaine overdose. The media 
dug their teeth into it, and now 
Reagan's giving out urine samples and 
shaking hands with Mexican president 
de Ia M adrid while promising to put a 
stop to drug trafficking. If the media 
hadn't taken hold of the Bias story, 
would we now be waging a nation-
wide war against crack? I've become 
wary of journalists and their motives, 
convinced that 'objective' and 
'unbiased' reporting is but a myth, 
mistrusting of words themselves. 

In mid-July, Hentoff came out with 
his four-part series on Wayne Dick, 
DC'88, who had taken sole respon-
10 The New Journal/September~. 1986 
sibility for last April's BAD week '86 
posters. The posters had satirized 
Yale's annual 
Gay and Lesbian 
Awareness Days (GLAD) and had 
parodied Professor John Boswell, 
Patrick Santana, JE'86, and Ned 
Lochaya, TC'87 (also known as Aimee 
Zing). The Executive Committee 
found his posters threatening to the 
Yale community and gave Dick two 
years' probation. As I followed the 
case, I began to see all too clearly the 
way a journalist can seize upon an 
event and thereby create an issue out 
of it, shaping it into a story which the 
public will swallow whole as though it 
were objective truth. 

Discussing the issue earlier this 
summer, I found myself instinctively 
wanting to defend Santana, who had 
brought the charges against Dick. But 
because I didn't know the details of the 
case (Hentoff pad presented them 
rather muddily) and had only vague 
memories of the BAD week '86 poster, I 
was left inarticulate. Asked if I'd want 
posters to be taken down which 
portrayed a different group-jocks, 
perhaps- in a defamatory way, I was 
silenced. But then I tried to explain 
that Hentoff had taken a skewed 
perspective- he obviously had not 
tried to talk with Santana; he had 
y, ... w<l 
Ill< liS~ 
. 
~ "' 
' 
.# __ 
exaggerated the impact that a sentence 
of two years' probation would have on 
Dick's future . 

In the following weeks, I gathered 
articles on the case from The Voice, The 
New Haven Register, The Boston Globe, 
and Human Events, a paper put out by 
Accuracy in Academia which called 
GLAD a "campus-wide celebration of 
perversion 
the whole 
m ess 
winding up with a dance." Yet, even 
with all of that paper in front of me, I 
felt as though certain voices -.:were 
missing. 

Then I spoke with Carrie Costello, 
DC '86, and more pieces began to fall 
into place. I discovered that Pat 
Santana and Caroline Jackson, 
director of the Afro-American Cultural 
Center, brought a grievance against 
Wayne Dick not for the BAD week '86 
poster per se but because Dick had 
specifically singled out Santana-a 
quite important point which Hentoff 
conveniently had failed to mention 
amidst his grand 
theories. 

The 
grievance specified that Wayne Dick 
had clearly violated the University 
Regulation in which " . . . the Yale 
College Faculty has affirmed: 1. Its 
commitment to protect free expression 
and peaceful dissent and to preserve 
mutual respect and charitable relations 


--- Page 11 ---

among all members of the University. 
2. Its belief that physical restriction, 
coercion, 
or intimidation of any 
member of that community is contrary 
to the 
basic principles of the 
University," (Chapter I, p. 5). 

"The issue is not free speech," 
Costello said, "but protecting the rights 
of people who are harassed." She 
argued that the point of the First 
Amendment is to allow people the 
freedom of expression, and if one's 
speech frightens or threatens others, 
then it becomes a form of silencing. 
She considers the BAD wuk posters as 
having intimidated not only those 
individually mentioned, but the entire 
gay and lesbian community. "We must 
protect the rights of those who are 
being silenced," she stressed. She 
added that if Wayne Dick truly wished 
to establish a genuine dialogue and 
have a forum to express his thoughts, 
as Hentoff suggests, why didn't he sign 
the poster? Why didn't anyone take 
responsibility for it? "Wayne Dick has 
been presented by the media as a poor 
loner being stepped on 
by the 
majority," Costello said. "That's ironic 
considering that he actually falls into 
the main-stream of American 
thought." 

While agreeing with Hentoff that 
there's something wrong with the 
procedures of the Executive Commit-
tee, Costello was left confused by 
Hentofl's hidden agenda. "Why did 
Hentoff wait for the one case in favor 
of gay students to pick on the 
Committee?" Costello asked. She has 
helped organize an Ad Hoc Com-
mittee Against Defamation in order to 
secretary. 

Costello said she had been told that 
Dick was not acting alone- that the 
Tory party, of which Dick is a mem-
ber, created the poster during one of 
their meetings. So, Dick may have had 
the unfortunate task of bringing the 
poster to Kinko's, where an observant 
employee had helped Santana connect 
the face with the crime. If this is true, 
one can only wonder whether other 
Tory Party members put pressure on 
Dick to assume full responsibility for 
the act. Perhaps he had been advised 
that 
the press 
would 
be more 
sympathetic to a lone pamphleteer. I 
then hear from Costello that the poster 
was financed not by Dick, who Hentoff 
has told us "has become the first 
member of his family with a shot at 
getting a college degree," but by the St. 
Thomas a 
Becket 
House, 
Episcopalian bastion at Yale; that the 
Rev. Charles Dinkier, their chaplain, 
spearheaded the BAD-week campaign; 
and that the Yale alumni who formed 
the Emergency Free Speech Commit-
tee(EFSC) to defend Dick are mostly 
former Tory Party members. Their 
initial aim, she had said, had been to 
organize a press campaign intended to 
follow on the heels of the anti-sodomy 
laws passed in July. 

Is it true that the entire Tory Party 
was responsible for the poster? "I know 
Wayne," Rev. Dinkier said. "I know 
people in the Emergency Free Speech 
Committee . . . But I really don't 
know about that." He said that the 
tradition of the BAD week poster "goes 
way back." Are the members of the 
EFSC Tory Party alumni? "A lot of 
them are," he said. "You know, I am a 
membe.r of the Tory Party. I helped to 
found It 16 years ago." Wayne Dick 
laughed when he heard the rumors. "I 
di~ the. poster. It was on my type-
wnte~, In my handwriting," he said, 
stressmg each word. "It was paid for by 
me. It was not a Tory Party function, 
not a Becket House function. I don't 
even know who did it before." 
The New Journal/September 5, 1986 II 


--- Page 12 ---

Patricia C. Barnes, who covered the 
story for the New Havtn Register, quoted 
Rev. Dinkier in her July 10th article. 
Yet, 
she 
failed 
to 
explain 
what 
connection, if any, existed between the 
Reverend and Dick. Why would she 
ask Dinkier his opinion of the case and 
not someone else? "Well, I couldn't tell 
you that, except that I know they're 
friends-that's all," Barnes said. "I do 
think that Nat H entoff is a majo r force 
behind 
this." She 
told 
me how 
reprehensible the poster was. 

Hentoff a major force behind the 
case? Wayne Dick had been the one 
who initially contacted Hentoff. "A 
friend of mine knew him, knew he was 
fairly objective," Dick said. "Before the 
hearing, Hentoff was going to write an 
article no matter how it came out." Pat 
Santana explained that while Dick's 
attitudes were purely incidental to the 
grievance, his actions were a clear 
transgression of the principles of the 
UniversitY. "Hentoff gave the 
impression 
that Dick was 
being 
'punished' for having expresst:d anti-
gay and lesbian senument," Santana 
said. "Yet, if that were true, students 
would probably be in front of the 
Executive Committee every day." We 
spoke of how difficult it is for people 
who have never confronted prejudice 
tO empathize with those who have. If 
Santana hadn't been 
individually 
singled out, he told me, he never 
would have pursued the case. H e 
wondered tf the posters would be put 
up again this year- printed and copied 
out in Hamden or someplace. "You 
don't think it could happen all over 
again?" he asked. I didn't know how to 
respond. 

As we spoke I saw more clearly the 
12 The New JoumaliSeptember 5, 1986 
way Hentoff had distorted the issue. 
He had set up a parallel between Dick's 
BAD week poster and the divestment 
campaign's blocking of the entrance to 
the Bursar's office last spring. But 
there's a difference between sitting on 
the steps of a building, an act which 
still "preserves mutual respect among 
members of the Yale community," and 
an act of intimidation on an individual 
level. Hentoff then sets up a parallel 
between Yale's punishing Dick and 
Yale Law School students shouting 
down William Shockley in the mid-70s 
and preventing him from speaking 
when he came here to explain his 
genetic theories. There's a difference 
between allowing Shockley to express 
his opinion that blacks are inferior to 
whites, and having Shockley get up on 
a podium and single out specific 
individuals using racist language. 

"The issue just becomes slimier and 
slimier," I triumphantly said to my 
friend, Joe, 
a 
few 
days ago. 
I 
confidently told him of the Tory Party 
connections; I emphasized that the 
poster was unsigned; I showed him 
anti-Semitic caricatures which I had 
found in a book on the history of the 
holocaust-caricatures which illustrate 
popular superstitions and their persis-
tence throughout the ages. I began to 
draw a parallel between the fact that 
Wayne Dick had twisted Pat's name to 
become "Pet Sauznna" (emphasis added) 
and the age-old belief that the Jewish 
desire to control the bartks, 
government, the world was actually a 
concept derived from the Satanic 
image. 

But Joe interrupted me. 

"Look," he began rationally, pointing 
.. 
E " 
.!il 
!t 
.t • I 
c: > 
to the anti-Semitic drawings, "those are 
political cartoons. You don't feel they 
should be censored, do you?" We 
talked; 
became 
less dogmatic. 
Frustration set in. I put it all aside for a 
few days in an attempt to gain perspec-
tive on a situation which has no single, 
definitive answers, 
no right and 
wrong. It's an emotionally-charged 
issue: Did Wayne Dick, or the Tory 
Party or Rev. Dinkier, violate the 
University Regulations specified on 
page 5? If Dick were denied the right 
to put up the BAD week '86 poster _in a 
setting outside University jurisdiction, 
would he be denied a right which falls 
under the umbrella of free speech? 
Censorship or slander? Free speech or 
defamation? 

Days later I sit before my notes and 
articles and words trying to arrive at a 
conclusion. Conclusions? No, unlike 
Hentoff I am not left with any grand 
conclusions. I remember the words of 
Sue Wise, a colleague of John R. 
Williams', the New Haven lawyer and 
civil rights activist who has agreed to 
defend Dick free of charge. "Santana 
showed a certain hypersensitivity that 
is only appropriate if you're not a 
public figure," Wise said. "Once you 
come into a public arena, you must 
expect to be held e p to ridicule; it's 



**Shakespeare in the Park: A New Haven Production**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
.
The Green on a late August night. ·
Familiar
dark
shadows,
sparsely
branched
trees
and forbidding
stretches of grass. Welcome back to
New Haven. From the safety of the lit
sidewalk, you can see glimpses of ·a
stage, of lights, of people moving
about. On closer view: A short woman
in a wedding dress, looking like a white
cream-puff, circles around a large
bearded man, embraces hinl, knees
him in the groin,
and a
couple
thousand people burst out laughing.
This is not the New Haven Green you
know and love.


A Shakespeare play is not the first
thing you would expect to find while
walking
around
the New
Haven
Green. Walking by on the weekend of
August 22 during a performance of
Taming of the Shrew, you might have
been surprised to see the bright reds,
greens, and yellows of satin and lace
costumes; or the sets designed to evoke
a Paduan street scene. But for the third
year in a ro~, a local theater group
called Performance Studio presented
Shakespeare on the Green. In opening
up the Bard to the New Haven
community, the Performance Studio
challenges how we think of theater in a
city which, outside of Yale, many
people assume is culturally dead.


Amy Seham, artistic director of
Performance Studio, tries to make
Shakespeare understandable by
making him entertaining. Certainly
the audiences on the Green followed
the story of Tamin_f! of the Shrew, about a
foul-mouthed, ·independent
woman
tortured into ~ubmtssion by her strong-
• •
willed suitor. Seham used masks to
define the characters. simply and to
· make them obvious types that we all
recognize: The foppish suitor, the idiot
servant, the romantic hero, the greedy
father. 'With
the
good
daughter
Bianca, dressed in pink, with pink
hearts dangling from lier dress, and the
unladylike Kate dressed in red, with
black slashes across her skirt, the
symbolism was clear. Seham chose to
emphasize the play's light-heartedness
as well as its theme of role-playing by
using Commedia. dell'Arte, colorful street-
theater from the . sixteenth century,
characterized by
its improvised
comedy and archetypal roles. The
result of Shakespeare on the Green was
playful, broad comedy, well suited to
the bawdiness .of Taming of the Shrew,
with the kind of physical humor that an
audience
naturally
fi!lds
funny-
characters hitting each other, being
chased around stage, and falling on
their rears.


Putting on a play on the Green, the
center of a small industrial city, raises
problems that neither a theater nor its
audience usually confront. The largest
challenge in doing outdoor theater· is of
course the outdoors. With Taming of the
Shrew, the wind blew through the sets,
blue plastic was tied around the
microphone amplifiers, and against the
ongoing threat of rain the Parks
Departlnent spent days covering and
uncovering the stage with large tarps.
Without the walls of a theater around
it, Shakespeare on the Green had no
protection from the weather or frmn
New Haven. When it fmally did rain
. '
on the opening night, the performance
had to be cancelled; after five weeks of
rehearsal, Seham and the cast would
rather
have
been
inside an air-_
conditioned theater. But taking it in
stride, they rehearsed yet again and
hoped for clear skies the next day.


Watching theater on the Green may
at
first
leav~ people feeling
unco1nfortable and distracted- es-
pecially those who are used to settling
back
in their chairs in a
quiet,
darkened theater, expecting the action
to re1nain in front ofthem on the stage.
How could anyone be absorbed by
Taming of the Shrew? After all, the Green
..is no secluded · park, no enchanted
forest where the fairies in A Midsummer
Night's
Dream
can
be-guile
imagination. The best stage designers
would -have difficulty disguising it as
the Shrew's back yard in Padua; no
one would believe it, with ambulances
racing down Elm Street every hour,
sirens blaring. The Green remains an
urban center, a fact that a stage, some
lights and costumes will not change.


When you sit down on the grass,
action both rehearsed and unrehearsed
surrounds you. And the players might
be anyone.


Seham creatively used the Green to
her advantage. How did the audience
make the transition from New Haven
to Shakespeare's Padua? During th1e
performance, when a stream of bag
people with shopping carts streamed
onto the Green, met at the war
me1norial, and then paraded through
the audie.nce hooting and dancing, an
audience metnber asked, "Are they real

**Shakespeare on the Green**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
bag people? I can't even tell." A line 
between acting and real life had been 
blurred. Then bag people started 
changing into their Renaissance 
costumes in front of the audience. 
When they went on to juggle and 
clown, dance, and play music, and 
walked through 
the audience 
introducing themselves, the audience 
understood that they were actors in a 
pre-show pageant that opened Taming 
of the Shrew. 

Joey Tomorrow, an independant 
artist in New Haven who directed the 
pre-show, intended it to help the 
audience make the transition from 
contemporary New Haven to Shakes-
peare's world, in what he refers to as a 
"sandwiching of time." With the set 
comprised 
of simple scaffolding, 
striped curtains, and painted tap-
estries, the Green didn't need to be 
disguised: because the audience knew 
that people were playacting, they could 
enjoy it and laugh with the actors-
even with the ambulance sirens in the 
background. Like commedia players, 
Performance Studio brought theater to 
the Green, if not exactly to the street. 
Some might say that the poetry is 
lost in such popular versions of 
Shakespeare; but then for Seham, if a 
play does not keep the audience's 
interest, the ideas will be lost. "There's 
an assumption that I'm less intel-
lectual," she said with sarcasm. "I 
actually have a lot of themes in my 
work: disguise, deception, identity. 
But people say, 'We'll do Art and be 
intellectual over here, but not be 
entertaining."' In bringing out 
elements that are of broad appeal, 
making the action and humor of 
Taming of the Shrew as clear as possible, 
Seham's work 
perhaps 
succeeded 
where the fully professional theater 
companies fail. "I'll be sitting there (in 
other theaters) totally bored, watching 
Shakespeare. I don't understand how 
that can happen. But it's amazing how 
many productions I've seen where 
they've had the iambic rhyme, or the 
British accents, but the audience did 
not understand what was going on." 
Without theater walls, Shakespeare 
on the Green has opened up theater to
New Haven not only by making it 
understandable for anybody, but also 
by making it free. Anyone can go. "It's 
a 
very egalitarian function," as 
producer Kevin Sheehan described it. 
"Shakespeare wrote for all audiences, 
but he ends up in stuffy theaters with 
rich people chortling." Open theater is 
not only an ideal for Seham, but a 
working habit. At a rehearsal where 
two kids on bikes were mimicking 
Seham as she gave direction to actors, 
someone asked "Should they be there?" 
She responded abruptly, "They are our 
audience." Beneath her common-sense 
approach to classic drama and the 
matter-of-fact way she discusses it, 
Seham holds a deep conviction that 
theater must be accessible to everyone. 
She believes a major problem with 
theater at Yale that the Performance 
Studio avoids is an exclusiveness that 
shuts people out: "That pretentious 
quality, that elite quality in theater is 
anti-theater." The vision behind the 
Performance Studio and its Shake-
speare on the Green productions 
centers on undermining the elitism of 
theater- the elitism of Art that sits 
aloft without making itself understood, 
but also the basic social elitism of 
theater that can charge $30 a show. 
"Theater is for the people. We've 
gotten into this thing, that you can 
only go see a play if you're a yuppie." 
Seham throws her hands up. "No! 
Theater is part of your life. You don't 
have to be exclusive about it, you must 
be inclusive." 

In the groups that passed by the 
rehearsal, or in the large audiences 
that brought lawn chairs, blankets, and 
picnic dinners to the Green, you could 
see that people who might never 
experience a Shakespeare play, or any 
theater at all, have a chance to see it. 
At one rehearsal, a woman with her 
baby daughter and her mother stopped 
to watch, finally sitting beside the stage 
for the next hour and a half. Now and 
again she would say "Jesus!" and shake 
her head, laughing. As Kate slapped 
her sister Bianca in the face, an "oh my 
God" came from a group of teenagers 
on the other side of the stage. Their 
tone was highly sarcastic, but they 
clapped when they left . . . forty 
minutes later. "I don't mean to be 
patronizing," Seham added, "but a lot 
of the people on the Green aren't 
college grads, and if they can get the 
jokes and laugh, I did something right. 
I didn't undo what Shakespeare put 
into his play." 

Making Shakespeare free to New 
Haven has of course required someone 
to pay the bills, if not the actors. This 
year, sponsors such as First Federal 
Savings, CBT, SNET, as well as the 
Connecticut Arts Council and other 
sources contributed $30,000- still 
short of paying the actors. That 
Shakespeare on the Green started out 
in its first two seasons with budgets of 
$5,000 and $15,000 respectively, that 
the T.V. station WNTH has given the 
production free publicity, and that a 
variety of private concerns and state 
agencies have volunteered their help 
indicates that the city in general is 
becoming enthusiastic about the 
benefits of the annual production. For 


--- Page 17 ---

the commercial sponsors, Shakespeare 
on the Green lets them give something 
back to customers, something more 
creative than bonus teddy bears or 
alarm clocks. The main benefit is of 
course to the cultural life of New 
Haven as a whole; Performance Studio 
would like everyone to see that, along 
with the Brian Alden Jazz Festival, 
they're trying to make New Haven, as 
Sheehan describes it, "an exciting place 
to be on summer weekend nights." 

For the Performance Studio, the act 
of creation is messy; not a business, 
but fun. When the actors could not go 
out on the Green opening night, 
Sehain held a rehearsal in which no 
one could speak their dialogue; it 
resulted in hilarious slapstick and 
horseplay that conveyed Shakespeare's 
story without words. This kind of 
theater cares more about the process of 
theater than the end product. The 
Performance Studio not only opens up 
Shakespeare to new audiences, but it 
makes the creativity of theater 
accessible to people who might not 
have the chance of doing it quite the 
same way elsewhere. In New Haven, 
with Shakespeare on the Green, actors 
have found a place and a way of doing 
theater that is different, fulfilling, and 
rewarding. 


**Title: Shakespeare in New Haven**
**Author: Tom Augst**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
pageant, bag people 
help New Ha.,..en adjust to Shakespeare. 
thousands, 
intent on "making it" 
professionally, the joy of doing theater 
can be easily crushed by the difficulty 
of supporting oneself, 
and 
the 
creativity easily replaced by 
competition. In order to play Kate 
with the Performance Studio, Deanna 
Dunmyer commuted for five weeks 
from New York, where she is pursuing 
a professional acting career. "I love the 
New Haven Theater community. 
There's not an ego problem here, it's 
smaller, there are common factors in 
people's lives. And really, in New 
York, except for Broadway and OfT, 
they aren't really any better there." If 
other projects came up that interested 
her with the Performance Studio, she 
would probably repeat the commute 
and the sacrifice in pay. "I get tired of 
New York and of aJI the bullshitters in 
the business. Here, I find a much more 
supportive atmosphere, that you can 
grow in. And that's what this play has 
been about." 

When Taming of the Shrew opened 
under a cloudless night, you could see 
that theater does not need walls, equity 
pay, or New York to be done as it 
ought to be done. Watching the diverse 
group of people that has come out to 
see Shakespeare, Joey Tomorrow 
observed: "Everyone needs theater in 
their life. Playing is an important way 
of releasing the tensions of day to day 
survival, of reinforcing family and 
community ties." His words may not 
fully describe the scene yet, but 
gathering part of New Haven together 
on the Green is a start. Certainly, the 
risks of an open theater remain.


**Title: A House for Higher Thoughts**
**Author: Jay Carney**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"The house with all the 
junk hangin' all over 
it? Sure, that's crazy 
ol' Griffin Manning 
that lives there. Go 
ahead on in and 
knock on his door; 
he'll talk to you." 

If you ask Griffin Manning why he has 
decorated the outside of his house with 
wagon wheels, bird cages, 
plastic 
horses, a model log cabin and other 
children's toys, he'll hesitate for a 
moment, and then say, "Because I am 
an odd 
sort of person." 

It's 
a 
description he's accustomed to offering 
to his 
wife, 
family, 
friends and 
neighbors, all of whom have been 
calling him crazy for most of his life. 

He isn't bothered too much any more 
that those closest to him have failed to 
understand a passion for what he calls 
"antiquish" things, and he now happily 
accepts that only people of "higher 
thoughts and education" realize that 
Griffin Manning is more than just a 
crazy old man from New Haven who 
lives in a funnv-looking house on 
Winchester Avenue Each time some 
such person, receptive to the uncon-
ventional, stops by his home to take 
pictures- and this has happened once 
every few months for the past 23 
years- the occasion reassures 
Manning that he is not alone in his 
peculiar tastes and that those who have 
labeled him crazy or, less affection-
ately, "too eccentric for his own or 
anybody else's good," will have to 
swallow their words. 

Griffin Manning turned 72 last 
M ay, and he has been living on 
Winchester Avenue, just a few blocks 
from Yale Un iversity's ominous Kline 
Biology Tower, for the past 30 years. 

The neighborhood around his house is 
residential, and not u ntil recently have 
the transient kind of people associated 
with the U niversity started to move in. 

Still, 
few know about Manning's 
house, and those who do either live in 
his neighborhood or have once gotten 
lost, on a walk or a drive through New 
Haven, and have come across it unsus-
pectingly. Invariably they have found 
a novelty, the unrecognized art, they 
might say, of a poor man. 

The houses on H illhouse Avenue 
exude g randeur, classic a n d 
uncontested elegance. Two blocks 
away along Sachem Street is one of 
Yale's unofficial borders with the real 
New H aven, the 
~ .. ely G. Mwid 
M emorial Lib rar~ Winchester:\venue 
begins in fron t of M udd Library, and 
Griffin Manning's house is only three 
blocks away. Winchester has been 
holding out against the gentrification 
that presses from the east. Just one 
street over, the houses h ave all been 
renovated: rotting boards replaced, 
freshly painted inside an d out, sod laid 
in over new, more fertile soil, an alarm 
system connected to all doors a nd 
windows and almost always a new 
fence, an u gly wire fence to keep 
outsiders out. 

But Winchester Ave., the last one 
before the lot that separates this 
neighborhood from a major housing 
project, has been resisting. T he houses 
here are incongruous, not in style, but 
in degree of deterioration. In the first 
block up from Sachem, along the left 
side of the street, two sets of five new 
row houses are going up. Fram es and 
plywood now, a strong wind m ight 
settle their u nsturdiness, and yet it 
seems 
that 
t~ey face 
a n 
o ld 
neighborhood without hu miliation. 

T wo days in a row I have seen on this 
block a young white boy, abou t seven


--- Page 23 ---

or eight, sitting on his bicycle, riding 
it-if you could call it that-in the 
front yard of a newer house. A fence 
kept him in, relegated to a small patch 
of grass; "vv" ooom," and he stood still, 
balancing himself, 
his feet just 
touching the ground. 

Before the next intersection, still less 
than 150 yards from Mudd Library, 
Windsor Pharmacy draws a crowd to 
its comer lot. It's a good day to hang 
around and listen to music, which 
spills out of radios from parked cars, 
from boxes slung over shoulders, from 
inside 
the pharmacy and 
the 
convenience store across the street, 
and from nearby houses. It all blends 
together, but with so much open air, it 
remains music 
instead of noise. 

Everyone out here has some connec-
tion to the old neighborhood, and 
outsiders receive stares to assure them 
that they are not passing through 
unnoticed. No hostility; just setting 
things straight. 

On the 
next 
block, 
Griffin 
Manning's block, a large open lot, 
which might one day become prime 
ground for more building, opens up to 
the left. For now, cars fill in some of 
the space, grazing like old, dry cows in 
a field where mounds of trash, dirt and 
scraggly brush have replaced tender 
clumps of grass. Most cars in this 
neighborhood are a 
recognizable 
breed, dented and aging American 
models, built during the seventies with 
hungry engines and rusted shells. 

Some are in worse shape than others, 
plastic taped over a missing window or 
cement blocks holding up a frame 
without engine or tires, and these 
especially seem to haunt the streets. 

The empty lot stretches back a ways-
Winchester is the last street of the 
neighborhood in this direction - and 
comes to an end at the foot of a 
14-story housing project, built with 
dull red bricks and window after 
window, 
shutterless and 
uniform 
except for the broken or boarded ones, 
which outnumber the rest. Between 
Winchester Avenue and the project 
runs a 
single line of abandoned 
railroad tracks- remnants of the old 
Farmington Canal line-overgrown, 
like the lot surrounding them, with 
weeds and trash. 

Across from the lot, in the middle of 
a block, stands Griffin Manning's 
house, a simple two-floor structure, 
narrow from the street but deep in 
back, a low chainlink fence separating 
the small, overgrown front yard from 
the sidewalk. Stripped down, the house 
would be hard to distinguish from 
others nearby. But along the fence and 
the near side of the house hangs an 
assortment of wagon wheels, some 
large enough to have really been used 
at one time, and others as small as a 45 
rpm single, but all painted beige, aqua 
or a pale blue. A two-tone plaster 
rooster, perched where the near-right 
corner of the house meets the fence, is 
like a fill-in guard dog. A platform, 
secured by wire to the top of the waist-
high gate and held up by diagonal 
supports underneath, stretches toward 
the street. On top of it sits a model log 
cabin, about one foot wide, six inches 
deep and eight tall. Just inside the gate 
stands an uprooted, narrow tree, the 
bark shaved smooth and its trunk


--- Page 24 ---

freshly painted aqua blue. One of the 
three or so bare, spindly branches rests 
against a bird cage that hangs from a 
corner of the front porch. Wrapped on 
t\'110 sides with chicken wire, it sways 
slowly and noiselessly, no more than 
six feet off the ground. Inside the cage 
are some of the strangest treasures. No 
nest or seed here, nothing really that 
one might expect in the average bird 
cage, but miniature horses of different 
sizes, colors and poses piled around a 
model car that looks like a 1920's 
roadster, painted red with black trim 
but faded from the sun and rain; and 
life-size birds with plastic feet molded 
together, their heads somehow caught 
between the thin gold bars of the cage, 
are suspended above the cage floor. A 
chain of silver-painted French coins, 
without denomination, but each the 
size of a nickel, weaves in and out of 
objects near the <.age's top. The cage 
resembles the house itself, a studied 
disorder, the kind of house that might 
appear in a child's fantasy. 

On the corner of Winchester and 
\1\'oodland, a man who limps and 
hisses through his teeth when he laughs 
sits behind the counter of a small, 
musty liquor store. '"You mean the 
house with all the junk hangin' all over 
it?" he says '"Sure, that's crazy ol' 
Griffin ~lanning that lives there. Go 
ahead on m and knock on his door; 
he'll talk to you." Through the side gate 
,.,.·ith the log cabin and up to the front 
door: Vi,ian ~tanning. Griffin's wife. 
answers. "I don't have nothin to do 
with all the junk out there; that's my 
husband's doin'," she says. Although 

she 
is 
72, 
like 
her husband, 
and must use a cane to get around the 
house because of arthritis, she is a 
lively, sharp woman. and a little 
suspicious. "You wanna talk to my 
husband?" she asks incredulously, and 
then pauses, studying the stranger. 
"Well, alright, come on in. He's 
through that door in the back." 

In the corner of a dimly-lit dining 
room crowded with enough furniture 
for 
two 
rooms 
its 
size, 
Manning sits nestled in a small stuffed 
chair, wrapped in a pale green blanket. 
Vivian explains that he isn't ill really, 
just a little cold. Only his foot moves, 
tapping softly to jazz that fills the 
room, emitted at near distoruon level 
from two bookshelf speakers in the 
opposite corner. Not an inch of wall 
space in the dining room is left 
uncovered by paintings, ornate 
mirrors, posters and postcards. Across 
the top of the service, someone has 
carefully arranged collections of china 
and ceramic nick-nacks, including sets 
of matching horses, some as small as a 
thumb, one family of painted birds and 
a miniature nativity scene. One table 
holds an assortment of old-fashioned 
buffet lamps, and, under another 
table, on top of which the stereo was 
playing, 
are stacks and stacks of 
records, a quick estimate of no less 
than 200. 

Griffin Manning has always loved to 
collect things, and his passion for 
music has developed into what he 
considers "the greatest collection of any 
one person" of old Gospel, Country, 
Opera and Jazz records. To convince 
the skeptic, Manning has his wifl" 



**Title: The Self-Stylist**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
u nveil the covered table in the main 
hallway: more stacks of records, at 
least another 200. He explains that his 
favorites 
are Count 
Basie, 
Eddie 
Arnold, Wayne King, Nelson Riddle, 
Frank Sinatra, Leona Price, Dizzie 
Gillespie and Willie Nelson. But Duke 
Ellington holds a special standing in 
Manning's ranks. "Outside of his 
music, jazz, Duke Ellington was the 
best-dressed man, and he didn't take 
from the magazines," he says. "There 
were styles, this and that, but he was a 
self-stylist." Manning hesitates a 
moment and then his face begins to 
break into a wide smile "And I'm a 
self-stylist," he says. "If you'd seen me 
when I was young, Griffin Manning 
was one of the sharpest black men that 
has ever 
lived." At 
this, 
Vivian 
:Manning's laughter can be heard from 
the next room. "That's true!" says 
M anning. "And j ust like I am a self-
stylist dresser, I am a self stylist on my 
house." 

Twenty three years ago, when he 
began collecting selected odds and ends 
from flea markets and Good \\'ill shop~ 
and placing them in hi<> small front 
yard or attaching them to the l~Kadc of 
his house, 
Manning had home 
improvement in mind, an int•xpcnsive 
way to make his home distinct lrom 
others in the neighborhood. Preparing 
to explain further, Manning straight-
ens himself in his chair and loosens his 
blanket. il<either his hair nor his wisp>· 
moustache have turned gray. but the 
knuckles of his hands are swollen from 
arthritis. While his conversion of 
"antiquish things" into art has little to 
do 
with any 
kind of religious 
The cage resembles 
the house itself, a 
studied disorder, the 
kind of house that 
might appear in a 
child's fantasy. 

inspiration, Griffin does believe that 
his moral attitudes correspond to h is 
decorative sensibilities. "I caJJ m yself 
some kind of Christian-feelin' person ," 
he says, "and I am for right against 
wrong for all times, no matter who you 
are-it makes no difference to me. 
And, just like I am odd in my belief in 
right," he continues, raising his hand 
in front of him for em phasis, "I am odd 
in the way I choose to decorate m y 
house." Does he consider himself an 
artist? "Yes, I do, somewhat," he 
replies, "because I knew there wou ld be 
people like you. I knew there would be 
people that like those little antiquish 
things out there and who cou ld see that 
they are nice right where they are." 

Born in Hartsville, South Carolina 
on May 9, 1914 to Sally and Albert 
Manning, Griffin Manning moved 
north to Washington, D.C. at 17, 
hoping to find the nation's capital less 
severely struck by the Depression. In 
Washington, Manning stayed with his 
sister, but work was sporadic at best, 
so after two years he headed. to 
Philadelphia, where he met and was 
married to Vivian Clarke in 1935. 
Mrs. 
~Ianning used to fight her 
husband's eccentric tastes in household 
design "But I ga,·e into him after I got 
really old and inconsistent," she 
explains. ~\\'ho cares any more; we 
were married 51 years ago this ~ une, 
and 'Let him do what he wants,' is what 
I sav now." 

~i.ife in Philadelphia in the 1930s 
was ~o bad," Vivian says later, "but 
not worse for us than the average black 
person." 1\.fanning found a job as a 
cook in a restaurant called Lenton's, a 
stroke of luck that he credits to 
President Roosevelt's National Relief 
Act (NRA). "At that time," he says, 
"they were working 12 and 13 hours a 
day, six days a week at Lenton's, but 
when the NRA broke out, they made 
them cut it to eight hours a day, so they 
had to hire more cooks. And I worked 
there for 
fourteen years." The 
Mannings and 
their only child, 
Christopher, born in 1936, lived in the 
same two-room apartment in a poor, 
all-black neighborhood during their 
entire stay in Philadelphia. Griffin 
Manning earned $16.30 a week for two 
jobs, and Vivian added an extra two or 
three dollars when she could get work 
scrubbing floors or washing clothes. 

Manning has a favorite story about 
the Depression years. "I remember we 
used to see people sittin' out waitin' for 
their welfare checks to come in, and 
there were so many people you could 
never imagine it. And there was a time 
when the mailman didn't have their 
checks, right in our block , and they 
jumped on the mailman and beat him 
up on the spot. Hah! It's hard to 
believe, I know, but that's a fact. I 
mean, that's really a fact." He likes this 
story because "it shows you how bad it 
was, but it don't make you sick to listen 
to 
it. " 

Nevertheless, 
Manning 
remembers the De.,::-.. ssion as some-
thing young people today would never 
believe could happen in this country. 
"It was the most pitiful sight you have 
ever seen in your life," he remembers. 
"To see these desperate people-and 
the people weren't out to rob some-


"Now I realize that we 
being here, as poor as 
we are, my wife and I 
are very lucky, 
because there are so 
many more people 
that are worse off than 
we." 

body, try in' to rob somebody; they 
were just hungry, hungry and in want 
of a place to sleep." 

When the Mannings moved to New 
Haven in 1948, financial strains began 
to ease slightly, and in 1956 they were 
able to buy their current house on 
Winchester 
AYe. According to Mr. 
Manning, they were the first blacks to 
move into the neighborhood, but he 
doesn't remember any racial problems. 
"I have always gotten along wherever I 
go," he says. "And you might say I'm 
goin off the rocker, but I'm not. I don't 
fear nobody, and, as a matter of fact, 
when people come around me, if they 
be around me long enough, a whole lot 
of people like me, because they know 
they ain't in danger." 

Throughout his ·life in New Haven, 
until his retirement seven years ago, 
Manning worked as a cook, first at a 
restaurant called Restland Farms in 
North Haven, then at an orphanage 
called Highland Heights. 
From 
1960-1963 he ran his own business, 
Grifrs Barbecue, on Dixwell Avenue, 
but returned to the orphanage when 
the restaurant fell 
through. 
Even 
during the smoothest times, however, 
the Mannings have never been far 
from poverty. The past seven years 
have been especially hard; but Mr. 
Manning still 
views his situation 
optimistically. "Now I realize that we


**A House Decorated With "Poor Man's Antiques"**
**Author: Jay Carney**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
28 T he New jou rnaV~ptember 5, 1986 
be1ng here, as poor as we are, my wife 
and I are very lucky, because there are 
so many more people that are worse off 
than we," he says. "I've had [welfare) 
grants here in this house, 'cause we are 
poverty-stricken, and my wife, you 
hear her, she doesn't want to admit 
that we are poverty-stricken, but we 
are. The only thing we have is the 
check that comes in from the social 
security every month, but neverthe-
less, glad to say, we have our house 
paid for. We've been here 30 years, so 
what I mean is, we are very lucky." 
A lack of money has been indil'e(:tly 
responsible for both the methods and 
the materials Manning has used to 
decorate his house. Whenever he coqld 
afford it, he would go to flea markets, 
garage sales and even junk yards -to 
pick out whatever caught his eye. 
Manning believes that, had he been a 
rich man, he probably would have 
collected valuable antique furniture, 
jewelry, 
trinkets and "first-rate" 
paintings. Instead, he collected a poor 
man's antiques, whatever he thought 
had an "antiquish" quality to it, but not 
a 
single item of which has any 
recognizable value beyond the base 
cost of its materials. Anything that 
could stand the weather (paintings and 
posters were disqualified) became a 
potential element in Manning's designs 


---

for the outside of his house. He chose 
each 
item 
according to 
loose 
requirements: it should be interesting, 
unoffensive, 
and 
in some way 
compatible with items placed nearby 
it. However, aware that an artist need 



not explain his work, he politely 
brushes off requests for theoretical and 
conceptual explanations: "I only intend 
that people can see that this is a very 
special house, and that those seeing it 
will enjoy it." 
While a number of passers-by have, 
over the years, taken an interest in 
Manning's house, 
and, of those, 
several have pronounced his method of 
decoration 'art', it is unlikely that his 
work will live on after he dies. It is 
doubtful, especially with gentrification 
moving in from Mansfield Street, that 
whoever owns the house next will want 
to preserve it as it is. So the strange 
house on Winchester Avenue will be 
strange only as long as the Mannings 
live in it. "My mother and father 
taught us that God gives us three-score 
and ten years to live, and that makes 
70," says Mr. Manning. "And both of 
us, my wife and myself, are 72, so we 
are living on borrowed time." From 
inside the next room, Vivian laughs. 
"Where you borrowin' your time from, 
Grift?" she asks, and Manning himself 
begins to laugh. "Anyway, all fm 
sayin' is that, anyone anywhere who's 
interested to stop by a house such as 
mine can do so. And, to anyone who 
likes music, my wife and I are pleased 
to play records for them, because they 
can be safe and comfortable in this 
house. I am sure they would be 
entertained." 
• 
Jay Carney, a senior in Timothy Dwight, is 
managing editor of TNJ. 



**Title: Probing a Women's Disease**
**Author: Melissa Turner**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At Yale, Dr. Mary Lake Polan tests a cure for almost half of all female infertility. 
Deep in a maze of silent dimly-lit 
hallways 
inside 
the Yale 
medical 
school, only large blue boards with 
white letters give the uninitiated a 
sense of immediate location. Maps are 
hard to find, arrows do not exist. Even 
white-frocked nurses and technicians 
who every now and again emerge from 
one of the countless identical doorways 
give contradictory advice when asked 
for directions. Knowledge here is 
focused; this complex system was not 
designed for the uninformed. On the 
non-descript third 
floor of a non-
descript wing some know as Farnam 
and others don't know exists is the 
department of the Obstetrics/Gynecol-
ogy (OB/GYN) section of reproductive 
endocrinology. Here, three doctors test 
a potential cure for endometriosis. 


Not many people know about endo-
metriosis. It does not cripple, nor does 
it blind. A serious disease, though 
unsensationalized, endometriosis af-
fects only women. Causing the major 
portion of female infertility, it can be a 
very painful condition. Only recently 
have women been aware that it can be 
easily treated and cured. After all, it 
has only been in recent years that 
women have entered the medical 
profession. Although men continue to 
do the bulk of the medical research into 
the causes of infertility, the three doc-
tors researching this disease at Yale are 
women. Dr. Florence Comite, Dr. 
Mary Lake Polan and Dr. Karen 
H utchinson comprise the Infertility 
Group Practice. Polan, long affiliated 
with Yale, was the first woman to 
finish a residency in Yale's OB/GYN 
department in 1978. Now, w1th the 
endometriosis study, Polan has been 
breaking ground in the realm of 
women's medicine- but 
both 
the 
research as weU as this pioneering 
woman doctor remain unrecognized 
outside academic circles. 


In the last 20 years, since the 
women's movement, an interest has 
been sparked in the medical research 
field 
of infertility. Traditionallv 
thought to be primarily a "'omen's 
problem, infertility affects both sexes 
almost equally. Women comprise 60 
percent of aU reported cases of inferti-
Traditionally thought 
to be primarily a 
women's problem, 
infertility affects both 
sexes almost equally. 
Laparoscopy identifies endometrial 
growths in fallopian tubes. 
Photo courtesy Mary Lake Po/Qn


Endometriosis, in turn, makes up 
as much as 25-50 percent of female in-
fertility. The drug that the Infertility 
Group is testing is GnRHa, medical 
shorthand for Gonadotropin Releasing 
Hormone analog. Thanks to GnRHa, 
women who p_reviously couldn't bear 
children now can. 


Laparoscopy, a procedure in which 
Polan inserts a thin fiber optic tube 
through the patient's navel, allows pic-
tures to be taken of the pelvic region in 
order to check for the presence of en-
dometrial growths. An associate pro-
fessor of OB/GYN who has received 
both M.D. and Ph.D. degrees, Polan 
has written reams of papers on en-
dometriosis in her career. She con-
ducts laparoscopic tests on women in 
the study before their medical treat-
ment and then again six months later 
to observe whether the growths have 
disappeared. 


Women have only just begun to 
enter surgical fields like OB/GYN. 
Most 
women 
who have entered 
medicine in the past have steered clear 
of surgical fields, which have remained 
male-dominated. But Polan was born 
in a generation who grew up during 
the first wave of American feminism. 
She c,laims not to be as "flamboyant" as 
one of her colleagues in medical 
school, Or. Elizabeth Morgan, who 
after breaking into the field of plastic 
surgery wrote an autobiographical 
account of her experiences in a book 
entitled Th~ .Makmg of a Woman Surg~on. 
Yet they shared similar experiences. 


Though currently on maternity 
leave, Polan has not slowed down her 
pace. Five weeks ago she gave birth to
her third child, Scott. She spends 
mornings in the office, trying to catch 
up on paper work, and afternoons by 
the club pool with her children, trying 
to catch up on their lives and her 
reading at the same time. Standing 
beside her family-sized sedan in the 
club parking lot one afternoon, she 
seemed harried. She bent over the 
stroller she had just pulled out of the 
trunk and hurriedly forced it open. 
"Hang on, I'll be ""ith you in a second. 
I'm .... " Her words trailed off as she-
reached into the back seat of the car. 
She re-emerged holding a red-faced 
baby in her arms. "Oh no. He's wet 
again. His diaper's going to have to be 
changed." She reached into the car 
once more, this time grabbing a 
magazine which she tucked in beside 
the baby in the stroller. Against a solid 
red backl'('round, the white words on its 
cover read: Fertility and St"ility. "Boy, I 
had no idea how hard it would be to 
have a third child -until I did it," she 
said, chuckling now that she had the 
stroller and baby en route to the pool 
where her energetic five and seven 
year-olds waited for her. She hadn't 
anticipated that caring for a new baby 
while reassuring her somewhat jealous 
older children would take so much 
energy. 


Somehow 
that just isn't 
surprising. Polan comes of the do-first-
and-think-about-the-rest-later school. 
"It was enormously stressful," she 
said of her 
residency 
at 
Yale. 
"Everybody was always watching me to 
see if I was going to fall on my face or 
not. No one was sure whether a 
woman would know. how to operate or 
whether she might cry when she got 
her perincl And of rourse. everything 
turned out just fine." On the OB/GYN


ward of the hospital, a small room with 
two beds allowed residents to catch a 
couple hours of sleep when on-call. But 
since there had never been a female 
resident before, the room had always 
been a single-sex sleeper. "When I got 
there, the other resident asked me to 
sleep in the on-call room downstairs. 
H e said his wife didn't like the idea that 
he'd have to share a room with me," 
she explained. "Come on. I'm tired. 
He's tired. What did she think we were 
going to be doing in there? I told him if 
he felt so strongly about it, he should 
sleep downstairs." The next day he 
moved. 


Polan said that to enter the medical 
world in surgery, or any field for that 
matter, women could not be merely as 
smart as their male colleagues. "We 
had to do everything they could do and 
more 
to 
compete 
for 
same 
positions," she said. "And times haven't 
changed so much." Wearing shorts, a 
shirt and sunglasses, this woman with 
short brown, slightly greying hair 
seems not at all relaxed- even 
poolside- but she remains composed. 
Polan seems to be the kind of person 
who can do five things at one time with 
ease. 


Since her residency, 
Pt'llan has 
practiced OB/GYN and has done a 
considerable amount of research into 
the causes of infertility, both male and 
female, as well as into the medical 
means to circumvent it, such as in vitro 
fertilization. 


According 
Polan, 
endometriosis, 
until a 
couple of 
decades ago, was thought only to be 
prevalent among older white women 
with nervous, 
high-strung person-
alities, but research since then has 
shown it to be egalitarian in nature, 
affecting women of all age groups and 
races- but still 
a 
misunderstood 
disease. While neither contagious nor 
considered genetic, endometriosis still 
may run in a family. 


Because of the pain endometriosis 
can cause, most women seek medical 
treatment. 
The 
two 
most 
classic 
symptoms, according to Hutchinson, 
are severe pain during menstruation 
and intercourse. "Women have come 
in who have actually put an end to 
their sexual relationships because it is 
so painful," she said. During gyneco-
logical exams, physicians can feel 
abnormal growths in the pelvic region 
or swollen ovaries, but most of the 
time, endometriosis goes undetected. 


A "retrograde flow" of endometrial 
tissue causes endometriosis. During 
menstruation the endometrial tissue 
flows out of the uterus, causing the 
bleeding associated with periods. In 
the "retrograde flow" case, some of the 
lining flows upwards into the fallopian 
tubes and into the pelvic region outside 
the uterus. There, the tissue adheres to 
organs such as the fallopian tubes, 
ovaries and the exterior of the uterus 
itself. Because this displaced tissue 
responds to the same hormones as the 
tissue in the uterus, it goes through the 
menstrual cycle of growth and bleeding 
as well. 


When these endometrial 
growths block the fallopian tubes, 
preventing eggs released from the 
ovaries from reaching the uterus, or 
when 
they cover 
the ovaries


**A New Treatment for Endometriosis**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
themselves, infertilty is the end result. 

Traditional methods of treating the 
disease have ranged from 
hyster-
ectomy, the surgical removal of the 
uterus and ovaries, . to 
steroidal 
treatments. "The ultimate cure is to 
remove the uterus and ovaries, which 
needless to say is a devastating thing to 
do to a woman," said Polan. Though 
the procedure remains infrequently 
used 
today, doctors performed 
hysterectomies quite routinely 30 years 
ago for women with severe pain. While 
in the last several years doctors have 
been burning off the growths in major 
surgery, now they can perform the 
same procedure by laser. 

These 
surgical procedures, however, only 
remove the growths temporarily since 
they do not prevent the "retrograde 
flow" 
or tissue 
growth. 
But by 
removing the growths, at least 
temporarily, the surgery allowed these 
women to become impregnated. With 
these surgical procedures, however, 
the 
burning may 
cause 
internal 
scarring, which in turn can lead 
to another set of medical problems. 

Medical treatment developed in the 
last 20 years, on the other hand, 
attempts to control the growth of the 
endometrium through drugs. 
For 
young women who do not want to 
become pregnant but who want the 
pain to dissipate, Polan prescribes a 
heavier than usual dossage of birth 
control pills. While women taking the 
pill for birth control absorb hormones 
for only 21 of 28 days, women being 
treated for endometriosis must take 
birth control hormones every day. As a 
result, these women have no menstrual 
ble~ding at all, causing the growths to 
disappear and the pain to lessen. 

But for women who do want to 
become pregnant, physicians have 
prescribed danazol, a steroid which 
induces a menopause-like state. This 
treatment has been very effective and 
often used in the last decade. It too has 
drawbacks for it can cost as much as 
$150 a month, and its side effects may 
cause weight gain, fluid retention, 
facial hair growth, acne, oily skin and 
the development of a deep voice. 

The hormone cure, GnRHa, like 
the steroid, 
induces 
a 
pseudo-
menopausal state, but so far has not 
shown similar side effects. Injected just 
under the skin on the arm, or inhaled 
as a spray, the synthetic hormone shuts 
off the hormones responsible 
for 
stimulating estrogen production and 
thus the growth of endometrial tissue. 
The doctors ask women participating 
in the program to take the drug twice a 
day for six months. After this period, 
the doctors have found that both pain 
and blockages have disappeared, en-
abling several women to become preg-
nant. Of the 20 women who have taken 
the drug at least three patients have 
become pregnant, and the only side 
effects to taking GnRHa have been the 
usual symptoms of menopause. 

But the program remains small. 
Since April, 1985 the three doctors 
have tested the drug on two batches of 
10 women. Florence Comite, who has 
worked extensively ·with GnRHa in 
treating precocious puberty, developed 
the endometriosis study. She applied


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Melissa Turner**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Polari, though, does not expect 
dramatic changes. What does she think 
will or has changed now that more 
women enter the field of OB/GYN? 
"Some people say that women are more 
sympathetic to women, that women 
obstetricians have a 
heightened 
sensitivity to wom en's issues. But 
remember 
t h ese 
are 
women 
physicians, they don't practice holistic 
medicine. These women have come 
out of a system, they have had to 
compete with men and have had to be 
better than them. They have to answer 
to the same tough questions, and their 
de~i~ion-making process is the same, 
not at all different." But the difference 
will be the "tenor of office encounters," 
she 
said. "You won't be greeted 
condescendingly, you know, like 'H i 
sweetie, how are you?'" 

Yale presents the best of all worlds 
for these women, for women's progress 
here can be mapped out, tangible. 
Problems can be pinpointed, and 
solutions can be found. But even so, 
finding a solution to endometriosis 
means finding a solution to only one of 
an infinite number of women's medical 
problems. Even in this field, it will take 
a couple of years for GnRH a to be 
released to the general public, and by 
then it will be very expensive, not 
accessible to most women. And, as 
always, researchers across the country 
lack the funding to examine women's 
medical problems thoroughly. But in 
the short run, Polan has found an ideal 
place for herself at Yale. And she 
knows it. 

Melissa Turner, 
a senior in Timothy 
Dwight, is editor-in-chief of T N].


**Title: 10,000 Miracle Legion Fans Can't Be Wrong**
**Author: Joe Levy**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Music/Joe Levy 
Lead singer Marc Mulcahy getting pixalated at the Grotto. 
10,000 Miracle Legion Fans 
Can't Be Wrong 
"Our music comes from the gut, like 
puke." Some bands have platitudes to 
sum up their sound and style, cliches 
more powerful than a locomotive, able 
both to come from and shape their 
attitudes in a single bound. Not 
Miracle Legion. They've got quips. 
One way to look at what's going on 
right now: I'm sitting in the Almar 
Diner with Mark Mulcahy and Ray 
Neal, singer and guitarist for Miracle 
Legion, eating a bacon cheeseburger 
and drinking a strawberry shake and 
giggling while they tell me how they 
ended up in a photo in The Village Voice 
article on the New Music Seminar . 
Another way of seeing things: I'm 
sitting in the Almar Diner looking for 
cliches, the big kind, the quotable ones 
you can hang a whole story on, and 
38 The New JoumaVSeptember 5, 1986 
these guys are giving me quips. "Our 
music comes from the gut," Mark 
quips. "Like puke." 

Not that Mulcahy is always so glib. 
Asked to name his big influences he 
cites Frank Capra and Gary Cooper. 
Not exactly what you'd expect from the 
singer/lyricist of New Haven's pre-
eminant band. Judging from the sound 
of The Backyard, the group's 1984 six-
song EP on Incas Records, you were 
guessing Psychedelic Furs maybe, or, 
unimaginative you, REM. Like those 
bands, Miracle Legion makes guitar-
centered pop that isn't afraid to be 
moody. But if you know Miracle 
Legion at all you know they don't 
confuse droning or mysticism with 
meaning, and if you've ever seen the 
Legion live you know how Capra and 
Cooper make perfect sense. In Capra's 
30's comedies Mr. 
Smith 
Goes 
to 
Washington, Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, It's 
a Wonderful Life the central character's 
innocence and idealism are broken and 
all 
but destroyed by 
real-world 
cynicism, only to be validated and 
restored at the darkest hour by a 
communal outpouring of faith and 
love. The innocence and integrity of 
Miracle Legion's music just isn't that 
far from Capra's vision. Onstage 
Mulcahy seems, like Gary Cooper's 
Mr. Deeds, "pixalated," and when he 
gets down on the ground with the band 
ritTmg softly behind him and asks 
everyone in the audience to get down 
with him "so we can all come up 
together," and 
then 
actually 
gets 
everyone there to do it, well, let's just 


say it's the closest thing to a communal 
outpouring of faith and love you're 
liable to get at a rock 'n roll show. 

Off-stage in diners, Mulcahy is 
considerably less pixalated, sarcastic 
even. Liable to compare his music to 
puke. Which would be fine if Miracle 
Legion was one of those post-punk 
LOUDHARDF AST thrash bands 
whose- medium and message is all bile 
and overload and electronic upchuck, 
or even if they were one of those 
smartass ultra-ironic trash-culture 
bands with quips and rifTs to spare. But 
how does that quip get you any closer 
to the heart of a band that plays pop 
songs of dreamlike beauty, songs at 
once haunting and catchy, driving 
ballads that sway as they rock? How 
does it take in the way Mark Mulcahy's 
vocals convey both mystery and 
understanding? Or for that matter, 
how does it account for Ray Neal's 
whalloping guitar hooks, riffs that pull 
you right into the center of songs? It 
doesn't. Ask these guys for platitudes, 
the big kind, the quotable ones, and 
they give you quips. It's like that late 
summer afternoon you decided to 
finally give up and call 'Ollie-ollie-ox-
en-freed' only to find the kids you're 
playing with are having too damn 
much fun to come out, come out where 
ever they are. "Our music comes from 
the gut, like puke." 

"And," adds Ray as I break up 
laughing and 
knock over my 
milkshake, "gets all over everybody, 
like strawberry shake." 

Ah, well this at least gets us closer to 
the heart of things, because lately 
Miracle Legion's music has been 
getting all over everybody, or at least 
10,000 people. With 10,000 copies of 
T1ee Badcyard sold, and rave ups in the 
When Mark Mulcahy 
performs he rocks 
back and forth with 
arms flopping loosely, 
like rock's Raggedy 
Andy. 
Village Voice, New York Times, and 
Britain's New Musical Express, Miracle 
Legion has the best shot at national 
stardom of any local act since the days 
of 1956, when the Five Satins cut "In 
the Still of the Nite" in the basement of 
a New Haven church. 

Miracle Legion 
Ray Neal, 
guitar; Joel Potocsky, 
bass; Jeff 
Wiederscahll, drums; Mark Mulchay, 
vocals -
has been playing together for 
three years now. Mulchay's the group's 
veteran. He was drumming and singing 
for New Haven's Saucers in 1978 when 
they cut "A Certain Kind of Shy," a 
Phil Spector-ish slice of pure-pop for 
now people that still stands as one of 
the finest seven inches of local vinyl. 
After the demise of Saucers, Mark and 
Ray teamed up to form a farifisa 
organ/guitar duo called Plaid on Plaid. 
"I had this plaid jacket and plaid 
pants," Mulcahy explains by way of 
excuse for his painful pun on Dylan's 
Blonde on Blonde. "We thought it was 
a pretty good name. We mostly played 
basements. Ours." Rookie Jeff was 
acquired from Durham, Conn., which 
Mulcahy describes as "a farm team of 
great rock musicians. I saw him 
playing at a party there and asked him 
if he wanted to play in a band." Joel, 
who'd never played in a band before 
becoming a member of the Legion, 
came in a trade with Dumptruck, a 
Boston group Mulcahy drummed for. 
"He was a friend of Mike Priggen's. 
We 
needed a 
bassist and Mike 
recommended him." Together they 
make the sort of folk-rock that has 
nothing to do with any folk tradition, 
and less to do with R&B roots. They 
have created their own sound, their 
own musical and lyrical vision. On 
repeated listenings The Backyard sounds 
less and less like any other band and 
more like, well, Miracle Legion, or 
Miracle Legion's soundtrack for the 
great lost Frank Capra movie. 

Maybe it's just this that accounts for 
Miracle Legion's unaccountable 
success: the band has been able to 
create their own sound without the ironic 
distance or alienation of semi-pop or 
avant garde rock. For an independant-
label local group this band has a knack 
for popping up in the darndest places 
-
just take a look at the playlist of 
WPLR, New Haven's album oriented 
rock radio station (which places ML 
right alongside the likes of Springsteen 
and Tina Turner), or in England 
(where their six-city tour was nothing 
short of triumphant), or in Village Voice 
photo coverage of the New Music 
Seminar. 

"Yeah," Mark explains, "we were 
posing as Mitch Ryder's bodyguards. 
That's how we got in that picture. You 
remember Mitch R yder?" Mitch 
Ryder of Mitch Ryder and the Detroit 
Wheels, mid-60s white soul shouter 
who had smashes with "Jenny Take A 
Ride" and "Devil With The Blue 
Dress: that Mitch Ryder? "Yeah. We 
latched onto him, we seemed to have 
this special rapport with him, and we 
were just acting as his body guards. 
We'd stand there with our arms folded 
The New Joumai/Seplember 5, 1986 39 



**An Interview with Miracle Legion**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and if anyone tried to touch him we'd 
slap their hand away. We were back-
stage with him for this artists panel he 
was on with Pete· Shelley, Dwight 
Yoakum, Red Hot Chili Peppers, 
Kurtis Blow, LL Cool J, Lesley Gore. 
He's real out there, completely burnt, 
and we're making these drug cracks. 
Someone says ' .. oh he should meet 
Sid-' 'You gave him ACID? Jesus, he 
can't have that stuff!' Anyways, they 
had the first six rows reserved for 
guests of the panel members and it was 
' ... oh you're with Mitch, aren't you, 
right this way .. .' and they ushered us 
right up to the good seats." 

As for landing their single, "The 
Backyard," on WPLR, Ray was, to say 
the least, shocked. Not that the song 
doesn't deserve airplay; hell, it should 
be Number One with a bullet. Could 
be, 
too. "The Backyard" is a 
groovesome tune built on a solid bass 
hook of stunningly evocative simpli-
city. Like the greatest pop music it 
makes 
perfect 
sense. 
It's 
appre-
hended completely; bass, 
guitar, 
drums, and voice locked into a whole 
greater than the sum of its parts. The 
song has an organic, living quality; it 
wasn't produced, it was born. And like 
the greatest pop music, the lyrics (here 
a remembrance of things past) go 
straight to the heart. You are left 
thinking that every word of it is true, at 
least as long as the music lasts. But 
even so, it has never been the business 
of big-league local radio to promote the 
music of independant local bands. "We 
didn't even send them a copy of the 
record," says Ray. "We had this 
attitude of 'Why bother?' Then one 
night they all came to a 
show. 
Somebody said ' ... omigod, WPLR is 
here.' They loved us and asked us to 
send them a record, which we couldn't 
believe. Phil from Cutler's finally had 
to tell us 'Hey, send these guys a 
record, they're serious.' Being on the 
radio, well, that's been a real thrill for 
me." 

When the band delivers their second 
record there should be plenty more 
thrills in store. Says Ray: "We hope to 
start recording in November and have 
an album out maybe early next year, 
but you don't like to say that. It jinxes 
everything." And, Mark reminds him, 
he was saying the same thing a year 
ago. "The Backyard was wimpy," Ray 
adds. "Acoustic guitars on everything. 
We were more rough and then we got 
wimpy around the time of the album. 
Now we're pretty rough again." That's 
putting it mildly considering the pull-
out-the-stops cover of Led 
Zep's 
"Communication Breakdown" (a real, 
um, crowd pleaser) Miracle Legion 
has added to their set. 

Chances are Miracle Legion will 
leave Connecticut's Incas Records to 
sign with a British label, Making 
Waves. The general plan is to conquer 
Britain and then tackle the U.S. 
England is a small place, which makes 
achieving mass success there an easier 
and more feasible thing than it is here. 
Making sub-culture into pop-culture is 
a way of life for the British in a way it 
never (breakdancing excluded) has 
been in America. Their first full length 
album will have to be imported back to 
their own hometown. But the hope is 
that by that time ML will have risen to 
the top of pops in the U.K., a U.S. 
label will pick them up for American 
distribution, and everyone coast to 
coast will be turned on and tuned in to 
Miracle Legion's rock 'n roll songs of 
innocence and discovery. 

Miracle Legion mines territory that 
rock 'n roll doesn't usually tap into: 
innocence, integrity, the way memory 
defines the present, the way the heart is 
attached. Their lyrics are beautiful and 
simple, without the ironies that have 
haunted rock 'n roll since its ironic 
underpinnings (white kids appro-
priating black music styles) became 
clear: 

It/Unlc il was the lowest day of the year, 
Even still we started foes with the em«rs. 
T1le sweetest man held on at the top of the hill, 
T1le sweetest lady held on to her mmwria. 
T1le world was so big, 
And I was so small, 
Your voice was always the loudest of all. 

The cover of The Backyard is a baby 
picture of Mark Mulcahy playing in 
his yard. Mulcahy is quick to deny the 
record is a childhood album ("we're not 
that smart," he quips), but it's clear 
that the band values innocence and 
simplicity. "Just say hello," begins Side 
Two of The Backyard, "it means a lot to 
me." They have retained the spirit of 
infancy even into adulthood and 
recognize that adult problems are 
problems we've known all our lives. 
When they pose these problems with a 
child's innocence they strike deep 
chords that reverberate through the 
whole of our memories. "Just Say 
Hello" is no Jonathon Richman kiddie 
song, but it brings mystery, childhood 
mystery, 
to adult 
loneliness and 
longing: "The only one in the tree, and 
if I fall will someone pick me up? Just 
say hello, it means a lot to me." 

According to rock 'n roll's mythos, 
rock is youth culture as rebellion, 
electrified sounds of sex or rage. "Let's 
spend the night together," sneered 
Mick Jagger; 
the 
Rolling Stones 
shocked the agents of respectable 
responsibility the same way Elvis' 
swivelling hips had years before and 
Prince's naughtiness would years later. 
But Mark Mulcahy asks "Will you 
wear my coat of butterflies?" In place 
of rebellion, Miracle Legion offers 
innocence; in place of sex, love. 

Their is not a complete acceptance 
of respectable responsibility. "Country 
Boy," a 
song intended for their 
upcoming album, shows both the 
allure and unacceptablility of home 
life. Mulcahy sings of wanting the girl 
next door, with her doll house you can 
stand up in, but something's wrong; he 
can't fit into the old world. "I'm not 
ready, I'm not ready to go. I've been 
wishing for this, but let's wait just a 
little bit longer." Standing on the edge 
of marriage, or some sort of 
commitment, Mulcahy sings from the 
perspective of a 
lost 
boy 
in 
Never Never Land, a perspective rock 
'n roll has never known before. The 
rejection of home life comes from 
understanding, not disdain, and it 
communicates so much more than 
contempt. From the perspective of a 
lost boy comes an adult vision. The 
results are remarkably compelling. 

Sitting in the Almar Diner I pitch all 
this to Mark and Ray. I expect them to 
respond with cliches, the big kind, the 
kind I keep finding in their songs. 
'Yeah,' I'm hoping Mark will say, 'all 
you need is love.' Instead I get a gut-
punch quip. 
Desperate, 
without 
bearings, I play my ace in the hole: 
"A ... urn .. friend of mine once wrote me 
that a Miracle Legion show should be 
more like a child's birthday party than 
a rock concert. .. urn ... what do you 
have to say to that?" 

"If that's his conception of fun, sure," 
quips Mark. 

This is it, I've had enough. This 
from a man who when he performs 
rocks 
back and forth 
with arms 
flopping loosely, like rock's Raggedy 
Andy. This from a man who weaves 
around the stage like a toddler until he 
finds the mike-stand to anchor himself, 
then grabs the mike with both hands, 
closes his eyes, and sings: "Yesterday 
we cut down the apple tree, the sound 
of cracking wood made my little heart 
tremble. I wish I didn't have to try so 
hard, but a little boy has a lot to 
remember." No quip is going to 
account for all that. 

Pressed, Mulcahy says the band's 
relationship to the.ir audience is "like 
when you used to go on vacation with 
your cousins. You're all real uptight 
the first few days 'cause you think 


**Title: Miracle Legion: Hometown Shows**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
they're weird, but then you get more 
comfortable and relax, and everybody 
has a good time. The message of our 
shows is 'let's get together.'" Certainly 
their hometown shows at New Raven's 
premiere new-music nightspa, the Cafe 
Grotto (130 Crown St.), are family 
affairs. When the band showed slides 
of their trip to England in between 
songs at their Welcome Home concert 
last May, it was like they turned the 
place into their living room and invited 
the whole audience over for home 
movies. (It was no less boring than the 
real thing, but that's part of the point, 
dam mit.) And when the show ended 
with a sing-along cover of"Hey jude", 
I felt it all work. I left feeling more 
than the amped-up over-drive of rock 
energy. R enewed, knocked down to 
zero and brought back 
again, 
spiritually revitalized. 

Which is hardly the way I feel 
leaving the Almar Diner. "Any more 
questions? Have you got enough stuff 
for your project?" asks Mark. I nod. 
I'm lost, no platitudes to hold onto. It's 
when I get home that I remember two 
things 
that stop 
my head 
from 
spinning. The first is a Miracle Legion 
lyric that goes "I'm not after an 
explanation. Beauty means different 
things to me, I capture beauty in a 
conversation.'' The second is that right 
before we left the diner Mulcahy told 
me it would be alright to copy a demo 
tape he gave me and send it to that 
friend of mine who thought Miracle 
Legion shows were like 
birthday 
parties. "He sounds like a good guy," 
he said. I hardly had the nerve to tell 
Mark that my, urn, friend was really 
me, that I was just covering my own 
sentimental tracks. But I have this 
feeling he might understand. 


**Title: The Kat's Meow**
**Author: John Schachter**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

Books/John Schachter 
The Kat's Meow 
Krazy Kat: The Comic Art of George 
Herriman 
by Patrick McDonnell, 
Karen O'Connell, and Georgia Riley 
de Havenon 
1986 
Harry 
N. 
Abrams, 
Inc . 
$14.95, 223 pages 
"Jizz! ... POW!" 
With this sound is accomplished the 
central act of one of America's proud-
est artifacts, for it is the sound of a 
brick bouncing ofT the head of Krazy 
Kat, the title character of George 
Herriman's stupendous early and mid-
twentieth century comic strip. What 
seems at first to be a simple, dimwitted 
slapstick routine, is, in fact, 
the 
rehearsing of a wry, witty, tender, and 
ironic destiny. Krazy Kat loves Ignatz 
Mouse, who hates all cats with a 
vengeful passion that finds expression 
in the bricks he constantly hurls 
Krazy-wards. The Kat, for somewhat 
arcane reasons, regards each brick as a 
"nize li'llove tokin." Officer B. Pupp, a 
bastion of law and order, yearns 
romantically for Krazy; whenever pos-
sible, he jails his rival Ignatz for 
assault. 

There is no celebration of violence 
here, as there is in Tom andJerry or the 
infernal Roadrunner. The brick 
functions instead as the key to a 
powerful love triangle; a ceaselessly 
comic web of relationships driven by 
frustrated hope, irrepressible longing, 
and a heartfelt sense of duty . . . no 
kidding. 

Doubters should consult the snazzy, 
new, paperbound collection of Krazy 
Kat daily strips and Sunday pages just 
released by Abrams. Patrick McDon-
nell, Karen O'Connell and Georgia 
Riley De Havenon, the three editors of 
the Abrams project, scrupulously date 
each of the more than two hundred 
strips they present. In addition, they 
include a bibliography of Herriman 
books, a chronological table of his 
career, a note on the provenance of 
their material, and two introductory 
essays. 

The first of these essays is a reprint 
of Gilbert Seldes' appreciation of Krazy 
Kat, taken from Seldes' 1924 book, The 
Seven 
Lively Arts. 
Seldes was an 
enthusiastic booster of popular arts at a 
time when to be such was more re-
markable and momentous than now. 
His scholarly and effusive treatment of 
Herriman ("a great master of the fan-
tastic") is entertaining and readable, if 
something of a period piece. But he is a 
winy and articulate professor, and 
describes several Krazy Kat episodes 
not otherwise included in the book. 

The remainder of the introduction is 
a long and fairly detailed essay on 
Herriman's life and work, written by 
the three editors. From them, we learn 
something about the glamorous life of 
early cartoonists, as well as about 
Herriman in particular. 

With the turn of the century came 
the growing realization on the part of 
newspaper publishers that a popular 
cartoonist could have a powerfully 
salutary effect on circulation. 
Homegrown artists like T.A Dorgan, 
T.S. Sullivant (single panel men), 
Winsor McCay (Little Nmw), and 
Herriman thus found themselves in an 
enviable position, negotlatmg con-
tracts that assured them fame and 
fortune in the growing art departments 
of the 
nation's newspapers and 
magazines. Dissatisfied at one place, 
they could always move on- Her-
riman made a number of treks from 
the West to the East coast and back 
again, finally settling down with the 
Hearst syndicate in 1904. (Hearst 
loved Krazy Kat, and guaranteed 
Herriman a large salary to continue 
the series, even when other strips far 
outclassed Krazy in readership.) 

The biographical essay, illustrated 
with a large number of family photos, 
unpublished Krazy paintings and 
drawings of the Krazy Kat characters as 
well as pre-Kat strips, gives a good 
sense of the kind of person Herriman 
was: iconoclastic, a clever sort of 
populist intellectual, devoted to his 
wife and two daughters, an ardent 
pacifist, vegetarian and animal lover. 

Herriman had a life-long fascination 
with native American culture. Native 
American pottery shows up contin-
ually in Krazy Kat, often balanced 
precariously on the roofs and chimneys 
of buildings. 

Sometimes Navajo 
logograms are incorporated into the 
frames of the strip, either painted on 
furniture or formed in the foliage of a 
topiary tree. Herriman's appreciation 
of Navajo culture and his sensitivity 
towards the Indians' 
position in 
depression America earned him the 
respect of the residents of Kayente, 
Arizona who presented him with a 
blanket with his name woven into it. 
Their region later became the basis for 
the Coconino County setting of Krazy. 

Monument Valley is an amazing 
place, an alien landscape of desert, 
mesa and limestone formations of 
strange and unexpected shapes. The 
Mittens, the Rainbow Bridge, the 
Thunder Needle-all appear in the 
background of Krazy Kat cartoons, and 
all seem as if they were products of 
Herriman's imagination until one sees 
the photographs of them provided by 
the editors. 

If there is a profundity in Krazy Kat, 
it is probably in the settings. They are 
the keys to the personalities of the 
characters and their creator, both in 
the simple sense that they show his love 
for Arizona, and in the sense that, like 
surrealist landscapes, 
they act as 
representations of our subconscious 
visions. 

Certainly Herriman's Coconino is 
not the same place as the reservation in 
Arizona- his scenery is too fluid and 
the climate and geography too 
transitory. Topography, time of day 
and situation change abruptly from 
frame to consecutive frame in Krazy 
Kat. One daily strip, for example, 
shows the characters against a distant 
butte in the first picture, on a darkened 
plain for the second frame, in front of a 
tree for the third picture, and near a 
limestone mound for 
the fourth. 

Sometimes the moon crashes into the 
desert or a distant sea as it sets, kicking 
up a cloud of dust or foam in the 
process. Day changes to night if a 
character is sad. 

But what Krazy Kat mostly is, is 
funny. Very, very funny. Although 
many of the strips end with punch-
lines, and thus share the stru~ture of 
spoken gags, most by far rely on 
stories, drawings, and situations that 
are intrinsically hilarious. Every panel 
is wonderfully funny on its own, 
because every picture has its autono-
mous charge of humor. You do not 
have to know the story or characters of 
Krazy Kat to smile at a frame in which a 
scowling, scruffy, stick-armed mouse 
heaves a brick onto the head of a 
google-eyed, kinky-tailed, starch-
collared cat. As it rapidly approaches 
the horizontal, 
the cat exclaims 
joyfully: "li'l mornings glora -there 
him is-and I'm a heppy, heppy ket." 

The rational parts of our minds 
scream: what the heck is going on 
here? That a mouse would biff a cat 
with a brick seems reasonable, given 
the historical enmity of the two species, 
or at least reasonable within the 
bounds of comic strip rationality. But 
why is the cat so happy about it? Why 
does it speak with such an eccentric 
accent? And what about the scraggly 
pine tree on the horizon in back of 
them- is it preternaturally huge, thus 
dwarfing the house that nestles near its 
trunk, or is it a tiny house, and a 
regulation-sized tree? 

All 
dislocated reality that grounds humor 
is 
present here- no matter how 
familiar we become with Krazy Kat, the 
many layers of absurdity inherent in its 
basic concept persist. 

Another central aspect of Krazy Kat 
is its sensuous celebration of the funny 
sounds of English- a quality of most 
comic discourse which often goes un-
noticed, because of its usual transpar-
ancy. Each of the Coconino characters 
has a distinct way of speakjng. Of these, 
Krazy's is the most 
r~markable­
Seldes accurately described it as "partly 
Dickens and partly Yiddish, and the 
rest is not to be identified, for it is 
Krazy." Joe Storck, a 
mystical 
secondary character, lectures Krazy on 
spritualism; 
his sentence: "yovr 
'ectoplasm' 
passes out of your 
body-and soars out into the limitless 
ether, to roam willy-nilly, unleashed 
and unbound," is remembered by 
Krazy later: "Just imegine having your 
'ectospasm' running around William



**Krazy Kat**
**Author: John Ray Luhto**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and nilliam among the
limitless
etha- Golla, it's imbillivibil." Other
characters speak
with
Chinese,
French, Irish-American or Southern
accents, or speak Spanish (usually
untranslated).
What sex is this amazing Kat, who
loves so unwisely and in turn is the
subject of so much ardour? No one is
sure, least of all Krazy.
Usually
referred to as "he" by his companions
and in captions, in one strip, Krazy
explains to Ignatz that he is enthralled
by "a embarrassment which smacks of
the connubial
I don't know
whether to take unto myself a wife or a
husband." And, when an orphan is left
on his doorstep, he wonders what to be
to it: a father or a mother, "a Unkil or a
Ent."
We see the complex and bizarre
dynamic of the love triangle evolving
from strip to strip in the Abrams book.
In the very first episodes, Ignatz
explains that he is "destined to bounce
a brick off Krazy Kat's' knob day by
day." "In view of all that mouse people
have suffered in the past from 'kats',
who can say that Krazy is not getting
what's coming to him?" he concludes,
as another brick sizzles home. During
a lull in brick tossing, Krazy pines:
"Oh, 'Ignatz', wherefore is you, 'Ignatz'
-long has I waited for you, and yet
you comest not-a-less (sic)." Krazy's is
a beautiful soul, loving every wrong
that is done him (or is it her?); we are
reminded of a simple, Christian saint.
Naturally this state of affairs drives
Ignatz into a frenzy of frustration.
Every line of his body is continually
a-quiver with rage; his mind is taut
with hate. Every one of his missles of
revenge is taken as a reaffirmation of
love; every plot is foiled before it
begins. Nevertheless he clings to the
vain hope that, someday, the Kat will
get his message. This leads to some
wild plot twists, where Krazy and
Ignatz conspire together to get the
Pupp out of their way- collaborators
with very different goals. Ah, the poor
Pupp. He loves Krazy ("that dear, dear
Kat")
with a
dogged,
unrequited
yearning. He persists in protecting
Krazy, against her will, arresting the
sinning mouse whenever he finds him
about his vengeful errand. Not once
does he realize that this will never
impress the Kat, never lead Krazy to
return his love.

Herriman arrived at a combination
of style, concept, content and language
that guaranteed that every strip would
be funny, and deeply so. How could he
lose? Every nuance of his characters,
every element of his design was
charged with wit, and their constant
lack of gratification insured that they
would continue their escapades. Krazy
Kat is, put simply, the greatest comic
strip there
has ever been,
and
l'ierriman, one of America's finest
artists.
Because Krazy ran continuously
from 1914 to 1944, a complete Kat
would take up several large volumes,
even
reprinted
in
the sometimes
annoyingly tiny size chosen by the
Abrams people. Let us hope that this
collection inspires enough
public
interest in Herriman to encourage the
publishers to bring out more and more
collections, until everyone interested in
American popular culture and art has
a shelf of Herriman books. That would
make me heppy, heppy indeed.
•
john Ray &luuhto, '86, was graduaud.from
Brrlc,[ey Coll'f!.' and now /ius rn Boston.
Cartoo11s upn,ud courusy of Kmg F~tzt~us Synduau


**The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 47**

Everyone's busy this time of year, but why not
take time to look into The New Journal?
For the past five years Yale's best writers,
editors, photographers, designers and business
people have dedicated time and energy to this
award-winning magazine.
But we need new people, new talent and new
ideas to keep our magazine alive and growing.
Come to our meeting, meet our staff and learn
about The New Journal. And tell us about your
ideas.
ORGANIZATIONAL
MEETING
7:30 P.M. Tuesday, September 9
Pierson Common Room


**Yale Concert Band**
**Page number(s): 48**

Sixty to seventy select brass, woodwind and percussion players perlormlng from the entire repertoire of symphonic wind
music: marches, classical transcriptions & contemporary works Including specially commissioned compositions.
*Saturday. Oct. 11
8:00p.m .. Woolsey Hall
•Wednesday, Oct. 29
8:00 p.m., Woolsey Hall
*Friday, Dec. 5
*Friday, Feb. 13
8:00p.m., Woolsey Hall
·sunday, Apr. 12
2:00 p.m., Woolsey Hall
·sunday, May 24
7:00 p.m., Old Campus
*May 26- June 8
Parents' Day Concert, with the Yale Glee Club, Yale Sy~ony
&. Whiffenpoota
..
Liberty Concert, sponsored bv Governor O'Neill's Connecticut Centennial
Commission on the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, featuring
Connecticut high school musicians, a guest appearance by Victor Borge,
and the Yale Glee Club and Yale camarata Tickets: 432-4113
Berlioz Requl.,., with the New Haven Symphony Orchestra and
and Howard Untvirslty Choir
ncketa: 778-1444
Winter Concert
Twftlght Concert, Including Tchalkovsl(y's 1812 Overture with live
artillery and the Harknesa Memorial Cerlllon
Concert tour of the Islands of Japan
Yale Jazz Ensemble
Yale Precision Marching Band
A
twenty-piece B1g
Band playing everythmg from
Dixieland to classic Ellmgton and Basie tunes to the
latest contemporary compositions Available for per·
forming for part1es & other festive occasions.
*Thursday, Nov. 6
8:00 p.m. Sprague Hall
*Wednesday, Feb. 25
7:00 p.m. Yale Club of New York
*Wednesday. March 4
8:00 p.m .. Sprague Hall
*Thursday, Apr. 9
8:00p.m. Sprague Hall
125-200 mualc1ans and others both celebrated and
mfamous for a umque blend of musical and top1cal satire
Pflrlormed at the fall '-football games, pep rallies and
the like.
Sept. 20 at
Oct.
Nov.
27
4
11
18
25
at
1
8
15
22
Brown
UConn
Army
Colgate (Band Alumni Day)
Columbia
Penn
Dartmouth
Cornell
Princeton
harvard
Atl Yale Band concerts, except as noted. are tree and open to the public. For more Information about any aspects of the
program. call 432-4111 or stop by 301 Hendrie Hall (185 Elm Street).

