Publication date: DEC 2019
Volume: 52
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: Laura Glesby, Max Graham
- executive editor: Elliot Wailoo
- senior editor: Lily Moore-Eissenberg
- associate editors: Hailey Andrews, Elena DeBre, Beasie Goddu, Alejandra Larriva-Latt, Helena Lyng-Olsen, Jack McCordick, Eli Mennerick, Trish Viveros, Candice Wang
- copy editors: Jisoo Choi, Matthew Kleiner, Yonatan Greenberg, Nicole Jefferson, Sofia Laguarda
- creative director: Chase Westover
- design editors: Rebecca Goldberg, Meher Hans, Zihao Lin, Sam Oldshue
- web manager: Andrew Sheinberg
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Linda Colman
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- point of departure - Sohum Pal
- snapshot - Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits
- snapshot - Candice Wang
- snapshot - Kapp Singer
- essay - Eileen Huang
- cover - Max Graham
- critical angle - Ellie Garland
- endnote - Irene Vázquez


**Title: UNCLEAR CUTTING**
**Author: Max Graham**
**Page number(s): 27**

The Yale Investments Office owns vast timberlands in 
northern New England. Some question whether the land has 
been managed sustainably.


**Title: THE LEFTOVERS**
**Author: Ellie Garland**
**Page number(s): 22**

What happens to the food Yale doesn’t eat?


**Title: CLOUDY WITH A CHANCE OF CHOCOLATE**
**Author: Sohum Pal**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: WELCOMING WORDS**
**Author: Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits**
**Page number(s): 6**

In Fair Haven School’s new STEAM lab, students learn in a groundbreaking bilingual 
education program.


**Title: THE COP’S CONTRACT**
**Author: Candice Wang**
**Page number(s): 11**

A Hamden police officer faces rare criminal proceedings for shooting two unarmed civilians. 
His case reveals just how hard it is to hold the police accountable.


**Title: THE ROAD LESS TRAVELED**
**Author: Kapp Singer**
**Page number(s): 15**

Yale is slowly pedestrianizing streets that run through campus. What does this mean for the 
city?


**Title: FORGETTING EVERYTHING**
**Author: Eileen Huang**
**Page number(s): 20**

A Chinese-American reflection on Yale’s Light Fellowship.


**Title: STERLING’S HOLD ON ME**
**Author: Irene Vázquez**
**Page number(s): 34**



**Title: CLOUDY WITH A CHANCE OF CHOCOLATE**
**Author: Sohum Pal**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On a Friday in October, I wandered 
into a parking lot on Crown Street, 
the roofs of the High Street fraternities 
peeking over the trees. I hoped I had found the 
drop point for Kiki Air. The day was sunny and 
cool.  Overhead, I heard a buzzing noise. Cat and 
Josh pointed up. On the phone, a pilot asked me 
if I was “in a position to receive the drop.” I said 
I was, and a blue cylinder fell from about sixty-
five feet in the air, bouncing against a curb about 
twenty-five feet away from me. I tore open the 
padded cerulean envelope. My Toblerone bar had 
arrived; the drone flew away, arching over a line of 
buildings until it vanished from view.


Yale undergraduates Jason Lu, Josh Ip, and Cat 
Orman hope this might be the future—lightweight 
snacks and sundries delivered by drone. That vision 
is driving Kiki Air, a drone delivery app for Yale 
students, developed by Lu and Ip. As Ip sees it, the 
coming years will almost inevitably include drones 
at our beck-and-call. 


Food delivery services like UberEats already exist 
in New Haven, and as Ip mentioned, the market 
for drone delivery is quickly becoming crowded. 
In 2016, Amazon announced “Prime Air,” a drone 
delivery service whose rollout has been continually 
delayed; Google, UPS and Walmart all have similar 
services in the works. But Ip clarified that Kiki 
Air is not competing in the meal-delivery or the 
package-delivery market, which are Amazon and 
Google’s terrain. Kiki Air’s small drone can only 
carry loads up to six-hundred grams. Rather, Kiki 
Air competes with delivery services like GoPuff, a 
self-described “convenience store delivery app and 
digital convenience retailer” available in dozens 
of U.S. cities, including New Haven, as of May. 
While Kiki Air’s prices are similar to GoPuff’s, 
its delivery time averages about five to six minutes, 
versus GoPuff’s half hour.  Kiki Air currently 
has no minimum price for an order, and no 
delivery fee. 


As Ip explained to me, each morning from 
Wednesday to Sunday, a student pilot picks up 
the drone from “where it lives,” in an apartment 
near Whitney Avenue. The pilot fills two suitcases 
with the day’s inventory—mostly snacks like candy 
or protein bars, but also other convenience store 
items like condoms, menstrual products, phone 
chargers, and toothpaste. The pilot sets up on the 
roof of a parking garage near the Grove Street Indian 
restaurant Sitar and prepares for any calls that come 
in, starting at 12 p.m. Nearby, another certified pilot 
goes to a ninth-floor office space that Kiki Air has 
rented, which the company calls air traffic control. 


The controller can see the drone from the ninth-floor 
window, complying with the “visual line of sight” 
required by FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) 
regulations. That controller also reports on weather 
conditions and generally monitors the airspace to 
watch out for airplanes and other flying objects. At 
dusk, generally around 6 p.m., the controller and 
the pilot pack up, having concluded operations for 
the day. 


FAA regulations generally do not allow drones to 
fly within five miles of an airport, but Kiki Air 
applied for and received a waiver from the FAA 
to conduct its operations near Tweed New Haven 
Airport. In transit, the drone flies a few hundred feet 
above the ground. When it reaches the drop site, it 
descends to about six stories off the ground, then 
releases the order on the pilot’s command.  Orman 
and Ip assured me that the mechanism for dropping 
packages is safe: packages are swathed in bubble 
wrap and cannot fall while the drone is moving. If 
the drone takes a sudden dip in altitude, a parachute 
releases to slow the machine’s fall.


Ip developed the Kiki Air app this past summer, 
and in the fall, he recruited Orman to work on 
marketing and publicity. Lu secured initial funding 
from an angel investor he met while interning at a 
venture capital firm. That investment covers the cost 
of the drone, training, certification, inventory, and 
wages for three to four FAA-certified drone pilots. 
Emerging drone technology is governed by just 
eleven pages of FAA regulations. The pilots at Kiki 
Air, mostly first-years in the Air Force Reserve Officer 
Training Corps program at Yale, have to train and 
take licensure exams at Tweed New Haven airport, 
per the FAA’s guidelines for remote-controlled 
drones. Ip remarked that certifying to be a drone 
pilot is “like going to the DMV.” 


Quinten Hoagland and Bryan Regan, two Kiki Air 
pilots who are first-year students at Yale, wrote over 
email that they took the job because of their interest 
in aviation. Hoagland remarked that the material 
covered by the FAA exam is largely tangential to 
the actual job of a Kiki Air pilot. Hoagland noted, 
“Aside from the ‘flying a drone’ part, the job’s very 
much like bagging groceries, except the bags are 
thick bubble wrap tightly secured around the items.” 
Orders typically begin coming in around 3 p.m. and 
continue until dusk. Kiki Air receives about twenty-
five orders each day. 


I was caught off guard by how Ip and the pilots 
brought the language of daily chores—going to the 
DMV, bagging groceries—to the hyper-futuristic 
experience of drone snack delivery. I wondered, 
briefly, if they had calibrated this language to ease the 
alarm in my mind, my suspicion of the unfamiliar. 
But their language was too casual, too off-the-cuff. 
Rather, it seems that the founders and employees of 
Kiki Air are entirely at ease with the robotic future 
that faces us.


Still, Hoagland remarks that he took the job with 
Kiki Air in part because piloting drones sounded 
“slightly bizarre.” As Kiki Air’s early success 
demonstrates, drone delivery may be commercially 
viable, but it retains a certain novelty. There is a 
chance that drones will fill the sky someday, and 
airdropped packages of chips and candy will be de 
rigeur for all-nighters. Indeed, Ip, Lu, and Orman 
are betting on it.

– Sohum Pal is a senior 
in Branford College.
Illustrations by Sam Oldshue
Design by Rebecca Goldberg



**Title: WELCOMING WORDS**
**Author: Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits**
**Page number(s): 6**

“¡N
ecesitamos ayuda!” pleaded one of the students 
as he tugged the collar of his white uniform 
polo shirt, exasperated because the digital Sasquatch 
on his screen wouldn’t move. “You just need to 
press here,” replied the young girl at his side, 
“See?” Although their teacher had been leading the 
coding lesson in Spanish, the two kindergarteners 
comfortably switched from one language to the 
other. These students, along with eight of their 
peers, huddled around a table inside their school’s 
new language development STEAM (Science, 
Technology, Engineering, Art, and Math) lab, 
the latest addition to a budding bilingual literacy 
project at Fair Haven School.


With fifty-three million people of Latin American 
descent, the United States boasts the second-largest 
population of Spanish speakers next to Mexico and is 
expected to be the largest Spanish-speaking country 
in the world by 2050. In places like New Haven’s Fair 
Haven neighborhood, whose population is over 60 
percent Hispanic, bilingualism is already the norm. 
As of last year, 46 percent of students in New Haven 
Public Schools have Latin American heritage, and 
eighteen percent are English Language Learners 
(ELL). Of those ELL students, 85 percent speak 
Spanish as their native language. Fair Haven School 
has the largest share of ELL students out of all schools 
in the city of New Haven.


Although the United States has no official language, 
English has been the traditional language of 
instruction in most classrooms across the country. 
Hispanic students, according to a 1997 report by the 
National Research Council, were once expected to 
“sink or swim” in a school environment that didn’t 
take their linguistic background into account. In 
February, the National Center for Education Statistics 
reported consistent underperformance in reading 
and math by Hispanic students when compared to 
their white counterparts in the past three decades. 
But dual-language programs, which are specifically 
designed to make education for ELL students more 
equitable, have been shown to increase academic 
achievement in these populations.


For the last four years, Fair Haven School—a 
district magnet school that largely serves residents of 

Photography by Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits



**Title: Fair Haven School's Bilingual STEAM Lab**
**Author: Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2019
 7
the Fair Haven neighborhood—has been adapting 
to community needs by shifting its curriculum 
towards a dual-language immersion program. 
Under this model, students are taught all subjects 
in both English and Spanish, encouraging native 
speakers of both languages to become bicultural 
and biliterate. The program has grown to include 
one more grade each year since its inception and 
is currently offered for grades K-3. Along with its 
new STEAM lab, the dual-language program 
represents a break from traditional education for 
non-anglophone students.

Following a giddy group of children walking into 
school after a field trip, I sat down to talk with 
Heriberto Cordero, the enthusiastic and down-to-
earth principal of Fair Haven School, the largest 
elementary school in the district. Every once in 
a while, our conversation paused when students 
came into his office—where his doors were always 
open—or when he stepped out to greet someone’s 
grandmother. Cordero views his close relationship 
with students and their families as a point of pride.

Born and raised in New Haven, Cordero learned 
Spanish from his Puerto Rican family at home 
and only learned English once he started going to 
school. Cordero credits New Haven for much of 
his own education—the city’s New Haven Promise 
scholarship program gave him the opportunity 
to obtain a bachelor’s and master’s degree at 
Quinnipiac University on a full ride. In return, he 
wants to build up the community that so profoundly 
informed his own life. Cordero noticed that New 
Haven’s language programs needed dramatic 
improvement. “It’s something so simple, showing 
the students that we appreciate their language,” he 
said. “Growing up here, it wasn’t like that. The only 
valued language was English—you could forget the 
rest. Spanish, Arabic… nonsense!”

When Cordero began working at Fair Haven 
School five years ago, the ultimate goal of the 
ELL programs at the school had been to transition 
students to a monolingual, English classroom as 
quickly as possible. However, this emphasis on 
English acquisition risks the students’ losing their 
native language, which Cordero sees as a problem.

“Here at Fair Haven, we value all languages,” 
Cordero said. “Your language is not something 
I want to take away. It’s something we should 
nurture and support as a school.” Cordero’s dream is 
eventually to have an entirely bilingual school.

Such a dream was hardly imaginable to me when 
my parents, both immigrants from Peru, took me 
to my first day of school in a small Virginian town. 
Like Cordero, I was born in the United States but 
grew up only speaking Spanish at home. When I 
walked into the classroom, it was like stepping into 
an entirely different country. I didn’t learn to speak 
in a way my classmates could understand until about 
halfway through kindergarten, and, even then, I had 
difficulty managing the foreign sounds of English. 
My kindergarten teacher tried to teach herself some 
Spanish so that I could feel included in her classroom, 
but there was nothing remotely comparable to Fair 
Haven School’s dual-language immersion program, 
let alone a bilingual STEAM lab.

The language development STEAM lab is the first 
of its kind in the district, and its implementation 
has set Cordero’s dual-language program apart from 
the others in New Haven. As we spoke in his office, 
Cordero spotted Francisco Cajaraville Bonilla, the 
bilingual teacher from Spain in charge of the new 
STEAM lab, and invited him to join us. Our ensuing 
conversation flowed between English and Spanish, 
with tinges of Spanish, Puerto Rican, and Peruvian 
accents coloring our words.


Regardless of what language the students speak, 
Cajaraville argued, the lab—which functions as a 
weekly “specials” class alongside music, art, and 
“YOUR LANGUAGE IS 
NOT SOMETHING I 
WANT TO TAKE AWAY. 
IT’S SOMETHING WE 
SHOULD NURTURE 
AND SUPPORT AS 
A SCHOOL.”


--- Page 8 ---

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
physical education—allows them to use the 
abstract concepts they learn in math and language 
courses and apply them to something practical 
that they can visualize. Depending on the class’s 
dominant language, Cajaraville pushes students to 
learn the vocabulary for the technology they use 
in the less dominant tongue. If students are more 
comfortable with Spanish, for example, Cajaraville 
teaches them the terminology in English but 
provides definitions in Spanish.

Cajaraville decided it would be easier to show 
me how his classroom functions rather than to 
explain it, so he invited Principal Cordero and 
me to observe his Spanish-language kindergarten 
computer science class. Students were learning 
the fundamentals of coding through a tactile iPad 
game called Coding Awbie. In the game, players 
put together command blocks with buttons that 
guide a Sasquatch-like figure through a maze. As 
Cajaraville stepped over robot mazes and picked 
up 3D-printed action figures that former students 
had made, he pointed out how the children were 
working together, emphasizing his efforts to teach 
the students what he calls “transversal values” like 
collaboration, cooperation, and nonviolence to 
achieve their goals.

As Cajaraville showed showed me the lab’s 
equipment, a little girl with a ponytail trailed  
curiously behind her teacher, hoping he would 
make the small blue robot move again.

Technology, like the bilingual nature of the 
classroom, allows for individualization, Cajaraville 
said. “It allows each student to go at their own 
pace, and the teacher can make sure no one gets 
left behind without holding the more advanced
students back.” If students want to keep going, they 
can keep going. Two of the girls from his second-
grade class—who, according to Cajaraville, once 
started crying because the Internet was down 
and they couldn’t code—ended up writing over a 
thousand lines of code that year, more than doubling 
the other students’ averages. One seventh-grader 
who learned about music editing from Cajaraville 
two years ago now makes music mashups and posts 
them onto his YouTube channel, which currently 
has over one hundred thousand subscribers.

Although the class is officially bilingual, coding 
is another language taught at the school, and it’s one 
the teachers are still learning as well. Cajaraville 
uses the MIT-developed visual coding language 
Scratch with his students, but one of them, a boy 
named Juan, came in one day with questions about 
Python, a more advanced language. “I had no idea 
how to use Python,” said Cajaraville, “but I told 
him not to worry. We’re going to learn together.” 
In a STEAM lab like his, where the transmission 
of knowledge is no longer unilateral, the traditional 
concept of a teacher dissolves. Cajaraville argued 
that the “banking” model of education—in which 
the teacher has the knowledge and deposits 
it into the child—is no longer considered the 
most effective. “There are too many things the 
teacher doesn’t know, but if the students want 
to learn, we’ll either learn together, or they’ll 
teach me. Knowledge needs to be transmitted in 
every direction.”

Cajaraville now spends a lot of time in the local 
public library studying more advanced coding so 
he can help his students push their own intellectual 
boundaries. Cajaraville’s students are eager to 
learn—one even expressed wanting to program his 
own version of the video game Fortnite—and he’s 
willing to help them get there.

For Cordero, this language development 
STEAM lab proves something very important about 
the necessity of Fair Haven School’s dual-language 
immersion program; namely, that language is often 
one of the only barriers that prevent these kids from 
excelling in STEAM fields. “Five years ago, the kids 
here never had the opportunity” to learn computer 
science, especially in their own language, Cordero 
said. “Now I have a school of nine hundred students 
who are way more advanced than I am. I am so 
“IN A STEAM LAB LIKE HIS, 
WHERE THE TRANSMISSION 
OF KNOWLEDGE IS NO 
LONGER UNILATERAL, THE 
TRADITIONAL CONCEPT OF 
A TEACHER DISSOLVES.”


--- Page 9 ---

 9
– Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits is a 
junior in Trumbull College.
proud! It doesn’t matter if you don’t speak English, 
that doesn’t hold you back anymore.”

In Cordero’s and my own experience, starting 
school only knowing Spanish led many teachers to 
assume that the non-anglophone children were less 
intelligent or capable because they didn’t understand 
the material. In Fair Haven, however, students are 
working on advanced coding projects from a young 
age. The issue clearly wasn’t the material. It was the 
language. “In order to gain bilingual proficiency in 
a language, it takes about seven years of consistent 
work,” said Cordero. “Are you going to wait seven 
years to start teaching these children? Absolutely not. 
The learning has to continue, and that’s what we try 
to do here.”

While the burgeoning dual-language immersion 
program has brought positive change to the school, 
it is still in its formative stage. As more and more 
refugees and immigrants resettle in Fair Haven, 
the demand for educational resources in languages 
other than English and Spanish is also rising. During 
a parent-teacher conference, an Afghan family 
mentioned to Cordero that their children were 
coming home having forgotten some of their native 
Pashto—now the second-most spoken non-English 
language in Fair Haven, followed by Arabic—since 
they couldn’t practice it at school. When they asked 
Coredero  what could be done, he immediately 
talked to New Haven’s ELL Programs Director 
Pedro Mendía-Landa. “We’re now seeing about 
incorporating Pashto lessons for these students for 
about twenty minutes per day,” Cordero said.

Even with the dedication that administrators and 
teachers like Cordero and Cajaraville demonstrate 
to their students, maintaining a program like this is 
not an easy job. Finding teachers with the linguistic 
capabilities and the necessary certifications to 
teach in multilingual environments is difficult, but 
retaining them is even harder. “It’s a grueling job,” 
Cordero said. Bilingual teachers need to relay the 
same material twice, adapting it to two groups of 
students with different first languages. The New 
Haven Independent reported in November of last 
year that New Haven’s public school system has 
approximately fifty certified bilingual teachers for 
the more than 3,500 ELL students in the district. 
Hiring more and retaining the few they have is of the 
utmost importance.

Although 
there 
are 
similar 
dual-language 
immersion programs across the country, Cordero 
is confident that none has a language development 
STEAM lab as good as his. Once he realizes his plan 
to expand the program to every grade in the school, 
Cordero said, “Va a ser nítido”—it will be amazing—
“because it will be a program like no other.” With 
diligent and motivated educators like the ones at Fair 
Haven School, students may soon no longer have 
to dream—as I did—about attending an entirely 
bilingual school.



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Friede auF erden
Yale Schola Cantorum
Danish National Vocal Ensemble
David Hill, conductor
Works by Nielsen, Strauss, 
Schoenberg, and others
Friday, November 15 · 7:30 PM
Battell Chapel
Advent ConCert
Yale Camerata
Marguerite L. Brooks, conductor
Works by Persichetti, Susa, Finzi, 
Herzogenberg, Olson, Goss, and Bach
Saturday, December 7 · 7:30 PM
Art SongS
Yale Voxtet
Bernarda Fink, artistic director
Tomoko Nakayama, piano
Friday, December 13 · 7:30 PM
Marquand Chapel (409 Prospect St.)
Choral and Vocal Music
Guest artists perform on the 
Newberry Memorial Organ in 
Woolsey Hall
rAChel lAurin
Works by Buxtehude, Franck, Brahms, 
and Laurin
Sunday, November 24 · 7:30 PM
Great Organ Music at Yale
Exhibition
in Miller Hall 
406 Prospect St.
deFiant SpiritS: 
Fernando Brito’S 
Sinaloa
Award-winning Mexican 
photographer captures the 
resilience of Sinaloa culture in the 
midst of the criminalized state
September–December 13
Weekdays 9–4 (except holidays)
voiCeS from PriSon
Incarcerated men re-imagine  
The Divine Comedy
Sunday, December 7 · 4 PM
Journey to the heart  
oF the iraqi MaqaM
Iraqi vocalist Hamid Al-Saadi with 
Safaafir
Sunday, January 18 · 4:30 PM
Luce Hall Auditorium
roomful of teeth
the dublin guitAr 
QuArtet
Nico Muhly: How Little You Are
Saturday, February 1 · 7:30 PM
Guest Artists and Special Events
YAle 
inStitute 
of SACred 
muSiC 
eventS
All events free; no tickets 
required except where noted.
ism.yale.edu


<br>

**Title: THE COP’S CONTRACT**
**Author: CANDICE WANG**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

NOVEMBER 2019
 11
J
udge Patrick J. Clifford tapped the 
microphone in front of him. It was 10:53 a.m. 
on Tuesday, November 5, the windiest day of 
the week, but within the windowless courtroom on 
the sixth floor of the New Haven County Courthouse, 
the air was musty and warm. Clifford announced,  
“This is State v. Devin Eaton.”
Officer Eaton, dressed in a gray suit, his sideburns 
neatly trimmed, strode into the small courtroom 
with Win Smith III, his attorney. Smith declared 
Eaton’s not guilty plea. Within ten minutes, Judge 
Clifford recorded Hamden police officer Devin 
Eaton’s not guilty plea on the docket and announced 
his next court date, December 10. Just as quickly as 
he had entered, Eaton disappeared from the room. 
He didn’t say a word.
Last April, while on duty as a Hamden police 
officer, Eaton shot an unarmed woman, Stephanie 
Washington, 22, in the face. Despite increasing 
pressure from activists and the instatement of Eaton’s 
felony charges on October 21, he still retains his 
police badge and walks free, having paid $100,000 in 
bail on the day of his arrest.
Eaton was the first Connecticut officer to be 
charged for an on-duty shooting in fourteen years, 
according to the Yale Daily News. His felonies include 
one count of first-degree assault and two accounts 
of reckless endangerment. But Eaton’s movement 
through the judicial process, state investigation, and 
internal police investigation has been hindered by a 
collective bargaining agreement, or CBA, between 
Hamden’s Police Labor Union and the town’s police 
department. In the state of Connecticut, around a 
hundred municipalities have signed police CBAs, 
since the nineteen-sixties. These contracts originally 
guaranteed reasonable work hours, healthcare, 
and protected child labor, but they have also made 
it harder to hold police officers accountable for 
violations of the law. The Hamden Police Department 
is one of several departments across the nation that 
has struggled to fire an officer for misconduct due to 
the terms of a CBA.
*
The incident that has tested the limits of local 
police accountability systems occurred six months 
ago in a matter of minutes. At 4:20 a.m. on April 16, a 
clerk working the night shift at Go On gas station in 
Hamden called 911. The clerk told the operator that 
an African American male with dreadlocks, who was 
driving a red car with a female passenger, pulled a 
gun on a newspaper delivery employee to ask him for 
money. Earlier in the night, the clerk said, that same 
man had been “harassing” a different customer.
Hamden Police immediately sent officers Devin 
Eaton and Keron Bryce to Dixwell Avenue, where 
the two suspects had fled, according to the clerk. 
A dispatch went out to both New Haven Police 
and Yale Police, stating, “Just had a street robbery 
happen in our town, was heading in your direction 
on Dixwell Avenue, with a gun used in a street 
robbery,” according to the State’s Attorney Report.
Eaton and Yale officer Terrance Pollock drove 
separately onto Argyle Street, lined by four beige-
gray houses interspersed by vacant yards. Moments 
later, Paul Witherspoon arrived at the street in a red 
vehicle with Washington in the passenger seat. Just 
when Witherspoon emerged from the car with his 
hands rising into the air, Officer Eaton unholstered 
his handgun and fired in the direction of the car. 
Witherspoon ducked back into the car. 
Eaton says that in this moment, he feared for 
his life. “As he began to turn towards me, I saw 
the operator begin to raise his right arm up and it 
appeared that he was holding an object in his right 
hand, which appeared to be a gun,” he said in 
testimony included in the State’s Attorney Report.
As Witherspoon reentered the car, Eaton moved 
to the rear, still firing. He advanced to the other side 
of the car, where he shot Stephanie Washington in 
the face. In total, Eaton fired thirteen bullets before 
he fled down Argyle Street. Pollock, who fired three 
bullets, was grazed in the leg by one of Eaton’s.
Later in his testimony, Eaton claimed that he 
thought he was acting in self-defense. “I was afraid 
that the operator was going to shoot me and cause 
me serious bodily harm or death.” 
However, the Report’s account of Witherspoon’s 
testimony states that Witherspoon “never did 
anything to provoke the police to shoot at him. He 
was following the orders from the police officer.” 
When exiting his car, he pushed open the door with 
his left hand and stuck both arms out the door first to 
indicate that he had no weapon. Later investigations 
revealed that both Witherspoon and Washington 
were unarmed.
“[Eaton is] responding to what he believes is an 
attempted gun robbery,” Win Smith III, Officer 
Eaton’s attorney, told me on the phone, two days 
after the trial. “The man gets out of the car quickly. 
He can’t see his hands. He believes there’s a gun 
involved. He can’t see the person’s hand, and he 
fires.” 
Washington later recounted in the report that 
she was leaning back between the driver’s and 
passenger’s seat to duck for cover. “It was like being 
in a nightmare,” she said. “I thought I was going to 
die.” 
Both parties—Eaton and the two victims—claimed 
to have feared for their lives. Yet in the months that 
followed the shooting, members of the public have 
debated whether Eaton’s fears were justified. Eaton 
says he thought he was facing armed suspects in a 
robbery. But he, too, was armed—and as a police 
officer, he had the ability to call back-up.
The week after the shooting, New Haven’s 
streets flooded with protesters and signs; Wall 
Street was awash with a sea of passionate students 
and community members throughout the week, 
demanding the disarmament of Yale police officers 
and the discharge of Officer Eaton.
One of the New Haven activists, Kerry Ellington, 
believes that Eaton is a criminal, and should be 
treated as one. “What we witnessed was two officers 
jumping out of a car and playing video games that 
night,” Ellington said, speaking metaphorically. 
“There were children who were terrified that night. 
They heard the gunshots and ducked down.”
Ellington wants Eaton to be viewed by the court 
first as a citizen, then a police officer. “There needs 
to be immediate consequences,” Ellington said. “The 
fact that they’re being held to a different standard 
and the process for police officers is different than 
what any other human being would go through. It’s 
egregious. It shows that our system is compliant with 
police violence.”
But any immediate consequences for Eaton 
have been stalled by labor contracts that Hamden 



**Title: Hamden Police Officer’s Felony Charges and Collective Bargaining Agreements**
**Author: Candice Wang**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2019
 13
can’t legally circumvent. These types of contracts, 
called collective bargaining agreements, or CBAs, 
first originated in 1806, when skilled shoemakers in 
Philadelphia gathered together to demand higher 
wages, forming the first collective bargaining 
agreement, or CBA. Since then, labor unions in 
hundreds of other industries have joined their ranks 
to protect basic rights such as limited work hours, 
child labor laws, and healthcare. CBAs are essential 
for protecting workers, but they also have some 
drawbacks. Police labor unions, which originally 
formed in the nineteenth century to push for limited 
working hours, began negotiating strict CBAs with 
local municipal governments. These contracts 
must be signed by both parties, and voted upon by 
legislative councils for approval every eight years. 
According to ACLU activist Melvin Medina, 
Hamden’s police commission, which acts as a 
governing body for the police department, should 
have the power to investigate and discipline, and 
discharge officers. Yet the police commission lost 
these powers when it signed the CBA with Hamden’s 
police labor union. “The town willingly negotiated 
its rights away,” said Medina. “It’s actually the mayor 
and the legislative council that’s agreeing to this.”
Medina suggested that the town signed the CBA 
because it has set a precedent for decades of signing 
these agreements. Many legislative council members 
also may not be reading through the entire contract, 
Medina said—at least, that was the case in Hartford. 
If the legislative council members had actually 
received a full copy of the agreement, he believes they 
would push back on it. Various articles of Hamden’s 
agreement override the police commission’s power 
to discipline police. The contract requires that a 
written complaint be signed by the complainant and 
submitted within sixty days of an incident; otherwise, 
no disciplinary action can be taken. “This creates a 
system in which you time yourself out,” Medina said. 
The agreement also allows for gaps in police officers’ 
files—making it possible for recorded histories of a 
police officer’s actions to be incomplete. “How many 
complaints has [Eaton] gotten in the past?” Medina 
questioned. “We actually don’t know, since it’s not 
in his file.” 
In reality, according to two members of Hamden’s 
legislative council, the entire collective bargaining 
agreement has been shown to all members. When 
asked whether she’d read through the CBA, member 
Judy Clouse said, “Yes, I did. However, it was more of 
a, I need to sit with this understand it more, and not, 
I need to have it changed immediately. Now that I’ve 
been in for two years, I think there are changes that 
can be made.”
Clouse hesitated when asked about the plausibility 
of future negotiations to alter the CBA. “I hope there 
will be negotiations,” she said. 
Legislative council president Michael McGarry, 
on the other hand, was more explicit about the 
reality of CBAs undergoing any future change. 
“Negotiations are hard,” McGarry said. “It’s hard to 
get changes into the union contract. Not to say that 
it’s impossible.” 

In order to discipline Eaton, the Hamden police 
department must hold a hearing by December 
21,  sixty days after his felony charges were brought 
forth by the state on October 21. Activists worry that 
the city will take no action, and that Eaton’s pay 
will be reinstated in the new year, sustaining his 
employment and status as a police officer. However, 
Michael McGarry, president of the Hamden 
Legislative Council, claims that there is a reason 
for the CBA’s massive power: “to protect labor folks, 
so that towns can’t make some resolution that takes 
away workers’ rights,” McGarry said in an interview 
on WNHH Radio. According to McGarry the drawn-
out investigations into Eaton’s conduct are slow for a 
reason. “Everything seems to be working,” McGarry 
said. “It just takes a little longer. Part of the reason 
for that is that we need to make sure that everything 
is done as close to perfect as humanly possible. We 
want to make sure that there’s no automatic appeal 
to his termination.”	
Medina called McGarry’s argument “a red 
herring.”  He said that the CBA does not actually 
prevent the city of Hamden from organizing an 
independent investigation into Eaton before the 
state’s investigation concluded. Frustrated with the 
city’s lack of action, the ACLU filed a public records 
request, inquiring about a policy that keeps the city 
from conducting an independent investigation. 
Medina said the city “did not produce any documents 
backing this up.”
In Medina’s ideal world, the city of Hamden would 
instate an independent investigative body to deal 
with cases like Eaton’s. Completely unaffiliated with 
the police department and police commission, the 


agency would have the power to objectively analyze 
police misconduct cases. “We need more democratic 
control over policing,” Medina said. “In Hamden, 
you see a [police commission] that has the power to 
hold police accountable, but for legal reasons, are 
not able to.” 
When 
asked 
whether 
two 
simultaneous 
investigations into Eaton are allowed under Hamden 
policy, both Clouse and McGarry did not comment. 
However, McGarry offered, “I don’t blame the state 
attorney or anyone for trying to take all the time they 
can to make sure that it is done really well.”
Clouse, on the other hand, warned that “If there 
are two different investigations going on [at the 
same time], that can throw the whole thing off,” 
giving Eaton a chance to appeal. She wants to follow 
protocol as closely and slowly as possible. In the 
eyes of these council members, slow means careful. 
And careful is a means to construct a foolproof case 
against Eaton that won’t be appealed. 
Activists, however, still push to break down this 
bureaucratic system that essentially has its hands 
tied.


At the Hamden Memorial Town Hall, the 
microphone shut off at around 5:50 p.m. on 
November 13, but Roxana Walker-Canton, activist 
and Hamden resident, soldiered on. “My name is 
Roxie,” she said. Her voice was muffled, her back 
turned to the crowd as she stood at the podium at 
Hamden’s monthly police commission meeting on 
November 13. Walker-Canton and her pastel sweater 
struck a soft contrast to the gray-and-white garbed 
members of the Hamden Police Commission, seven 
of whom sat in a semi-circle before her.
One of the commissioners shook his head before 
leaning into his microphone. “I don’t think the 
microphone’s working,” he said in a matter-of-fact 
tone.
A woman, seated in the crowd behind the podium 
where Walker-Canton stood, whispered to her peers, 
“They don’t care if they can’t hear us anyway.”
After a few tweaks, the microphone revived. Walker-
Canton’s voice echoed against the olive-colored walls 
of the town hall.  The meeting resumed—the sixth 
since the shooting. And still, Washington’s shooting 
wasn’t written on the meeting agenda. The activists’ 
demands—to hold Eaton accountable through the 
justice system and to discharge him—seemed to 
have gone unheard. 
Six months after Eaton pulled the trigger, tensions 
between activists and police are rising. A series of 
steps toward consequences—the State’s decision to 
charge Eaton as a felon, Eaton’s recent not guilty 
plea, and the ticking of the clock as the December 21 
deadline for Hamden Police’s hearing—have given 
activists hope that perhaps this time, justice within 
the courtroom will be served. 
“My name is Roxie,” Walker-Canton repeated 
in a low, steady voice. “I am appalled at the lack 
of attention placed on this case. I am appalled that 
[Stephanie] hasn’t been put on the agenda until 
now. Their bodies were put in a situation where they 
could’ve been killed. The commission needs to see 
that this is important. It’s a public health issue when 
you talk about police brutality.”
The crowd exploded into snaps. Ellington, dressed 
in muted baby blue,  stood amongst a crowd of 
around one hundred protesters holding “JUSTICE 
FOR STEPHANIE AND PAUL” posters. 
“Talk about it,” Ellington yelled.
As Walker-Canton continued speaking into the 
microphone, her voice passionate, rising in volume, 
the seven commissioners stared straight ahead past 
her, expressions blank.
—Candice Wang is a junior in Berkeley 
College and an associate editor for 
The New Journal.



**Title: The Road Less Traveled: Yale and the Pedestrianization of New Haven Streets**
**Author: Kapp Singer**
**Page number(s): 15**

 15
W
all Street seems like just another 
minor thread in New Haven’s urban 
fabric. Physically, it boasts nothing 
remarkable except maybe the size of its potholes, 
although it is a little wonky, running one-way 
eastbound three blocks from College to Orange 
and one-way westbound on its final block between 
State and Orange. But the street’s history, and that 
of similar streets running through Yale’s campus, 
unveil a deeper story about the fraught relationship 
between Yale and New Haven. 
The street is only six blocks long. Walking west 
along Wall on a crisp sunny day, I pass several 
parking lots, a daycare center, and two churches. 
On the corner of Wall and Church, sun reflecting 
off the green glass Chase Bank tower casts surreal 
reflections on the pavement beneath my beat-up 
white Nikes. Moving further, the first signs of Yale 
gradually appear. Gothic spires slowly fill my vision, 
and by the time I reach the intersection of Wall and 
College, I’m encircled by the campus: meticulously 
planted flower beds, sturdy wooden benches, and 
students bustling to and from class.
This past summer, Yale turned a section of Wall 
into a pedestrian walkway. But the story of Yale’s 
takeover really began in 1990, when the University 
secured the rights to restrict vehicle traffic on Wall 
Street and High Street for twenty years. The deal 
cost Yale $1.1 million up front, with an investment 
of more than $50 million in New Haven over the 
following ten years.
In 2011, the University and the city revisited the 
original agreement. After intense debate about what 
the future of the streets should look like, lawmakers 
failed to reach a decision. In the meantime, Yale 
crafted a new proposal—one that would allow the 
University to purchase the streets outright for $3 
million with no future payments.
When this plan was brought to a vote on June 3, 
2013, the aldermanic chamber erupted. Protestors 
stood in the back of the hall chanting “Whose streets? 
Our streets. Whose streets? Our streets” and “New 
Haven is not for sale!” Cops eventually escorted 
the protestors out of city hall as they belted the 1931 
United Mine Workers union song “Which Side Are 
You On.” After a short recess, the protestors were let 
back in, and the vote was conducted: the sale passed 
twenty one to eight. The city needed to fill a hole in 
its annual budget, and an immediate infusion of $3 
million proved too tempting for a majority of alders 
to turn down.
Two pairs of waist-height black plastic signs 
bookend Wall between College and High. The signs 
read “CLOSED TO TRAFFIC” in white serif font 
on a blue background, an unmistakable graphic 
identity.  This blue-and-white signature, a low-profile 
marker of an urban crusade, defines Yale’s territory 
within New Haven. 
THE ROAD
LESS
TRAVELED
S N A P S H O T
Yale is slowly pedestrianizing streets that run 
through campus. What does this mean for the 
city?



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Kapp Singer**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Justin Elicker, New Haven’s mayor-elect who was 
an alder during the controversy in 2013, told me 
about his opposition to the sale: selling the street 
eliminates the city’s “ability to choose how to use 
that street in the future” and “the amount that was 
being offered was very, very low.”


Doug Hausladen, another alder at the time, also 
voted against the deal. He now serves as the director 
for Transportation, Parking, & Traffic for New 
Haven. On my bike ride down to the Clerk’s Office 
to retrieve Board of Alders meeting minutes, I spotted 
him. I had been trying to reach him, but my emails 
kept getting sucked into the bureaucratic vortex. As 
he was getting out of a silver Buick, I recognized 
his bearded face and shouted, “Doug!” Briefcase in 
hand, he halted his beeline towards the municipal 
building at 200 Orange Street and turned to face me. 
I introduced myself, but he seemed to be in a rush, 
so we exchanged phone numbers and agreed on a 
time to speak the next day.


What upset Hausladen most about the street sale 
was its indefinite nature. Even though Yale assured 
the Board of Alders that it would keep the street open 
to the walking public after the purchase, Hausladen 
argued, “You and I both can see a world where there 
is no way to legally hold them to that.” Current plans 
indicate the new plaza will remain accessible to 
everyone, but Yale’s ownership effectively stretches 
to infinity. “Forever is a long time. Put it that way,” 
Hausladen said. “Even I have a really hard time 
understanding what forever is.”


Hausladen sees the university’s tendency to buy 
and close off vehicular space as a mission to isolate 
the campus from the city. In fact, fifty years ago, Elm 
Street almost went the way Wall has gone today. But 
instead of peaceful protests, there were aggressive 
altercations, revealing that New Haven’s streets are 
an arena of town-gown tensions.


Before Morse and Stiles were built in the early 
1960s, the northwest border of campus was defined 
by two high schools: Commercial and Hillhouse. 
Every afternoon at 2:30, students would make their 
way home after school down Elm Street, and Yalies 
would heckle and pelt them with snowballs. The 
high school students would jeer back, “if you can’t 
get a date, get a Yalie.” “There was a long period 
in which Elm Street was a place of high tension,” 
veteran Yale administrator Sam Chauncey explained 
to me. 


When I met Chauncey in Atticus cafe, he was 
sitting alone at a large round table casually sipping 
an iced tea. Without getting up, he extended his 
hand for a shake, warmly inviting me to sit down. 
Chauncey began working for the Yale administration 
immediately after graduating in 1957, and by 1963 
he was appointed special assistant to University 
President Kingman Brewster. After working for Yale 
for almost 30 years, Chauncey is now retired and 
These four signs, in conjunction with new paving, 
bike racks, and benches, represent the first stage of 
Yale’s latest project to pedestrianize Wall Street. The 
Yale Daily News reported in September that by 2020, 
Yale plans to have cordoned off an additional block 
of Wall as well as an adjacent block of High Street 
so as to surround the forthcoming Schwarzman 
Center, renovated student life complex, with verdant 
walkable plazas.


--- Page 17 ---

NOVEMBER 2019
 17
lives in New Haven, volunteering as a student advisor 
for Yale College and giving alumni talks.


Last spring I wrote an op-ed in the Yale Daily News 
about jaywalking on Elm Street, in which I had jokingly 
proposed routing cars through an underground tunnel 
to keep street-crossers safe from oncoming traffic. Right 
after the article ran, Chauncey emailed me to say that 
Yale had actually explored that very idea in the 1960s. 
I sat down with him to see what he remembered about 
the initiative.


Chauncey explained that town-gown tension 
reached its zenith on March 17, 1959, during the annual 
St. Patrick’s Day parade down Elm Street.


“There had been a very early snowstorm. Wet snow. 
Perfect snowball snow,” Chauncey said. As the parade 
progressed down Elm, hundreds of Yale students began 
to bombard the paraders with their hard-packed, snowy 
projectiles. Some aggressors posted up on the upper 
floors of what was then Calhoun College, turning dorm 
rooms into makeshift turrets. New Haven Police chased 
students into college courtyards, swinging nightsticks. 
An all-out brawl ensued, students beating officers, 
officers beating students. 


The following morning, the Yale Daily News reported 
that “for an hour yesterday afternoon New Haven had 
the appearance of being a city at war.” A photograph 
taken during the riot shows a Nazi flag displayed in the 
window of a room in Hopper College, a sign that bigotry 
had been swirling around parts of the student body. A 
2001 issue of the Yale Alumni Magazine reported that 
the riot was thought to be motivated by anti-Catholic 
sentiment towards the St. Patrick’s Day paraders. 
“All hell broke loose,” Chauncey said. “I mean it was 
a nightmare. I was a young assistant dean then, and it 
was awful.” So awful, actually, “that the mayor of New 
Haven and the president of Yale, who were very good 
friends, wouldn’t speak to each other for three or four 
months.”


But the two administrators eventually collaborated: 
on March 31st, New Haven mayor Richard C. Lee 
and Yale president A. Whitney Griswold announced 
the formation of the Commission to Study Yale-New 
Haven Community Relations, made up of  a retired 
Connecticut chief justice, a former Yale athletic 
director, and a New Haven police commissioner.


In September 1959, the commission published a 
report on town-gown relations. The document devoted 
an entire section to “Traffic,” recommending “routing 
vehicular traffic underground” on Elm for two blocks 
from York to College (from what is today the Patagonia 
store to Hopper College). This newly freed space would 
possibly “be integrated in the campus” so that “New 
Haven and her citizens as well as Yale would benefit.” 
Desperate to resolve the Elm Street question, Lee 
offered to help fund studies for the project: “Dear 
Whit, I am sure we can find the $2,100 to do our share 
of the engineering job on the Elm Street tunnel,” Lee 
wrote in a letter to Yale president A. Whitney Griswold 
on October 30, 1959. Lee was an urban renewal poster 
child, famous for razing ‘blighted’ areas across New 
Haven to make way for new highways. So it comes as 
no surprise that he was keen to help Griswold with a 
monolithic auto infrastructure project along Elm, one 
that would conveniently result in new space for Yale’s 
elite.


Despite the collaborative effort, the tunneling project 
was never completed. The Elm Street Underpass 
report, conducted by a New York-based engineering 
firm, estimated that the tunneling would cost over $3 
million: too high for the University. The infrastructure 
under Elm, such as electrical connections and water 
lines, also prohibited a full excavation of the street. 
Yale administrators continued to explore the idea 
throughout the 1960s. Even though Morse and Stiles 
took the place of the high schools, Yale liked the 
concept of a unified campus. Correspondence as late 
as 1966 suggests the university continued to entertain 
the idea of a tunnel beneath Elm Street. But nothing 
ever materialized. 


“Elm Street today is kind of a sad street in my way of 
thinking,” Chauncey said. Taking his napkin from his 
lap, he began wistfully drawing what he dreamed Elm 
could look like now, thinking out loud along the way. 
Design by Meher Hans


--- Page 18 ---

 18
Chauncey illustrated how he would remove a lane of 
traffic and add dozens of pin oak trees flanking the 
street. (He was very intent on the pin oaks, insisting, 
“If you prune them high, fifteen feet, they create a 
canopy.”)


Much of Chauncey’s explanation was admittedly 
very difficult to follow—the details of his vision 
were hard to decipher from his napkin drawing—
but his sentiment was crystal clear. City streets 
create fractures in what could be a more complete 
campus, which could serve as an amenity not only 
to Yalies but to New Haven residents, too. Chauncey 
recounted a story of a New Haven resident he knew 
who worked on Park Street and would walk home 
through the colleges, before the gates were locked to 
the public, because she felt safer that way.


“Nothing broke my heart more than when 
we decided we had to lock all the college gates,” 
Chauncey said. “We don’t do anything, in an urban 
sense, to welcome the citizens of New Havens onto 
the Yale campus.” 


For years, Chauncey has worked to repair town-
gown relations. In 1972, he started Yale’s Community 
Relations Office, a group that has worked on 
charitable projects like New Haven Promise, New 
Haven Reads, and Squash Haven. If I knew about 
all the generous contributions Yale makes to New 
Haven, I’d be “astounded,” he told me. “It isn’t just 
the $11 million, it’s a whole lot of other stuff.”


But in Chauncey’s eyes, Yale’s commitment to New 
Haven has deteriorated significantly. I asked him if 
the current administration was making any effort, 
but he cut me off before I could finish my question: 
“Absolutely not. I am appalled. And I’ve told him, so 
I don’t mind saying it, but I am appalled at how little 
Peter Salovey is interested in the relationship other 
than nice words.”


Chauncey’s 
rhetoric 
about 
pedestrianization 
conveys a belief that walkable areas will benefit 
everyone. But his work on the 1960s Elm Street 
tunneling project also shows an intention to isolate 
the campus. “After that snowball riot we all talked 
about tunneling underneath and closing that street 
off,” he said. These seemingly opposite impulses left 
me confused, wondering whether Chauncey’s ideas 
about walkable spaces would only end up solidifying 
the town-gown divide.


My interviews with Chauncey and Hausladen, 
roughly a week apart, felt like a staged debate on 
Yale’s relationship with New Haven. If they were 
in the same room, the discourse would be, let’s say, 
passionate.  


Chauncey thinks a more pedestrianized campus 
would help make Yale more “appealing and 
welcoming… Even for the citizens of New Haven, 
just walking home. It becomes a more pleasant trip.”


Hausladen passionately refuted this notion, 
explaining that foot traffic and auto traffic are 
inherently at odds. “Yalies want pedestrianism 
and the region of New Haven is a vehicular-based 
region,” he argued. The prioritization of pedestrians 
would constrict New Haven’s auto thoroughfares 
and prevent commuters from efficiently getting to 
work, in order to “take all the space back just for 
Yalies’ use.”


After such intense controversy over outlandish 
tunneling projects, closing arterial streets, and the 
relative values of pedestrians and drivers in the 
context of the university and the city, the four small 
signs bookending a block of Wall Street may seem 
inconsequential. Closing Wall St. to cars won’t 
significantly impact traffic patterns, and it doesn’t 
formally exclude New Haveners from walking in 
that space. But a pedestrian space is not necessarily 
a neutral space. The Elm Street plan of old and 
today’s Wall Street project both reflect an effort to 
isolate Yale from New Haven, a city that is so often 
portrayed by Yalies as rundown, depressed, or dreary.


There’s a future in which I return to Yale to find 
wrought-iron gates guarding the entrance to Wall 
Street that beep upon the swipe of an ID. It’s really 
not too hard to imagine—just think of Old Campus, 
which had its gates locked in 1976. But isolation does 
not always come in the form of physical barriers. 
Even if Wall is never formally closed off, its purchase 
and pedestrianization serve as a reminder of Yale’s 
tendency to co-opt public urban space in the name 
of campus continuity.  Maybe on Wall we are already 
witnessing a barrier under construction. 
—Kapp Singer is a sophomore in 
Hopper College.



**Title: Forgetting Everything**
**Author: EILEEN HUANG**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
O
n the first day of my language program, our 
teachers warn us not to be surprised if anyone 
Chinese tells us, “You’ve gotten fatter.” This is not 
considered rude in China, she explains, merely a 
habitual way of greeting a friend or acquaintance.
No culture shock here. At family banquets in 
China, which my sister and I attended every few 
years, I grew used to the aunties, whose faces I often 
can’t recall, telling me how big, how fat I’ve become. 
They would make these remarks amiably, often 
smiling, counterintuitively filling my plate with 
more needle-boned fish, pinching the parts of my 
stomach that have changed. Any foreigner should 
know Chinese people are not like Americans; they 
are eager to point out anything different.

In Harbin, a classmate and I visit a local wholesale 
market to hunt for cheap clothing. We’re both Asian 
American. At a small shop selling sundresses, the 
vendor manning the stand notices our accents, the 
way we can’t seem to curl our tongues to pronounce 
r words.
She says, “You are not from here.”
We think only of bargaining. We explain that 
we’re foreigners, Americans actually. We traveled so 
far to look for affordable clothing. Can you give us 
some better prices? A little cheaper, maybe?
The vendor is not interested in business. 
“Americans? Why do you look like that?” She steps 
closer, studying our non-American faces. Another 
vendor joins her. They pinch our clothing, look 
down our shirts, move their faces closer to our 
skin, still giggling at each other, Why do they look
like that?
“We’re Americans,” we repeat as they flock us, 
though I’m unsure whom we are addressing. 
We reach to part the bead curtain hanging over 
the store’s exit. When we duck out, they point 
after us: Are you sure they’re not Chinese? Other 
vendowrs come out to look at us, looking after our 
running silhouettes.

Mandarin was my mother tongue. I grew up 
speaking it until I didn’t. It feels odd to relearn a 
language that I once knew so seamlessly, to say a 
word and realize I can no longer pronounce it.
In my language program, a portion of the class is 
devoted to reviewing and pronouncing new 
vocabulary words. Our teacher holds up words 
on a flashcard, we read them back as accurately 
as possible.
I sense there are different standards for different 
students. The teachers are more forgiving toward 
mistakes made by non-Asian students. In a class with 
mostly white students, I pronounce a word slightly 
incorrectly. The teacher singles me out.
“Wrong,” she says, “say it again.”
I say it.
“Repeat it,” she says, “again.”
I’ve been asked by multiple strangers if I plan on 
returning to guonei, or “the Mainland,” after college. 
I explain to them that I was born in the United States. 
I’m an American. They question me further. How, 
then, do I look Chinese? Some strangers in China 
don’t bother me with more questions. Instead, 
they get upset, hurl insults, and insist that I am not 
American, just delusional, arrogant, and Chinese.
In Mandarin, there’s a phrase       ,   (wangben), 
that means “forgetting everything.” It’s used to 
signify the worst kind of forgetting, a kind similar to 
amnesia, a kind hard to forgive—one that makes it 
hard to recall what you’ve lost.


I hear this for the first time on a taxi ride to the 
Beijing airport. A particularly curious driver keeps 
asking me which Chinese CEOs I admire, so I tell 
him I don’t know many, I’m an American.
Laughing, he says, “Then you have really wangben,” 
and I feel guilty. I feel this guilt when I’m overheard 
speaking English on the bus; when not remembering 
the faces of my relatives; when traveling to another 
country to relearn my mother tongue; when looking 
at my language teacher as I repeat a word I used to 
know, as she reiterates, Again, remember, again.

We Americans, Asian-Americans, and other 
hyphenated Americans are said to have the advantage 
of having one foot in each nation. The downside to 
this is that we flounder, struggle to find our balance. 
We are never rooted to one cohesive identity. 
I don’t find comfort in a purely American identity. 
America is the white parent asking if I eat dog at 
home. America is chink, is love me long time. America 
is the elementary school teacher telling me to speak 
normal. Not in Chinese. America is my parents calling 
my white friends “American,” my Chinese American 
friends “Chinese.” America is the child staring at 
me from the front of the bus, pulling his eyes into 
slits, grinning.
In China, I can’t deny that I feel less foreign and 
interesting and more alien, the result of a ghastly 
intercultural experiment. Even so, I don’t find 
much comfort in the other country that claims my 
nationality, that implicitly taught me through years 
of racism—internalized, systemic, and overt—that 
speaking Chinese is useless, so I should just forget it. 

Most Chinese Americans who have been to China 
believe that ABCs—Chinese slang for “American-
born Chinese” receive different treatment than 
foreigners who look visibly foreign. I am grateful for 
the ability to slip through crowds unnoticed, to ride 
the subway without strangers snapping furtive photos 
of me. Nonetheless, when Chinese people breach the 
topic of nationality and identity, that’s when ABCs are 
paid the most attention.
“If you’re American, then how do you look 
Chinese?” During this program, the origin of this 
question becomes clear. For Chinese nationals, 
who have the idea that a nation must be “ethnically 
harmonious” for decades, nationality is inextricably 
tied to race. Thus, for them and for many others, 
American identity is inextricably tied to whiteness.
Sometimes this makes me sad—this idea that I have 
no nationality to claim without constantly defending 
it. I think about how I’ll never feel fully comfortable 
standing for the Pledge of Allegiance; how I am 
simultaneously 
geographically, 
culturally, 
and 
politically removed from the country my parents 
left twenty years ago. I don’t find comfort in this 
idea that I’m thrashing between nations, merely 
treading seawater. 
At the same time, I reflect on how when governments 
attempt to tie race to nationality, it’s usually done to 
systematically oppress and terrorize those who fall in 
the margins—Muslims who are not Han Chinese, 
bodies that are not white. Do I need to participate in 
this? Do I need to identify with one nationality over 
the other, or can I exist and thrive in the margins?

White or white-passing Americans in China have 
the privilege of performing foreignness, or what can be 
perceived as a genuine American identity. We ABCs 
can only mimic it. Chinese people are fascinated 
by white Americans speaking Chinese, even with 
an accent it’s exotic. When I speak Chinese with an 
American accent—cultural treason.
One day during my program, a few American 
students and I are treated to lunch by a Chinese 
study abroad company. To the white students, the 
company’s employees are magnanimous. They pile 
dumplings on the students’ plates—Which kinds do 
you like? Eat more!—and are amused by their ability 
to say haochi—“it tastes good.” They listen to their 
experiences, ask engaging questions: How did you 
start learning Chinese? It’s very good!
I keep waiting for them to ask me questions, for the 
dumplings to be placed on my plate, for the 
compliments regarding my Chinese ability. Soon, 
the lazy Susan spins, staggeringly, toward me, but no 
one’s chopsticks rush to transfer chive dumplings to 
my plate. I wait until I realize I have to help myself.
– Eileen Huang is a sophomore in 
Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: The Leftovers**
**Author: Ellie Garland**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Eating at Yale was once an unsavory affair. 
Young men subsisted on salt beef, dry cod, 
and the occasional apple ‘pye’: a doughy 
dessert prepared with sugar, hog’s lard, and a peck 
of apples. Wars brought shortages, and at times, the 
students found the food so unbearable that they threw 
the boiled beef on the floor and the rancid butter out 
the windows. In the “Bread and Butter Rebellion” of 
1828, a group of them went on strike, unsuccessfully, 
against the central dining hall, Commons, for its 
unsatisfactory offerings. 

In the fifty-four years since anthropologist Loomis 
Havemeyer published Eating at Yale: 1701–1965, almost 
everything about the dining experience has changed. 
Ceramic plateware, spa water, and self-service replaced 
the Yale china, hard cider, and butlers. Menus evolved 
to serve more global food. And yet, the philosophy 
behind eating at Yale has remained constant: it’s not 
really about the food. Eating at Yale is about sitting, 
thinking, and talking. 

But as students engage in conversation over Char 
Sui Ramen and Brownie Walnut Pudding, most do not 
realize that we live in a country where food waste is the 
largest and least recycled portion of the waste stream 
and in a city where 22 percent of residents lack steady 
access to healthy and affordable food.

Yale University oversees twenty-three residential 
and retail dining operations and serves an average of 
fourteen thousand meals each day. The scale of this 
operation means that the way the University considers 
larger issues of food waste and food insecurity can have 
a significant impact.       

What happens before we eat is a familiar story. Yale 
Dining strives to source food locally and limit food 
waste during production. Dining staff turn unattractive 
tomato “seconds” into salsa and misshapen pumpkins 
into ravioli. They employ a “nose-to-tail” philosophy; 
if broccoli florets are the vegetable du jour, the stems 
are used in soups, and the leaves are featured in salad 
bars. To improve campus “food literacy,” Yale sponsors 
local farm tours to teach students about its sustainable 
procurement practices. Come autumn, ninety mostly 
flannel-clad undergraduates flock to nearby farms to 
ride tractors through pumpkin patches and pick apples 
from trees in a vision of pastoral bliss.     

But the largely untold story of where our food goes 
after we eat can help elucidate Yale’s role in the New 
Haven food ecosystem. Where are the Yale-sponsored 
tours of the places Yale sends its food once students are 
done eating?           

What happens to the food Yale doesn’t eat?
Illustration by Zihao Lin


It’s lunchtime in your favorite residential college 
dining hall, and you’re clearing your dishes and waving 
goodbye to your friends. You scrape what remains of 
your red lentil pasta and garbanzo bean salad into the 
food waste bin. You speed to your seminar, pull up your 
readings, and spend the next hour trying to come up 
with a vaguely intelligent thought to share in class. You 
have long since forgotten your lunch.  

As you carry on with your day, your red lentil pasta 
and garbanzo bean salad sit in a bin with the other half-
eaten and uneaten foods. Once or twice daily, a Yale 
truck collects the food scraps from your meal and the 
other 13,999 served that day. Your lunch travels thirty-
three miles on I-91 North to Southington, Connecticut. 
The truck turns onto Depaolo Drive and pulls up 
to a large white structure on an expanse of black tar, 
nestled between an evergreen forest and rust-colored 
piles of mulch and topsoil. Men in bright yellow 
hoodies wander the grounds to monitor the cylindrical 
tanks and the magic happening inside them. Atop the 
largest of six tanks, an American flag waves in the wind.

Quantum Biopower is Connecticut’s first food waste-
to-energy facility and the only anaerobic digester on the 
East Coast. In 2011, Connecticut issued a food diversion 
mandate that requires large commercial businesses 
that produce 104 tons or more of food waste per year 
to send their food scraps to a state-licensed recycling 
operation, so long as there is such an operation within 
twenty miles. Though colleges and universities are 
exempt from the 2011 mandate, Yale, striving to be a 
leader on the sustainability front, opted to comply. 

In late 2016, the University became one of Quantum 
Biopower’s first customers.

The Yale truck parks in Quantum’s reception bay and 
empties the day’s load into a murky brown pool that the 
company’s vice president Brian Paganini calls a “really 
gross milkshake.” The stench of rotting food pervades 
the air as Yale’s food scraps mix with waste from 
nearby supermarkets, hotels, hospitals, and seven other 
colleges and universities. A violent churning separates 
inorganic materials from the organic ones before 
the milkshake is fed to the digester: a titanic oxygen-
deprived steel tank that holds one million gallons of 
liquefied waste at a low-pH, high-temperature setting. 
Microscopic bacteria in the digester consume the food 
waste with constant oversight from the Quantum team. 
“You can’t give the bacteria the whole Thanksgiving 
meal one day, or it won’t eat the next,” said Director of 
Operations John Ferguson. He described the anaerobic 
digester as an infant in its early days—the bacteria’s first 
‘meal’ was milk from a nearby dairy supplier—that has 
since blossomed into a hungry teenager that will eat 
basically anything.

As the bacteria consume the liquefied waste, they 
expel methane. “It’s a biological process,” said Paganini. 
“No different than a cow’s stomach or the human 
body.” Quantum’s state-of-the-art tanks harness the 
methane to create electricity. Southington buys back 
some of the electricity at a discounted rate to power its 
wastewater plants, municipal buildings, police station, 
and fire station. 

So far in 2019, Yale trucks have delivered over 
850 tons of food waste to the Quantum facility. The 
Quantum operation recycles forty-thousand tons of 
food waste each year, generating 420 thousand cubic 
feet of contained methane and enough electricity to 
theoretically power 775 homes with clean energy each. 
     One of the main advantages of anaerobic digestion 
is that it keeps the methane contained, harnessing 
the emissions as fuel for energy creation. Traditional 
composting, which turns organic waste into soil and 
fertilizer, allows some methane to escape into the 
atmosphere, contributing to global warming. While 
Yale’s partnership with Quantum Biopower diverts 
waste from landfills and incinerators, the University’s 
food disposal system isn’t perfect. For one, food waste 
bins are only available to students in dining halls, 
during dining hall hours. This system fails to capture 
food waste generated from Yale’s robust snacking and 
buttery culture. Secondly, diners often put into waste 
bins things that cannot be processed at the facility. 
According to Ferguson, Quantum recently contacted 
Yale about silverware, trays, tools, and even brooms 
mixed in with the food scraps. The machinery can 
scrape out this contamination, but only at a volume of 
5 to 10 percent of incoming material.      

On college campuses, every eater plays a role in 
optimizing sustainable operations. To estimate how 
much food to purchase, Yale Dining uses data-driven 
meal forecasting based on two years of historical data. 
If all students adhered to Yale Dining’s “take what 
you eat, and eat what you take” philosophy, a message 
printed rather inconspicuously on dining hall fliers, 
the data would reflect small behavioral changes and 
eventually lead to purchasing reductions.

Natalie Warren, who graduated from Yale in 2017, 
tackled the issue of university food waste in her 
cognitive science thesis. She sees food waste as a 
cooperative dilemma since students must expend some 
costly effort (taking the appropriate amount of food) 
to promote a public good (reducing food waste). For 
her thesis, she implemented a cooperation-inspired 
marketing campaign in half of the college dining halls, 
fastening endearing posters to napkin dispensers and 
bulletin boards with slogans like “Second Time’s A 
Charm: Take only what you eat and go back for seconds 
if you’re still hungry. #cleanplateclub.” The six dining 
halls with the marketing intervention saw a statistically 
significant reduction in dinnertime food waste at an 
average of .01 pounds per person per day, or about 
sixteen pounds per day. Later iterations of Warren’s 
signs still adorn dining halls today, reminding students 
to consume with intention. 

Edmund Chute, a senior at Yale, and Chris Chute, 
who graduated two years ago, are taking a technological 
approach to campus food waste generated outside of the 
dining hall. This fall, the brothers launched Vulture, 
an app designed to provide students with fast, accurate 
information about every source of free food on campus. 
Students post a picture, description, and the location 
of any surplus food. Other users receive a notification 
with directions and updates should the Insomnia 
cookies or Popeyes biscuits run out before they arrive. 
“We think the best way to reduce food waste is to create 
a platform for notifying people, telling them when food 
is available, and making it fun to go get it,” said Chris 
Chute. The app has launched at Yale and Harvard, and 
the Chute brothers hope to expand to other campuses 
across the country.

Still, the scale of the problem is enormous. In the 
United States today, more than thirty-six million tons 
of food are sent to methane-releasing landfills and 
ash- and soot-producing incinerators. It would take 
an additional 910 facilities like Quantum Biopower to 
divert all this waste and turn it into energy. Quantum 
is already running at 95 percent capacity, so the team 
sees tremendous opportunity for growth in the state of 
Connecticut and across America. “Anaerobic digestion 
is at the nexus between recycling and energy. In the 
United States, this whole industry is very much in 
its infancy,” said Paganini. “Recovering food waste is 
the last portion of the waste stream that really needs 
attention. It’s the final frontier of recycling.” 

But there are still many barriers. Not all states have 
mandates like Connecticut’s, and even Connecticut’s 
mandate is poorly enforced. Developing, permitting, 
and financing anaerobic digestion facilities is an 
expensive endeavor that requires community support, 
and many people have a not-in-my-backyard attitude 
toward waste, Ferguson said. Without these facilities, 
the onus falls entirely on institutions and individuals 
to reduce waste.

Not all food Yale Dining cooks is digested by its 
student body and Quantum bacteria. As Yale’s food 
scraps make the daily trek to the anaerobic digester, 
Yale’s untouched leftovers travel a shorter distance: 
to the soup kitchens, daycare centers, elderly housing 
apartments, and faith communities in New Haven that 
feed some of the University’s food-insecure neighbors.      

If the algorithms for predicting food volume were 
perfect, Yale Dining wouldn’t have any leftovers 
to donate, but a sprawling, buffet-style food service 
operation makes excess inevitable. On Fridays and 
Saturdays, Yale student volunteers pick up some of 
these leftovers from the residential college dining halls. 
They drive around twenty pans of food to the United 
Parish House at the corner of Temple and Wall Street, 
home to the Downtown Evening Soup Kitchen, or 
DESK. Since 1987, DESK has provided weekday meals 
to New Haven residents experiencing homelessness 
or poverty. In 2005, students working with the Yale 
Hunger and Homelessness Action Project extended 
DESK service to weekends by launching the Yale 




**Community Kitchen, or YCK: a food-rescue program where student volunteers serve and staff dinner service with food donated by Yale Dining.**
**Author: Ellie Garland**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2019
 25
Community Kitchen, or YCK: a food-rescue program 
where student volunteers serve and staff dinner service 
with food donated by Yale Dining. 
On weekend nights, YCK volunteers in hairnets 
and chalky white gloves serve chicken thighs, grilled 
carrots, and Bolognese pasta on plastic trays. At round 
tables in folding chairs, about fifty men, women, and 
children eat dinners that closely resemble what the 
Yale student volunteers ate in the dining halls that 
week. YCK Project Heads Willemijn van Deursen and 
Maurice Ware are grateful for the friendships they’ve 
built at the United Parish House over the years, though 
they hope for a day when they no longer see the same 
people meal after meal. “Our goal as an organization 
is not to exist because then there wouldn’t be a need,” 
said van Deursen.


Today, some emergency food services in New Haven 
are made possible by Yale Dining’s inefficiencies. It’s a 
fragile system: meeting the urgent needs of one group 
currently depends on another group having too much. 
Yale Dining is also a steady donor to Haven’s Harvest, 
a one-year-old food recovery nonprofit that redistributes 
food through a deep and broad community network. 
“Runners” drive trays from restaurants, supermarkets, 
and universities to churches, housing complexes, and 
community agencies. These hyper-local exchanges 
typically take no longer than fifteen minutes.
“The perimeter of Yale’s campus is food insecure,” 
said Lori Martin, the founder and executive director 
of Haven’s Harvest. “We don’t need to move food far to 
make a difference, and nobody within an arm’s length 
of this campus should go without food.” 
On one run in November, Caleb MartinMooney, 
Haven’s Harvest’s operations director and Martin’s 
son, parked his gray station wagon on York Street. 
He descended the stone steps to Branford College’s 
basement kitchen and grabbed three pans of food from 
a walk-in refrigerator. He loaded orzo, herbed chicken, 
and eggplant parmesan into his Bernie-sticker-
speckled trunk. With NPR on low in the background, 
MartinMooney drove 2.1 miles to the Fair Haven 
Elderly Apartments where he dropped off the food in 
a common area with large windows and potted plants. 
He retrieved a dozen pans from last week’s delivery and 
drove home. This run is one of about twenty of Haven’s 
Harvest food transfers that happen each day, totaling 
nearly a million pounds of redistributed food annually.


It was initially difficult for Martin to find a home for 
her carloads of organic and commercially grown food. 
Four of the pillars of emergency food service in New 
Haven—DESK, Columbus House, Loaves and Fishes, 
and the Community Soup Kitchen—rely mostly on 
food banks and had little interest in the variety and 
unpredictability of Haven’s Harvest’s supply. But Martin 
knew that more residents than those who regularly 
attend soup kitchens experience food insecurity. 
“Excess food is not just for those in need, an ‘us’ and 
‘them,” said Martin. She described one encounter with 
a woman from Connecticut’s shoreline who called 
with six pans of food leftover from a town hall. Martin 
called several faith communities near the donor site 
and found a place that could use the food. When she 
told the donor where the food was going, the donor  was 
surprised it wasn’t headed for New Haven. “There are 
people who are hungry everywhere,” Martin reflected. 
“What has been surprising is food insecurity is so silent. 
Sometimes we don’t hear about it until that burden has 
been lifted.”


Martin has since developed a community-centered 
approach to food recovery. Through word of mouth, 
people know to call her when spare food arises 
unexpectedly, whether that’s dozens of pizza boxes 
from a conference or six-hundred burritos from a 
hackathon. 
Sometimes businesses are shocked by the amount 
of excess food coming from their own kitchens. This 
realization may prompt institutional efforts to reduce 
food waste, resulting in fewer food donations. Martin 
urges food providers to embrace, rather than resent, 
the leftovers they do produce. “Excess food is not a 
shameful thing,” she said. “But the ‘shamefulness’ 
makes it so we can’t talk truthfully about leftover food. 
If employees can’t tell the truth, then the food will 
get thrown away when we could have done something 
better with it.”     
“EXCESS FOOD IS NOT A 
SHAMEFUL THING. BUT 
THE ‘SHAMEFULNESS’ 
MAKES IT SO WE CAN’T 
TALK TRUTHFULLY ABOUT 
LEFTOVER FOOD.”


Despite the potential for more food aid to come 
from newly-embraced leftovers, Martin understands 
that food redistribution will only ever be a temporary 
solution to a deeper problem. Austin Bryniarski, a 
School of Forestry & Environmental Studies graduate, 
focuses on the politics of food waste. He commends 
Martin’s willingness to talk about power, race, class 
and gender when it comes to food redistribution, but 
he wishes that the emergency food service industry as a 
whole would “flex its political muscles” more. 
In Bryniarski’s eyes, food recovery programs, banks, 
and kitchens address an immediate lack of food while 
often forgetting that hunger is just one way that poverty 
manifests. “The most sustainable, structural way to 
address food insecurity is to address the poverty that 
makes food so hard to come by,” said Bryniarski. 
“Otherwise, you miss the forest for the trees.”


Bryniarski also worries some of these programs treat 
food-insecure populations as mere mouths to consume 
unwanted excess. “The people on the receiving end of 
this food basically become a safety valve for a system in 
which people produce too much,” said Bryniarski. 
Critiquing a system of emergency food providers 
has complex implications, especially when so many 
residents currently depend on them for their meals. 
But Bryniarski is right that alleviating food insecurity 
in New Haven would require more of Yale than surplus 
food donations.


If the University supported upstream political 
change, like affordable housing, job creation, and 
fair wage initiatives, fewer people would depend on 
emergency food providers. Mayor-Elect Justin Elicker, 
for instance, urges the University to rethink its tax 
contribution to the city. In his Blue New Deal, he 
pressures Yale to give $50 million annually, quadruple 
its current voluntary contribution. Elicker believes 
this money would dramatically increase New Haven’s 
ability to function as a city. Moving from a temporary 
solution to a permanent one takes time, and there are 
limits to what any institution, even one as powerful as 
Yale, can do to effect change. To start, Yale Dining could 
supplement its farm tours with initiatives to advance 
a campus-wide understanding of food insecurity and 
food waste as pieces of a larger structural puzzle. 
While college students today are often told to attend 
to the present moment, it is worth thinking about the 
future: the immediate future in which our garbanzo 
bean vestiges power the Southington fire station and 
leftover orzo from college kitchens finds a second home 
at DESK, but also the future that people like Bryniarski 
are working towards, in which food insecurity doesn’t 
exist and food waste is not wasted. The next time you’re 
eating Quinoa-Stuffed Peppers in your residential 
college, engage in the hallowed tradition of dining 
hall discourse, and ask your neighbor: how can we get 
there? 
     
 
– Ellie Garland is a senior in 
Pierson College.


**Unclear Cutting**
**Author: Max Graham**
**Page number(s): 27**

 27
Unclear 
   Cutting
The Yale Investments Office owns vast timberlands in 
northern New England. Some question whether the land has 
been managed sustainably.

Design by 
Chase Westover



**Title: The New Journal Cover**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 28
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
C O V E R
T
he autumn leaves of New Hampshire’s Coos 
County, the Great North Woods, beyond the 
White Mountains, obscure my view. I am 
searching for what Rick Samson, seated next to me in a 
camouflage button-down, is trying to show me, but I can’t 
see past the burnt yellows, oranges, and caramel browns. 
Samson and I are in his black pickup, bumping along a 
gravel road a few miles into a dense woodland. The vast 
majority—81 percent—of New Hampshire land is forest. 
Every so often Samson slows his truck to say, “See how 
small this stuff is? There was nothing here when they cut 
it,” or, “If you look down through there, there is nothing; 
there is nothing left here at all.” But everywhere I look, 
except for a few unremarkable tracts where the forest has 
been cleared, I see trees—poplars, beeches, maples—and 
lots of them.

I am not qualified to assess whether a logging operation 
is sustainable or not. But neither, really, is Samson. Even 
though he has spent more than seventy years hunting 
and snowmobiling in the New Hampshire woods, he is 
a county commissioner with no technical background in 
forestry. Still, Samson isn’t shy about sharing his opinion. 
The tree trunks are skinnier than they should be, he says, 
and they have been hacked down in recent years where 
they should have been thriving. 

Samson feels so strongly about the mismanagement of 
the land here, in Millsfield, New Hampshire, that he has 
agreed to take me on a tour of the property without its 
owner’s permission. As a public official, Samson is not too 
worried about getting in trouble. He is confident that he 
could proffer a convincing excuse were someone to catch 
us. I am not worried, either, because I feel that I have a 
stake in the land. I am a Yale student, and Yale, though 
reluctant to admit it, owns this forest. 

To be precise, the Yale Investments Office owns it. 
Unlike Yale’s research forests, which the School of 
Forestry own and operate, this timberland is part of the 
university’s $30.3 billion endowment. Its purpose, plain 
and simple, is profit. 

Nothing about the physical property suggests that 
the trees are Yale’s. A sign at the entrance declares that 
the land belongs to “Bayroot LLC.” A Google search of 
“Bayroot LLC” reveals that the company has no website. 
Indeed, it is difficult to ascertain exactly what Bayroot is. 
According to a handful of news articles, Bayroot is not an 
ordinary LLC, but a “subsidiary” or a “shell company.” 
More informative is a line in Yale’s federal tax documents, 
which says the university owns 98.8 percent of Bayroot, 
a share valued at $58.6 million, as of 2018. Essentially, 
Bayroot is a name on paper—a name that conveniently 
conceals the Yale Investments Office’s efforts to gobble up 
land in rural New Hampshire and Maine. 

To make matters more complicated, Yale (or Bayroot) 
doesn’t actually manage the land it owns; a company 
called Wagner Forest Management does. Wagner 
oversees logging operations and land management plans 
on 2.7-million acres of forest across New England and 
eastern Canada. The primary goal of timber investment 
management organizations like Wagner is to maximize 
return for their investors. Between 1993 and 2017, 
investments in U.S. timber returned an average of a little 
over 8 percent, meaning that timber is a stable long-term 
investment. In his book Pioneering Portfolio Management, 
David Swensen, Yale’s chief investment officer, explains 
that timberland “offers strong return potential, steady cash 
flow, inflation protection, and portfolio diversification.” In 
short, it is a safe and steady institutional investment—one 
that won’t necessarily make a fortune in the short term, but 
will generate good returns over the course of generations. 
(Swensen declined to comment for this story.)

Most of the trees in Coos County used to be owned 
by paper companies, but within the last three decades, 
timber supply has shifted to a global market as cheap 
imports have outmatched domestic products. The local 
forest-products industry has been hit hard. Coos’ mills 
have shuttered, and outside private investors like Yale 
have bought up holdings, hoping to capitalize on timber’s 
low risk and steady returns.

Northern New Hampshire has always relied heavily—
economically and culturally—on forests. Timber “is 
our economy. It’s our sense of place and our sense 
of community. Our heritage really is built into the 
landscape,” said Liz Wyman, a Yale School of Forestry 
graduate who now lives in Lancaster, the county seat. 
Lifelong Coos County resident and local journalist John 
Harrigan, who used to manage 160 acres of timberland 
around his home, echoed Wyman. “I’ve been involved in 
wood, one way or another, all my life. It’s just part of me,” 
said Harrigan, whose dining hall ceiling is supported by 
gargantuan red maple logs, cut in the mid-19th century.

As I ride along with Samson through the woods, he 
recalls that, in 2017, Harrigan and another one of his 
friends, Wayne Montgomery, a former logger, were fined 
$124 for escorting a few Yale School of Forestry students 
along the same private road that we are now driving down. 
They were checking on the forest, much as Samson and 
I are. (Neither Samson nor the students were charged 
because they were passengers, and the fine was for 


--- Page 29 ---

NOVEMBER 2019
 29
operating motorized vehicles without permission.) 
Later, when I visited Harrigan at his home, he laughed 
about the fine. Harrigan, whose family has owned two 
Coos County newspapers for decades, has been dubbed 
“The King of the North Country” because he is quite 
possibly more devoted to the woods of northern New 
Hampshire than anyone else. While Harrigan has not 
spent much time analyzing Wagner’s forestry practices, 
he called the company’s management of the Millsfield 
forest  “a cut-and-get-out,” a logging job “with little regard 
for what could come.” He said that a lot of people can’t 
tell the difference between a “quick cut for profit” and a 
genuinely sustainable harvest. “When they look at a forest, 
they just see trees.” 

Dottie Kurtz sees Wagner’s trees just about everyday. 
Kurtz is a town administrator in Errol, another one-main-
intersection Coos County hamlet, which borders Yale’s 
land. I met her at the Errol town hall, a three-story white 
wood home. As Kurtz and I walked around the town 
hall’s main foyer, lined with photos of lumberjacks and 
felled logs, I asked her about allegations against Wagner’s 
timber practices. To my surprise, she gave me a perplexed 
look and said, “I have never heard anyone say anything 
negative—ever.”

Wagner manages the land adjacent to Kurtz’s backyard. 
She often rides her snowmobile along the network of 
trails that crisscrosses Wagner-managed forest. “They 
take good care of the land,” Kurtz said. “They manage 
it well. They’re good neighbors.” Kurtz knew about the 
Yale-Bayroot connection, although she wasn’t bothered by 
it and said most people in Errol probably were not aware 
of it. When I pressed her again about the possibility that 
Wagner has not managed Yale’s land to a high ethical 
standard, she was nearly lost for words. “I can’t—I’m 
dumbfounded.” 

I, too, was dumbfounded. After all the suspicious things 
I had heard about Wagner, here was one of Wagner’s 
neighbors telling me the company was taking good care of 
the land. Then again, I knew that most people, including 
me, could not tell the difference between good and bad 
timber management. In Yale Forestry Professor Chad 
Oliver’s lingo: “A lot of amateurs don’t know a good forest 
practice when they see it.” Besides, even the few people 
with enough expertise to assess a timber harvest might 
have different understandings of what “good” and “bad” 
mean in the world of forestry. 

After speaking with Kurtz, I doubted more than ever 
that Wagner was an evil corporation laying waste to the 
county’s forests. But I also figured that, as friendly and 
forthright as Kurtz was, she might not be seeing the whole 
picture. And I feared that I wasn’t either.

The environmental consequences of unsustainable 
logging are fairly straightforward: habitat loss (for animals 
like lynx, in New England), decline in biodiversity, soil 
and watershed damage. But maybe the most urgent danger 
is climate change: forests store a tremendous amount of 
carbon. According to the United States Department of 
Agriculture, forests offset 13 percent of the United States’ 
carbon emissions. 

NEFF, a forest conservation nonprofit, has published 
guidelines for timber practices that would sequester 1.9 
gigatons of carbon in New England forests in the next 
twenty years—the equivalent of taking every vehicle in 
New England off the road, according to NEFF’s executive 
director Bob Perschel. “Yale could be a part of that 
challenge,” Perschel said.

Since neither Perschel nor the rest of us know exactly 
how Wagner manages Yale’s land, it is impossible to say 
specifically what the company could do differently. But 
NEFF’s recommended logging practices would generate 
2 to 4 percent in annual returns, falling well short of the 
Yale endowment’s 5.7 percent average annual return on 
natural resources over the last ten years.

In 2009, Yale said that its timber interests comprised 
roughly three-million acres. The University has held 
vast holdings in New England forestland at least since 
the early 2000s. In December 2003, Bayroot bought 129 
thousand acres of land in New Hampshire and more than 
five hundred thousand acres in Maine. At the time, no 
one was aware that Bayroot was connected to Yale. “All 
we knew about was Bayroot, Bayroot, Bayroot,” Samson 
reflected. “We thought it was just another company.” (Yale 
also owns 91.3 percent of Typhoon LLC, which, according 
to a 2011 Bangor Daily News article, holds 471,000 
thousand of acres of land in Maine. Typhoon LLC’s land, 
like Bayroot’s, is managed by Wagner.)

Much about Yale’s endowment is mysterious. Swensen 
has not revealed any specifics about Yale’s holdings—such 
as value, location, amount of returns, or partnerships 
with other companies. Swensen has railed against student 
activists and the Yale Daily News, which, he wrote in a 
March 2018 op-ed in the News, “frequently fails to meet 
fundamental journalistic standards” in reporting on the 
endowment. But when student activists and reporters, 


--- Page 30 ---

 30
and even members of directly affected communities, 
like Samson, a say-it-like-it-is Navy vet and registered 
Republican, have pressed the University to defend its 
investment practices, administrators have responded with 
condescension at worst and cryptic answers at best. The 
Investments Office has a policy not to speak with reporters 
on the record.

Yale cannot dispute that Wagner has not been perfect. 
The company was fined $35,000 in 2009 by the Maine 
Forest Service for clearcutting in an area of Bayroot land 
where such activity was not allowed. Clearcutting is the 
practice of removing every last merchandisable tree from 
an area of five or more acres. 

Glenn Booma, a biologist by training who has spent time 
in Bayroot’s woods since the nineteen-seventies, said he 
can immediately tell the difference when he crosses onto 
Bayroot land. Booma doesn’t have a formal background in 
forestry, but he doesn’t hold back from criticizing Wagner. 
“What I see when I walk on their property is embarrassing 
for them,” Booma says, and it “could likely be corrected 
with modest improvements in timber management.” 
He describes trees cut too close to wetlands and severe 
erosion near roads and waterways. Sediment from erosion 
after a harvest can harm trout populations; alongside a 
New Hampshire state fish biologist, Booma found that 
the area’s brook trout “literally decreased by hundreds 
of fish in a hundred meter stretch” following a heavy cut 
on Bayroot land. Booma observes that these practices, 
though inexcusable, might be expected of a for-profit 
timber company. But of an institution that claims to care 
so deeply about environmental stewardship and ethical 
leadership?

In a 2017 open letter to the Yale Investments Office, 
Wyman, the Yale Forestry graduate, implored the 
University “to stop destroying our landscape, communities, 
environment, and economy with poor management 
decisions on its thousands of acres of timberland in 
New Hampshire.” Wyman also is not an expert in 
forest management, but she did learn about sustainable 
forestry at the Yale School of Forestry. She said she has 
enough background to feel confident that Wagner is “not 
practicing real, genuine sustainable forestry.” And Yale, 
she says, is complicit.

“How would you sum up what Yale has done wrong, 
what Wagner has done wrong, what Bayroot has done 
wrong?” I ask Wayne Montgomery, Samson’s former 
logger friend, who leans all the way back in his recliner, 
his feet nearly level with his head. 

Montgomery, Samson, and I are at Montgomery’s 
house, a one-story, light blue home, typical of rural New 
England, with an American flag hanging out front and 
a pickup parked in the driveway. Montgomery lives in 
Groveton, New Hampshire, a small town that used to 
buzz with the hum of a paper mill, but now is unhurried 
and quiet, other than the occasional whizz of a timber 
lorry passing through town.

Wagner manages its forests, Montgomery answers, 
“with a policy of just trying to produce the highest-valued 
products as quickly and as much as they can, and it’s a 
short term management plan. There’s no sustainability.” 
Montgomery admits that he cannot say with certainty at 
what rate Wagner harvests timber, but he said he would bet 
it is “three or four times” that of truly sustainable logging 
companies. To put it simply, Montgomery argues that 
Wagner harvests far too fast to maintain an ecologically 
healthy forest. 

Montgomery ushers me over to his dining room table, 
where four printed-out satellite images lay side by side. 
Two of the photos show Bayroot’s land in Millsfield, one 
captured in 2003, when Bayroot bought the land, the 
other from 2015, after the land had been logged. The 2003 
photo reveals an emerald green earth, fractured only by 
a few skinny brown lines representing roads. Referring to 
the 2015 photo, Samson joked, “If a squirrel wanted to go 
across that land it would need a knapsack and lunch.”

As I view the images, Montgomery opens his laptop 
and pulls up the satellite software administered by the 
University of New Hampshire. He says that Dartmouth 
College owns and manages a timber operation on 
land adjacent to Bayroot’s land, in Cambridge, New 
Hampshire. Both Samson and Montgomery insist that 
Dartmouth practices exemplary forestry. 

Montgomery zooms in on the border of Bayroot’s land 
and Dartmouth’s land. “This is the Dartmouth property 
here,” he says, pointing to the right side of the screen. 
“And it is treated totally and completely different. Now 
there are places where they’ve harvested timber here, and 
you can actually see that.” Then he points a little to the 
left of the border. “But there’s nothing left here; this strip 
of land—there’s nothing left. It’s gone,” he says.

Even to my untrained eye, the evidence of clearcutting 
on Bayroot’s land seemed stark. But I still was not quite sure 
what to do with that knowledge. In the moment, I assumed 
clearcutting was not good practice, but upon further 
research, I discovered that it actually can be advisable in 
certain situations. In its guide to ecologically sound forest 
management, the New England Forestry Foundation 



**Title: Yale's Secret Forest**
**Author: Max Graham**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2019
 31
states, “Despite the public concern, clearcutting may 
be called upon where mature trees are in poor health or 
condition due to ice damage, insect infestation or other 
disturbances, or to create habitat for birds and mammals 
requiring larger patches of early-successional forest.” 
Could anyone really analyze Wagner’s practices from 
just a few satellite images, without knowing why and to 
what extent they actually engaged in those practices? 
Samson and Montgomery refer to the satellite images as 
indisputable evidence of Wagner’s ill management. But 
my doubt lingered.


After meeting with Samson and Montgomery, I 
reached out to Kevin Evans, the manager of Dartmouth’s 
timberland—called the Second College Grant. Evans 
thinks that sustainable forestry is pretty straightforward. 
“My goal is that I don’t cut anymore than I grow,” he said. 
The Second College Grant does not belong to Dartmouth’s 
endowment, but it is managed for profit and, according 
to its website, “provides revenue for student scholarship.” 
Evans calls the forest “an investment property,” but unlike 
the Yale Investments Office, Dartmouth uses its woodland 
for research and outdoor recreation, not only timber 
harvesting. Evans declined to comment on Wagner’s 
management. The most he would say about Yale is, “They 
don’t want to tell people what’s there.” 


I decided to go see what the people at Wagner would 
or would not tell me. When I arrived unannounced at 
Wagner’s field office in Errol, a white-bearded man in 
dark jeans and a red-and-black flannel button-down 
ushered me into the small office. I was shocked to be 
welcomed so amicably and even more surprised that, after 
a few minutes of rather awkward conversation, the man, 
Raymond Berthiaume, harvest planning and operations 
manager, agreed to speak with me. Berthiaume oversees 
more than 500,000 acres of land in New Hampshire and 
western Maine, mostly owned by Bayroot.


Berthiaume’s initial response to my concerns about 
Wagner’s logging practices was that the company is 
certified as “sustainable” by third-party auditors. In fact, 
Berthiaume told me, one of those companies—Sustainable 
Forestry Initiative, or SFI—was out on Wagner’s land 
auditing the company as we spoke. He said one or both of 
the auditors, the other called Forest Stewardship Council, 
or FSC, checks up on Wagner every year. The company’s 
website confirms that the certifications are “a critical part 
of Wagner’s business model” and guarantee “an objective 
evaluation of Wagner’s sustainability efforts.” The Yale 
Investments Office made a similar argument in a 2017 
press release, calling Wagner “a world-class manager of 
timberland.”


Montgomery and Samson had told me that the green 
certifications do not mean much, that it is not that hard 
to become certified and that Wagner and other timber 
companies actually pay for the certifications—a potential 
conflict of interest. But Berthiaume insisted that the 
auditors are entirely independent and have high standards. 
(Other foresters I have interviewed similarly dispelled 
claims that the auditors lack independence.) 


Compared to Yale’s secretive ownership, Berthiaume’s 
candor was refreshing. “I’d say Bayroot is probably the 
number one or two largest private landowners in the 
state,” he said. “If you’re driving through northern New 
Hampshire, there’s better than a 75 percent chance 
you’re looking at Bayroot-owned land.” Besides, many of 
Berthiaume’s points made perfect sense: “Wagner is in the 
business of managing timberland, so it’s in our interest 
to keep the timberland timberland. And, why would we 
change that? That’s cutting ourselves out of a job, and 
that’s not a good business plan.”


Berthiaume also denied Samson and Montgomery’s 
claims that Wagner engages in unsustainable practices 
like clearcutting. He fell back on the fact that Wagner 
has been certified as “sustainable” by two independent 
auditors. 


But as Coos County resident and environmental 
journalist Jamie Sayen would later tell me, “If you had 
a hundred people in a room and you asked them to 
write down the definition of ‘sustainable,’ you would 
have a hundred different definitions.” It occurred to me 
that maybe—likely, in fact—neither Montgomery nor 
Berthiaume was lying. They were just operating under 
different understandings of “sustainable.” 


Local opposition to Wagner’s forest management and 
to Yale’s furtive presence in Coos County extends beyond 
the logging question. In November 2012, Wagner leased 
a 24-mile stretch of Bayroot land in Coos County to 
Eversource Energy, an energy conglomerate planning to 
build a hydro-electric transmission line, called Northern 
Pass, from Quebec to Massachusetts. (The financial details 
of the lease were not publicly disclosed.) Eversource had 
been buying up land from local residents, trying to carve 
out a contiguous route for the $1.6 billion power cable 
through northern New Hampshire. Private landowners 
and environmental groups banded together to oppose the 


--- Page 32 ---

 32
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
project, which they argued would harm the landscape 
and hurt property value. Bayroot’s land was key. “Without 
Bayroot I don’t know if [Eversource] could have done it,” 
said Chris Jensen, a former reporter for New Hampshire 
Public Radio who covered the controversy in its early 
stages.  


News of Yale’s involvement with Bayroot only added to 
the opposition movement’s narrative of an out-of-touch 
corporation taking advantage of a small rural community. 
In a January 2018 Yale Daily News op-ed, Samson wrote that 
the transmission line would, among other harmful things, 
“mar forests that we have depended on and enjoyed for 
centuries.” Yale, Samson argued, “is extracting significant 
wealth from Coos County.” Charlie Jordan, who owns and 
edits the Colebrook Chronicle—a local weekly paper—
said Northern Pass is the only issue his paper has ever 
taken a stand on. “This was the fundamental crux of why 
people live here” 


In May 2017, Samson, Montgomery, and a few fellow 
Coos County residents traveled five hours to Yale to 
participate in a teach-in alongside student activists. Samson 
and the students also visited the School of Forestry hoping 
to meet with dean Indy Burke, but Samson said she was 
not there. He said upon returning home he received a call 
from the Yale police, who told him he might be arrested if 
he went back to Yale’s campus. (Samson does not have a 
record of the call.) Unfazed, Samson returned to campus 
in October 2017 to deliver a petition to the Investments 
Office, but he was barred entry. “I was not a dissident until 
I visited Yale,” Samson later reflected, grinning.


Throughout the Northern Pass controversy, Yale 
public affairs officers asserted that Wagner’s contract with 
Eversource had already been signed and that Wagner 
could not legally back out. Although the University refuses 
to speak in detail about its contract with Wagner, Yale’s 
argument appears something like: when the Investments 
Office enters into a contract with an investment manager, 
it sets general expectations and ethical guidelines for the 
manager but yields authority to interfere with day-to-
day operations. Yale did not have the power to terminate 
the Northern Pass lease nor would it have the power 
to change Wagner’s logging practices. Still, the Yale 
Investments Office’s website declares, “Yale will work 
with fund managers to implement its ethical investment 
policies” and can attempt “moral suasion.” When push 
comes to shove, Yale can sell its interest in a company to a 
secondary buyer. But that would cost money, not make it.


Ultimately, in July 2019, the Supreme Court of New 
Hampshire unanimously upheld a ruling that Eversource 
failed to demonstrate that the power line would not 
interfere with local land uses. The court’s ruling ended the 
Northern Pass project, but the fight has moved to Maine, 
where another power company, Central Maine Power, 
or CMP, hopes to route a similar transmission line from 
Quebec to Massachusetts. In late August, Wagner agreed 
to a deal with CMP to run the line across seventeen acres 
of Bayroot-owned land in Maine. The Bangor Daily News 
reported that Yale’s president Peter Salovey wrote in an 
Courtesy of Glenn Booma
Bayroot’s land in Coos County, New Hampshire.


--- Page 33 ---

 33
email to a concerned state representative that Yale has 
“no direct ownership of land in Maine,” but only “indirect 
property interests.” Salovey’s statement aligns with Yale’s 
curt defenses during the Northern Pass debate, but the 
fact remains that even an investor with “indirect property 
interests” has leverage. The issue is not that Yale lacks 
power; it is that the University doesn’t think that what is 
happening on its timberland constitutes a serious enough 
breach of ethics—or at least the University is not ready to 
reconsider how, or with whom, it invests in timber.


The Yale School of Forestry’s nearly 11,000 acres of 
New England timberland is entirely separate from the 
endowment’s. Frank Cervo, who manages the School’s 
woods, emphasized this fact several times to me, as did 
Professor Chad Oliver, who said there is a “firewall” 
between the Investments Office and the School of 
Forestry. Forestry professors and staff simply do not get 
involved in the management of the endowment. 


Curious about the “firewall,” I wrote to School of 
Forestry Dean Indy Burke. She replied,  “It’s not really 
a firewall, it’s just that we have our own forests” and to 
manage those “is about all we can possibly do.”  She said 
that the School of Forestry won’t criticize the endowment: 
“It’s rather like caring a great deal about your family but 
not getting involved or taking sides in your siblings’ marital 
issues just because you love and understand them.”  


Burke was nothing but gracious in her willingness 
to engage with me, and she even offered to meet with 
me in person, although not before my deadline for this 
piece. In her email, Burke rightfully pointed out that 
the implications of Wagner’s forestry management are 
complex. But Burke, as any Yale student or professor, has 
a stake in the endowment, and she, as the leader of one of 
the nation’s most prestigious forestry schools, has a unique 
position of power from which to weigh in on the ethics of 
timber management. 


Cervo graduated from the School of Forestry last year 
and has minimal knowledge about Wagner’s logging 
practices, but he cautions me about criticizing the 
company. He warns that some of the coverage he has 
seen about Wagner has lacked “basis” in forest ecology. In 
October 2018, Cervo took several Yale students on a tour 
of New Hampshire forestry, including Wagner-managed 
land. He called the company “gracious” hosts and said 
that nothing he observed seemed problematic. But, he 
admitted, “You’d need two to three weeks [on Wagner’s 
land] if you really wanted to diagnose what they’re doing.” 


I can’t conclude that Wagner is doing something 
categorically wrong. I don’t have the expertise to assert 
my own judgments about a company’s forestry practices, 
and I am not sure anyone who has the expertise as well 
as the means and time to assess Wagner’s operation 
comprehensively would speak to me on the record. I 
strongly suspect Wagner could be doing better. And I 
believe firmly that the Yale Investments Office should 
invest only with a company that practices exemplary 
forestry, even if doing so would generate less profit. But 
until we know exactly what Wagner is doing on Yale’s land 
and until the right people start looking into what Wagner 
is doing on Yale’s land, forming an accurate conclusion 
about whether or not Wagner practices “sustainable” 
forestry may be impossible.


Yale’s endowment covers more than a quarter of the 
University’s operating budget, including professorships 
and financial aid. And the Investments Office engages in 
secrecy no doubt to prevent competitors from discovering 
their investment strategies. Secrecy gives Yale a leg up. 
It helps Yale fund critical programs. It benefits all of us, 
students and faculty alike.


At the same time, secrecy prevents us, stakeholders, 
from holding the University to the high standards that 
it preaches. At an institution which prides itself in the 
pursuit of Lux et Veritas, which teaches its students to 
be curious, to ask questions, and to challenge boilerplate 
narratives, secrecy about the ethics of its investments is a 
violation of Yale’s own stated values.


“If the heat gets too hot in the kitchen,” Glenn Booma 
said, Yale will change how it invests in timber. “The 
heat’s just not hot enough yet because you’ve got to drive 
hundreds of miles from New Haven and twenty-five miles 
up a dirt road in order to look at this stuff.” I drove that 
distance, and I would encourage others to do the same. 
Only then will what happens beneath the forest canopy 
become clearer. And only then will we know if the kitchen 
will get too hot. 
– Max Graham is a senior
in Davenport College.



**Title: STERLING'S HOLD ON ME**
**Author: IRENE VÁZQUEZ**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
T
he first boy I loved at Yale won my heart 
in the core of Sterling Memorial Library. 


After dinner at Berkeley one September night, 
he told me that he’d happened upon a book he thought 
I would enjoy, so he’d put it on hold for me, and would 
I like to go with him and pick it up? We put away our 
dishes, and we made our way to the Sterling Hold Shelf, 
where he had requested Philip Gross’s Mappa Mundi. It 
was my first visit to the Hold Shelf, and walking past the 
rows of alphabetized volumes to the shelf labeled “Q” 
(the first letter of his last name), I could think of nothing 
more romantic than having a dangerously pretty boy 
make a book of poetry materialize out of the stacks for 
my reading pleasure. I affectionately clutched the slim 
green volume to my chest. 


The boy and I are no longer speaking; in fact, when 
the book was due months later, I’ll admit, I considered 
holding onto it so he’d be beset with late fees. In the 
two years that have passed since that night, I’ve been a 
frequent guest at the Hold Shelf, and I’ve never gotten 
over the rush of swiping in to retrieve a book set aside 
especially for me. 


I guess in a place with millions of volumes, an entire 
room qualifies as a “shelf.” The Hold Shelf’s entrance, 
a trio of forest-green leather doors studded with brass 
nails, stands below “Alma Mater,” a mural by Yale 
alum Eugene Savage depicting a celestial Mother 
Knowledge flanked by her devotees. The Hold Shelf is 
the library’s middle child. It lacks the majesty of the 
nave, whose name gestures at Sterling’s cathedral-like 
nature. (Yale Tour Guide Legend™ has it that in the 
late 1920s, architect James Gamble Rogers wanted to 
design a chapel for Yale but received the commission 
to design a library instead, so he concocted the most 
cathedral-like library he could muster.) Sterling opened 
in 1931; the Hold Shelf opened in 2013 as part of a $20 
million modernization of the nave. 


But entering the Hold Shelf from the grandeur 
of the nave—stone arches, coffered ceiling, stained 
glass windows—reveals a startlingly utilitarian space. 
White chain-link fencing quite literally cordons it off 
from the endless stacks. Each shelf, where holds are 
grouped by last name of the requester, are also chained 
off. Compared to the abundance of the stacks, the 
shelves never look quite full enough. The lights are 
at once aggressively fluorescent and too dim. It’s a 
fundamentally transactional space; most customers at 
the hold shelf go in because they require a book and 
leave once they’ve retrieved it. This efficiency is what 
the 2013 renovations were all about: combining the 
previously disparate desks of Circulation, Information, 
and Library Privileges into one desk and using the 
space freed up at the end of the nave for self-service 
check-out, workstations, and of course, the Hold Shelf. 


This automated expediency is magical to me. At the 
Hold Shelf, I can request book after book, and print 
copies of Yale’s nearly 15 million volumes appear 
just like an Amazon Prime Delivery (but without the 
ethical compromises). “Get it @ Yale,” the web page 
that outlines the university’s various methods of book 
delivery, speaks to its Internet Age immediacy. Access 
needs aside, it’s this same acquisitive rush that fuels 
online shopping addictions and the willingness to pay 
exorbitant delivery fees on UberEats. 


Much like Amazon Prime, the near-instantaneous 
acquisition and online request system can obscure 
the work that goes into maintaining “the beast” that 
is Sterling Memorial Library, as my friend Mia Arias-
Tsang put it. Mia worked in the Stacks department of 
Sterling through her first two years. “There’s a lot more 
work that goes into it than one might think,” she noted. 
“And it’s almost completely run by students.” 


In my frequent visits, it’s rare that I actually see 
someone on shift at the Hold Shelf. But on one mid-
morning trip, I pause at the dry erase board at the 
back of the room, which cheerily announces that it’s 
a “Magnificent Monday.” The tasks spelled out on the 
board reveal the hidden hands that keep the shelf in 
order: 8-9: Removed unwanted holds, pulled expired 
books—WS; 9-10: Shelved, Accuracy Check A-M—DB; 
10-11: Sh. books, Acc. Check C.A./S.R. 


Some of Mia’s work in the Stacks Department 
involved prepping books for their journey down to 
the shelf. Discharge, the process of scanning books 
returned to Sterling and re-sorting them for their 
prospective readers, was her favorite part of the job (not 
only because it was the one part where she was allowed 
to sit down).


As she printed the tickets, she’d look out for names 
she recognized to see what her friends were reading, 
and over time she came to know a few of the Hold Shelf 
regulars. “I’d never have met them in my life, but I’d see 
they’d have a whole bunch of books on something super 
obscure like Catholic Art History or the Crusades,” 
Mia said. “There’d be like 20 books on the crusades for 
one person, and I’d be like ‘Damn, hope Christopher 
Martinez is having a good time researching this.’” 


In the years that Mia worked at Sterling, I’d look 
forward to the photos she’d send when she came across 
my name during her shelving shifts. There, at the shelf 
marked “V” for Vázquez, I picked up books that would 
become fundamental to my life and research like 
Dionne Brand’s The Blue Clerk or books I requested but 
never opened like The Company He Keeps: A History of 
White College Fraternities. I still remember the blustery 
January day my sophomore year when I took refuge 
in the warmth of the Hold Shelf to pick up Yarimar 
Bonilla’s Non-Sovereign Futures. It’s a foundational 
book for my research in French Caribbean poetics, 
and after discovering the introduction in PDF form 
freshman year, it was finally in my hands. It felt like 
something was beginning. I may not have ever finished 
Mappi Mundi, but it was the Hold Shelf that won my 
heart that September night. Alma Mater was more 
visible to me inside those forest-green doors than at the 
mural outside; light and truth were always waiting for 
me there. 
– Irene Vázquez is a junior in 
Berkeley College.
Design by Meher Hans



 36
Truth
History
Democracy
Hear from some of the most outstanding 
journalists in the world and gain insight into 
the media and its role in contemporary culture.
poynter.yale.edu

