Publication date: November 12, 1967
Volume: one
Issue number: three


**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Gerald Bruck, Daniel Yergin
- Business Manager: Peter Yaeger
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Associate Editor: Paul Malamud
- Associate Business Manager: Jeffrey Pollock
- Classified Manager: William M. Burstein
- Copy Editor: Wm. Clay Howe


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Eugene Ionesco - Jonathan Marks
- Washington Weekend - Gerald Bruck
- The Profession of History - Stoughton Lynd
- Letters - Comment: Chaperone, Asia, Airplane, Orchestra, Beach Boys, Shaw, Moon


**Title: Chaperone**
**Author: Tiercel Jenvil**
**Page number(s): 2**

Four years ago I was a date in my own 
right, stamped official and game, in the 
fraternity hall. Now my only date is 
lifelong with housework, but here my 
husband and I go and get hired on as 
chaperones for a bash at the same frat. 

A frat party, a fraternity party, oh boy, 
oh man, you know what that means-the 
bottle-smashing, trow-dropping men and 
their fabulous mythical girls. And we, 
the chaperones. 

"You'd better cut that out," I'm prepar-
ing to say. "Six inches apart, minimum. 
Decency, please, respect law and order 
and your local policeman." 

But, though the place is still the same, 
the times change, the old victrola rejects 
plain old rock-and-roll, and this looks 
to be The New Fraternity Party. 

"Who are these hippies?" I asked the 
young man, who seemed to be encased in 
cold slime, en gele, under his Brooks 
Brothers suit. 

He made a noise of disgust in his throat 
that sounded like cut fingernails clacking 
around in a vacuum cleaner bag. "I assure 
you, there are no hippies here." 

On second glance I realized that the 
hippies-or pseudo-hippies maybe-were 
only hired help to do the light show, and 
that the real natives were all pulling their 
oar-the little oars on their ties, the 
big oar of their group spirit and group 
image-in honor of their fraternity party. 

I felt somehow out of time-and 
nothing in the proto-frugging being done 
by girls in long knee-biting skirts would 
have told me that it was '67 and not '63, 
had I just snapped out of amnesia and 
found myself there. There was one orna-
mental girl, with yeasty bosoms exploding 
out of the top of her dress, who looked 
like the legend-in-her-own-time of the lot, 
but no one seemed to be writhing in her 
wake. If she'd been an F. Scott Fitzgerald 
heroine she would have been worth a 
. good 20 pages, but here she seemed to be 
practically buying her own drinks. 

A lot of other girls, less memorable, but 
just as popular/ unpopular as she, were 
hanging around like parsley at the edge 
of a steak, while their dates took charge of 
the situation, and chatted it up with the 
other men as if they were the ones they'd 
waited all week to see. One ringleader 
type, surrounded by friends, but dateless, 
came over to watch the men put blood-
blobby slides in the projector for the light 
show. He had a face that was remarkably 
expressionless, but for a tiny salacious 
smirk (a strip-poker face?) and said to me, 
out of the blue, "Do you know Kenneth?" 

"Urn," I said. 

"Kenneth is just one of the greatest 
people in this whole fraternity." 

Well bully for Kenneth, but who was 
he? The light show operator? (no, it had 
been made clear to me that those people 
were not One of Us), someone in his 
entourage? the head of something? Who-
ever he was, this kiss of praise falling from 
the lips of Coldface seemed to be the only 
information forthcoming. He turned away, 
and refused to put up with further 
questioning. 

People were dancing in greater and 
lesser degrees of behind-the-times-ness, 
but no one watched them-all eyes were 
fixed on the light show going blitheryblip 
on the walls and occasionally catching 
someone on the dance floor in an old 
movie broken-frames effect. Where was 
the drinking and wild throwing of shows 
that people used to brag about in the 
same breath as they complained of their 
hangover? Pushed out of the league by 
drugs? Maybe. Whatever, the old line 
handed out by college boys that three 
drinks could make you completely 
irresponsible of anything you did, out of 
your mind, man, practically hallucinating 
-and any girl beddable within minutes, 
had either been given the lie, or else was 
just not the thing in this society. 

Maybe like fairies (the Peter Pan kind) 
the phenomenon only exists if you believe 
in it-and there was one man there who 
clearly did believe it-a graduate 
celebrating the drunken blasts of yester-
year in a drunken blast of today. He 
went loping around giving the only rushes 
that were given out, to all or any of the 
girls, and calling his wife, a woman whose 
smile was pickled in long-suffering 
patience, "that battleax" within earshot. 

Having more or less failed with the girls, 
he began bending the deaf ears of the 
members of this, his old fraternity, and 
giving the frat handshake and saying the 
password ("• • • • •, • •• • •") indiscreetly 
to everyone. 

The one person who would listen to him 
was a tender looking hippie (he just works 
here) who looked like the frontispiece 
drawing in a book of romantic poetry. 

"Yes, I go to Yale," he said to the drunk, 
"but I'm dropping out next term, dig?" 

He didn't seem to dig too deep, so the 
hippie told him, as if it were so obvious 
that only a drunk could fail to compre-
hend. 

"You lose your mind here, see? It 
hurts your mind to study, my brain is 
getting so stuffed up with garbage every 
day, I'm almost dead." 

"Maybe you could write copy for 
dropout posters," I suggested. 

"Let me tell you one thing," the drunk 
informed him, "these are the best years 
you'll ever have." 

The hippie faded away, and the drunk 
and I looked at each other blankly. 

People were dancing, or not dancing, 
pusillanimously, and though of course 
everyone was well behaved, diffident, 
cool, and I was glad to be beyond the age 
where such occasions could affect my life 
either way-to have liberty from frater-
nities. But at the same time I felt almost 
cheated of adventure, and so did the 
drunk. 

"We had some pretty wild times here 
in my day," he said with regret. Plain old 
rock-and-roll, I thought. 


**Title: Asia**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**

Hubert Humphrey told a Pennsylvania 
audience in mid-October about "aggressive 
Asian Communism with its headquarters 
in Peking, China." When Robert Oxnam, 
a graduate student in Chinese history, read 
that, he realized that he couldn't take any 
more Administration analyses of the Far 
East. 

Oxnam talked with others among the 
one hundred graduate students and under-
graduates at Yale who specialize in some 
aspect of East Asian studies or Southeast 
Asian studies to determine how to make their 
ideas and information available to the 
public. With an eye to the approaching 
Presidential election, they decided to form 
an East Asia Information Project. There 
are now almost thirty students involved in 
the Project, which will provide speakers 
for community groups, schools, etc. 

Although most of the members of the 
Project oppose the present U.S. China 
policy and the U.S. involvement in Viet-
nam, they agreed not to support any 
uniform statement of opposition. "The 
purpose of the group," explains Oxnam, 
"is to present a broadly liberal perspective 
on the current state of the U.S. involve-
ment in Vietnam and the present U.S. 
China policy." 

The members of the group represent the 
entire spectrum of Far East studies at Yale 
and include a former State Dept. officer 
and three former Peace Corps members. 
Oxnam himself is working on his Ph.D. in 
modern Chinese history under Mary 
Wright and Jonathan Spence. 


**Title: Airplane**

Woolsey Hall can be better used than for 
Kingman Brewster's chinless attack on the 
Rev. Coffin, as was proved last Saturday 
night with Indian Neck's Jefferson Air-
plane concert. Not Airplanes, but Air-
plane, singular, that's important. A band 
of renegades, desperadoes, half-breeds 
from San Francisco, five men and a tough, 
lush girl named Grace Slick, who sings 
with a whip in her voice, drift onto a stage 
filled with $6000 or twice that worth of 
amplifiers, arranged like a transplant from 
the Computer Center. They took a little 
while, fooling about, but then, soaring 
above the pain threshold with 115 decibels 
· of vocal sound and 4000 watts of guitar 
amplification, a fellow going wild with 
colored lights, they found themselves. 

A plastic, fantastic lover called the Air-
plane. 

"You may have noticed the light show," 
said one after a few minutes, "we bring it 
with us everywhere." 

It's their world, it's where the Airplane 
·comes from, blue and purple, pink and red 
lights flashing to the rhythms, rhythms 
bursting out, the music whirring, twang-
ing, as though echoed a thousand-fold 
from a thousand foot deep pit, and Grace 
Slick curling back, snapping her voice, 
ten feet tall. 


**Title: Orchestra**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

The Yale Symphony Orchestra gave its 
first concert of the season in Sprague 
Memorial Hall on Saturday night, 
October 28. The program consisted of a 
Sinfonia by K. P. E. Bach, Brahms' 
Tragic Overture and the Beethoven violin 
concerto. The concert was typical of what 
one has learned to expect from this young 
organization: an interesting and musically 
challenging program performed with 
spirit, enthusiasm-and a few rough 
edges. The orchestra's music director, 
Richmond Browne, who is assistant 
professor of music theory at Yale, con-
ducted the first two pieces with some real 
success, although in the Bach Sinfonia 
the harpsichord was all but inaudible. 

The Beethoven concerto was, however, 
the highlight of the evening, both tech-
nically and musically. John Mauceri, a 
student in the Graduate School department 


**Title: The Gorgeous Laugh of Eugene Ionesco**
**Author: Jonathan Marks**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

I arrived at 11 a.m. on the dot, just as we 
had planned on the phone. Mustered up 
all the coffee-stoked courage I had, and 
pushed the bell. Long wait. No sound. I 
looked around. The top floor of a rather 
high-class Paris apartment-house. Sun-
light. Under the doorbell, their nameplate: 
IONESCO. 

Then, finally, footsteps down the hall. 
The sound of the lock being opened from 
within. Then another lock. Two more. 
Finally the door swung open, and a very 
small woman stood in front of me in her 
bedclothes, squinting from the light. 

She had just awakened. 

"Madame Ionesco?" 

"Oui, Monsieur." 

"I'm here to speak with your husband. 
We have an appointment for 11 o'clock." 

She looked puzzled. I tried to clear 
things up. 

"Oh," she said, the light finally dawning, 
"you're the comedien! Weren't you 
supposed to come next Tuesday?" 

Damn, thought I. It was my last day in 
Europe; I couldn't have made it for 
Tuesday. She hovered for a minute 
between sending me away and inviting me 
in. Then: 

"Come in and sit down. I'll see if my 
husband can speak with you." 

A nondescript green armchair. The 
living room is filled with modern art, 
abstract, yet it is not itself a modern room. 
Ionesco appears at one door, disappears 
through another. The maid walks through, 
looks around disapprovingly, and also 
disappears. 

Then Ionesco comes in to greet me. 
His pajama top is white, his pajama 
bottoms are purple. His robe is yet 
another purple. We are friends from the 
start. 

"So glad you were able to get hold of 
me," he said. "But weren't you supposed 
to come on Tuesday?" 

We retired to the study and sat down to 
chat. The room was lined with books. 
Not an "absurdist" library, I thought; too 
scholarly. The desk-top was full of 
rhinoceroses of all sizes and textures. 

"You must love rhinoceroses," I 
ventured. 

"Not very much, no. It's just that since 
I wrote the play everyone thought that 
I loved them, and all my friends started 
sending them to me. The same thing 
happened with The Chairs. Now when 
I'm in a room full of people and somebody 
uses the word 'chair' or 'rhinoceros,' 
everyone looks at me as if I had invented 
the chair and the rhinoceros. Won't you 
have a whiskey?" 

We retired into the living room, 
where the maid had set up a tray. I had 
to help him pour out his fruit juice and 
mineral water (good for the liver), 
because his right hand was in a cast. He 
explained that it had happened during his 
summer vacation in the Midi, when he 
had tried to ski down a staircase. 

There was a wild, contorted statue in 
the manner of Cesar that seemed to be a 
man in a funny hat on a sway-backed 
horse. The man's face was featureless, his 
body was twisted and lumpy. 

"C'est moi," he said. "The sculptor 
wanted to create the ultimate parody of 
the equestrian statue." I told him that 
the resemblances were striking-the eyes, 
the mouth, the arms, the bearing. We 
laughed. 

Ionesco laughs with his eyes and with 
his entire mouth, from diaphragm to lips. 
And the eyebrows-at once strikingly 
prominent yet seemingly lost in that great 
craggy plain of baldness-punctuating 
the laugh. Only the incredibly wide, flat 
nose anchors the other features down by 
staying still. All in all, a gorgeous laugh. 

I showed him the photographs of the 
Yale Dramat's spring, 1967 production of 
his Hunger and Thirst, so far the only 
production of this play in English. He 
had told me over the phone that he was 
anxious to hear about our production; 
since the time he had arranged for us to 
get the rights, the only thing he had heard 
was a sketchy report from his friend, the 
Polish critic Jan Kott, who taught at 
Yale last year. He quizzed me about all 
sorts of details . . . was there enough 
lighting for the brilliant fresh-air plateau 
in front of the museum in the second 
episode? . . . where did we get our 
actresses? ... and what were the monks 
doing in these photos of the "Good Inn" 
of the third episode? 

I explained to him, somewhat 
timorously at first, how much we had cut 
the scene and changed the order of lines 
to give it more direction. Far from being 
offended, he seemed pleased and inter-
ested, most of all in the gestures he saw 
the monks doing. I explained to him that 
we had differed radically in this respect 
from the production of the Comedie-
Francaise. The monks were not mute 
mimists; they were given an active part 
in the interrogation-brainwashing-revival; 
prayers, imprecations, chants, black 
mass blasphemies. Nor were they rooted 
to the symmetrical Brechtian bleachers, 
as they had been in Paris; they swayed, 
they circled, they practically danced. 

Ionesco thought it was wonderful. He 
thinks it would have been better if the 
Comedie-Francaise had done it that way. 
He wishes he had written it that way. 
He goes to tell his wife. 

The playwright wanted to know about 
the director, Leland Stowe, about the 
actors, and about the general setup of the 
Dramat. In passing I mentioned the lack 
of rehearsal time and the physical 
punishment the cast and crew went 
through to get this particular play on the 
stage. I started onto another subject, but 
he stopped me. 

"I am very touched," he said. 

Later, he was admiring a marvelous 
photo of the ghost of mad Aunt Adelaide, 
who was played by Eleanor Evans, a fine 
lady of New Haven theater and a Dramat 
actress and friend for thirty years. He 
asked about her. I told him that she had 
died within a month after the final curtain. 
He stared hard at the picture for thirty 
seconds or so, then sat back, took off his 
glasses, and breathed. 

Still later in the day, while Ionesco was 
in another room, his wife, in a totally 
different context, mentioned a closeness 
that both of them feel to the actors who 
create his characters. It all fit in. That was 
why I was there. 

He worried about the reviews-much 
more so than I would have thought. I gave 
him the Register's and the Providence 
Journal's. I helped him a little with the 
English. He actually reads it pretty well, 
though he doesn't speak it at all; the 
English lessons that led to The Bald 
Soprano apparently bore little fruit other 
than the play itself. Several years ago 
he had spent some time at the apartment 
of the cartoonist Sol Steinman in New 
York. There were always lots of people 
around, but few of them spoke French or 
Rumanian, so after a couple of days he 
stopped trying to communicate and just 
drank a lot and smiled at everyone, and 
enjoyed himself immensely. Incidentally, 
Ionesco's first language was French, not 
Rumanian; theories about modern 
dramatists writing in their second 
language have no relevance to him. He 
feels that he is entirely within the line of 
French writers-especially in that he 
revolts against all of them. 



**An Interview with Eugène Ionesco**
**Author: Jonathan Marks**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Joumall November 12, 1967 
We discussed the meaning of Hunger 
and Thirst, its style, its shape, my part. 
I understood him; having been as close to 
the work for as long as I was, its 
significance could not have been totally 
lost on me. Lee Starnes had been right in 
deciding that the character Tripp bears no 
relation to Samuel Beckett. This wide-
spread misinterpretation was the doing of 
an early reviewer, and has been dupli-
cated almost without fail ever since. In 
fact, the play originally had no direct 
references to Brecht; the other clown's 
name was changed to Brechtoll simply to 
add a little extra bite when the play 
opened in DUsseldorf, Germany. Making 
Tripp a figure for Beckett would be 
ridiculous; Tripp is the pious Catholic 
in extremis, Beckett was born An Irish 
Protestant, and has not sipce become any 
more pious. 


This line of conversation naturally led 
to the character Jean B~renger, who 
appears in several Ionesco plays and is 
often described as Ionesco's alter ego. He's 
not that, strictly speaking. Jean has a lot 
of Eugene in him-but he has his own 
existence, too. Besides, he changes a 
little in each play. Still and all, Eugene 
feels awfully close to Jean. 


We went on about critics in general. 
Fairly uncharitably. They write that his 
themes are unconscious. Not so, says he. 
He has written another episode for 
Hunger and Thirst, which will soon be 
published. He'll keep writing new ones, 
continuing the story. If you want to 
produce the play, just pick your three 
favorites. 


Ionesco agreed with most of Prof. 
Jacques Guicharnaud's comments on the 
play in the original Friday last year. The 
third episode, according to the author, 
is "an anti-Brechtian play in the style of 
Brecht." 


I described Silliman College's contro-
versial production of The Bald Soprano 
last year, and the various violences that 
the director, Bart Teush, committed on the 
text. Ionesco listened. He questioned, be 
puzzled, and be laughed. Surprisingly, he 
seemed disturbed that the actors had been 
watching the television in the first part of 
the play; when he wrote it, almost twenty 
years ago, one would hardly have expected 
to find a TV in a typically British home. 


I pointed out that one doesn't worry about 
anachronisms when one puts on Ionesco. 
Ionesco was content. 


We talked. And talked. Without order 
sometimes. We leaned in to work out 
intricacies; we leaned back to laugh, I got 
drunk. 


The question of literary influence carne 
up. Ionesco said that while the present 
masters of European drama do keep 
interested and informed about each 
other's work, this could not properly be 
called an influence; it's too superficial. 
Kafka, for example, did influence Ionesco 
-but Ionesco didn't begin to feel this 
influence until a dozen years after reading 
him. 


We spoke about the other playwrights of 
modern France, and the productions of 
their plays then appearing in Paris; we 
had seen many of the same plays. We had 
even been at A vi goon at about the same 
time-but I bad been attending the 
Festival (the most important summer 
event in French theatre) and Ionesco bad 
just been walking around the town looking 
for the narrowest streets. He had been 
:nvited to the Festival to act the part of 
the father in Philippe Adrien's La Baye, 
but he had declined because of worry 
about his health. We touched on Beckett, 
Genet, Sartre, de Ghelderode, Arrabal, 
Adamov, and Obaldia, among others. He 
feels that the .. absurdist" revolution of 
the early fifties was the work of Beckett, 
Pinter, and himself-but actually, he 
admits, he is not really familiar with 
Pinter's plays; only a few of them have 
been translated, and still fewer have been 
produced in Paris. He seems to feel much 
closer to Samuel Beckett, though. They 
don't see each other too often, but seem to 
keep in touch. lonesco admires him 
immensely. 


Strange. I find myself talking about 
Ionesco in the third person while talking 
to him across his coffee table. He doesn't 
seem to notice that it's a bit ridiculous; 
he doesn't seem to mind. Sometimes he 
takes it up, more often he speaks of the 
theatre of Ionesco in the first person. 
Sometimes what he says would appear 
immodest or downright boastful, but 
something in his manner announces that 
matters of pride are fairly irrelevant with 
Ionesco. At moments he may be touchy 
and defensive, at other moments self-
denigrating, but finally he ends up 
dispersing the whole problem with that 
laugh. In his Victims of Duty the poet 
Nicolas d'Eu announces, in effect, "No, I 
don't write at all, and I'm proud of it. It 
would be useless; we already have Ionesco 
and Ionesco. That's enough." The man 
asks to be laughed at, and with. 


A couple of times my French breaks 
down. I try to ask him a complex question 
and he doesn't get what I'm driving at. 
I try again and he answers me in the most 
elementary terms. I change the subject 
and feel foolish. Very sobering. 


We talked a great deal about politics. I 
hadn't expected that a playwright so 
opposed to engage theatre should be so 
conscious of it-but it all fit into place, 
eventually. It seems that he has been 
haunted by the idea of totalitarianism. 
World War II is never far from his 
thoughts, and its monoliths pervade his 
dreams. His writing is often a purgation of 
these nightmares, as it was for Kafka. 
Arrabal is similarly tortured by the 
father-figure of his native Spain, but 
Ionesco would have him give even freer 
rein than he does already to his various 
panics. Through subjective theatre, 
Ionesco feels, one can reach a high degree 
of universality. 


He is soon to have an article pi.Jblished 
suggesting that Americans not be so 
sensitive to foreign criticism--especially 
French. De Gaulle, he says, represents and 
leads that considerable faction of 
Frenchmen who resent the fact that the 
United States bas twice saved France, 
and so ignore this fact and blame the 
U.S. for anything and everything. Such 
countries, as be sees it, not only force 
America to stand alone in defense of the 
entire free world, cavilers included, 
against totalitarianism, but also are mak-
ing Americans doubt that their stand is 
just. Vietnam, he readily admits, is 
bothersome to the extreme--but be 
doesn't know what else the U.S. could 
have done. 


We touch on Yale, contemporary 
America, my life, my plans. My immedi-
ate plan was a 4:00 flight back to the 
States. Two hours away. I would need 
lunch, n'est-ce pas? And so came lunch, 
in several quite agreeable courses. Just the 
three of us, me at the head of the table. 
Ionesco worried about his diet, his liver, 
his medicine. He looked at his plate help-
lessly; his wife noticed, got up and 
toddled around behind me, and cut his 
meat. He put his broken hand on the 
table and grumbled disgustedly, "I'm 
just like an infant." B~renger! 


This and that were discussed. Mme 
lonesco entered in a great deal. She's 
very pleasant. She keeps the files: reviews, 
letters, photos and aucb. She keeps things 
going. Her first language was Rumanian. 
In a fit of astonishing largesse and benevo-
lence, I congratulated her on her 
practically perfect French accent. Perhaps 
a fit of whiskey and red wine. 


After the main course Mme Ionesco 
stepped on a button she had plugged in 
under the table before the meal, and a 
buzzer rang in the kitchen for the maid. 
After a few minutes she buzzed again. 
After a few more minutes she cleared the 
table herself and brought on the cheese 
and yogurt. Around peach time the 
doctor came to give Ionesco his daily shot. 
It was over. I gulped down the peach 
and stood. If I were a Pataphysician-a 
follower of the non-philosophy of the 
pre-Absurdist dramatist J arry-1 would 
have had to take my leave of him bowing, 
walking backwards, and calling him 
"your transcendency," because of his 
high rank in the cult. I decided it would 
be better not to. They thanked me much 
for coming. I tried my best to say the right 
things. 


I went out the multi-locked door, took 
the lift down, and ran for a cab to Orly. 
JONATHAN MARKS, a senior in Yale 
College and vice-president of the Yale 
Dramat, played a leading role last spring 
in the Dramat's production of Ionesco's 
Hunger and Thirst. Marks visited lonesco 
in August.


**Yale Draft Refusal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 6**

Yale Draft 
Refusal 
Over 250 students have signed the Yale 
Draft Refusal Pledge. However, difficulties 
in assembling mailing lists have prevented 
our contacting many in the Yale community. 
If you wish to sign, simply fill out the state-
ment below. Faculty members with extended 
draft liability are also invited to sign. 
We need money for printing and advertising 
expenses. Mail cards and contributions to: 
Yale Draft Refusal Committee 
P .0. Box 2053 
Yale Station 
New Haven, Connecticut 06520 
We are men of draft age who believe that the 
United States is waging an unjust war in Vietnam. 
We cannot, in conscience, participate in this war. We 
therefore declare our determination to refuse 
induction as long as the United States is fighting in 
Vietnam. 
(I understand that my signature releases my name for 
publication.} 
signature 
Yale affiliation 
address 
phone 


Friday, Nov. 10 
FAUST (1928) by F. W. Murnau 
With Emil Jannlngs 
Perhaps the greatest film of the German silent 
era, Murnau's classic ranges from the immensity 
of an epic to the intimacy of a love story in its 
unique handling of the famous legend. 
Yale Film 
Society 
Saturday, Nov. 18 
ORDET (1954) by Carl Dreyer 
" A semi-pathological portrait of mystical mad-
ness." Selected by the editors of CAHIERS DU 
CINEMA as one of the ten greatest films ever made. 


AT&T 
Accommodations 
$5 / Night for single room 
One or more nights on big weekends 
Typing 
Regular typing 35¢/ page 
(24-hour service) 
Overnight typing 60¢ I page 
(Midnight til 9 a.m. following morning) 
Bursar's bill privileges 
We type doctoral theses 
Tutoring 
Tutors needed in Spanish and Chemistry 
at junior and senior high school levels 
$3 to $4/ hour 
Call562- 1471 
Office hours 7- 8 p.m., 10 p.m.-midnight 
Sunday- Thursday 



**Title: Notes on a Washington Weekend**
**Author: Gerald Bruck**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
7I 'Ibe New Journal I November 12, 1967 
Notes on a 
Washington Weekend 
By Gerald Bruck 
These are the times for impassioned tales, 
of what it was like when I realized what 
our government really was, of how it felt 
to confront it, and Am I a revolutionary 
now, or not? Will Robert Kennedy end 
the war? Should I dynamite the induction 
center? Oh, you should have been in 
Washington the 21st. "As night fell 
Saturday, the Pentagon looked like a 
citadel under seige," wrote one James K. 
Glassman in the Harvard Crimson. Man, 
you should have been there. 

Washington's October 21 mobilization 
may indeed prove important in the history 
of America, not because courageous 
Americans confronted the warmakers, 
which they didn't, or were beaten back 
with the massed might of America, which 
they weren't, but because it tended to look 
that way to some of the few thousand 
who got all the way to the Pentagon, and 
they will spread the word. 

In past years, the movement against 
domestic racism and now the war has been 
able to trick the opposition into brutal 
and dramatic positions-behind police 
dogs, under helmets, wearing guns and 
clubs-with the end in view of swaying 
the million of glassy eyes out in tv land. 
Now the Negroes got their civil rights laws, 
but somehow it's the same old stuff and 
our war on Vietnam has grown like a 
cancer. 

So the October march was turned 
inward, it's end to radicalize its partic-
ipants, to end the fuzziness of making a 
choice in America, its justification one of 
"building a movement," the quiet folk 
will have to join us from now on. 

Robert Sherrill wrote in the Nation 
that the spontaneity of everyone doing 
their thing that weekend scared the gods 
of the press and the Pentagon, though the 
future effect of this is not predicted. 

Andrew Kopkind wrote in The New 
Statesman that maybe the inftuentials 
will be scared by this undefinable rabble 
in motion against the war, and will work 
to end the war in hope that the internal 
disorder it has conjured up will vanish 
also. Ray Mungo, who writes for the 
Liberation News Service, told me that 
this vague coalition of almost everyone 
"will be invincible" and people from all 
over will be drawn into it. James Reston, 
well, you can guess what he wrote. 

I followed the show from Friday night 
through 65 hours, went too many places, 
talked to too many people, in a way saw 
too much, to be fired with that spirit of 
revolution, and the whole event left me 
with more a premonition of doom than 
of a new era. The fact of uniformed men 
under orders which entirely cut them off 
from their surroundings was not sur-
mounted by the few effective attempts at 
dialogue that occurred, by the few soldiers 
who were swayed toward peace, by the 
patent absurdity of the entire encounter. 

I stayed with the people who stuck it 
out at the Pentagon, I had less sleep then 
they, I was hungrier, and I almost got hit 
by the marshals several times. But I lacked 
one luxury they enjoyed: they were among 
one another, and outside that little circle it 
was very lonely indeed. I especially re-
member one point Saturday night, hungry 
to the point of dizziness and freezing in 
shirtsleeves, when I tried to make my way 
to a distant parking lot and ran into lines 
of soldiers everywhere I stumbled in the 
complicated terrain surrounding the 
Pentagon. Blocking roads, behind bushes, 
everywhere there were soldiers, all under 
orders not to talk to anyone, ·and for 
almost two hours I wandered hopelessly 
lost in this nightmare landscape peopled 
with mute, armed, statues. 

What strange sights greeted the pro-
testors as they flowed into the Pentagon 
parking lot that beautiful cigaret ad day, 
into the (as per signed agreement) liberated 
parking lot. The main platform con-
structed for the speakers attracted few 
a_rrivals and at first the crowd grew around 
the freak stage, where sorcerers, swamees, 
priests, warlocks, rabbis, gurus, witches, 
alchemists, medicine men, speed freaks 
and other holy men had gathered. Joining 
hands, they were to raise the mighty OM-
the pure, perfect, crystal sound-and 
the Pentagon would rise trembling in the 
air, and they were to shout, "We are 
free, great God almighty, Free at last!", 
weird indeed, though not quite so weird 
as the times, and for anyone who really 
wanted to freak out, the place was a few 
score yards from the main platform where 
the anti-communist Reverend Richard 
Wurmbrand, of the European Christian 
Mission, a man who turns up all over the 
place, was standing in the crows-nest of a 
twenty-foot metal arm attached to a white 
truck, attacking communism and saying 
that the U.S. was good. As a few marchers 
came over to dialogue, the reverend slowly 
descended from the sky, all the while 
waving his arms and continuing his call 
for all good men to see the danger, and 
then ripping off his shirt to display the 
marks of communist torture. Protestors 
moved in, some oozing with humble 
sincerity ("I don't like Communism either, 
but anything would be better for the 
people of Vietnam than what's going on 
now"), others bitter, angry, an impossible 
scene. 

Then down the parking lot past the 
hippie zone (where speakers were asking 
beautiful people to form protective rings 
because, tarantara, "In a few minutes, 
right over there on the grass, we will hold 
a fuck-in") past other people feeling good 
because everything was allowed, to the 
corner of the lot where several hundred 
people were confronting a line of soldiers, 
which resulted in beatings and the arrest 
of several dignitaries. Then people by 
the thousands began to climb an embank-
ment, flow out into the huge lawn before 
the front entrance of the Pentagon, and 
up the broad steps to the main plaza, 
where soldiers, trembling young M.P.'s, 
tough U.S. Marshals, and the press were 
waiting. 

Two times I saw the resistors on the 
verge of revolution, once when a marshal 
tried to haul out a more vocal protestor 
and was almost himself pulled back into 
the mob, where he well could have been 
torn apart; once when, around 4 pm, the 
crowd on the steps came to the verge of 
turning on a hopelessly outnumbered 
line of soldiers that protected a marshal 
who was smashing an unconscious 
demonstrator again and again and again 
with his club. 

Each time there was a quick, fearsome 
breaking point, and the crowd held back. 
abandoning its solidarity with the cap-
tured, content with letting a Progressive 
Labor Party man throw beer cans and 
marbles at the soldiers from four rows 
back. 

The young man who was getting so 
badly beaten was eventually tossed over 
a low wall into the arms of waiting 
marshals, and I followed them up to the 
vans. 

"What's your name? Your ~?" 
I asked. He wasn't interested in anything, 
temporarily beaten into submission; he 
and a friend were thrown into a van, one 
of the marshals coming close to strangling 
the friend for no apparent reason. 

Meanwhile-it was 5:10 in the after-
noon-a most unusual scene was taking 
place on the steps. The crowd and the 
tension had lessened a little, and the 
soldiers in the middle, between the crowds, 
had more space to point their guns, and 
a young man with flowers in his hair 
walked in front of them and stuck flowers 
into the barrels of the guns. He got away 
with it at first, and the soldiers pointing 
their guns for dear life looked impos-
sibly ridiculous with flowers coming out 
of the barrels. Other soldiers, now alert 
to the potential embarrassment, yanked 
their guns away from the threatening ftora 
with ferocious, mechanical gestures, and 
they looked even more absurd. 

To protestors driven to desperation 
by any and all form of effort to stop the 
war, this scene may have held some 
satisfaction. Perhaps it made a few 
soldiers feel very silly, but they were 
"in a whole different world," as one young 
GI who had helped defend the warmakers 
explained to me two days later during a 
misty morning encounter at Occoquan 
prison, where most of the arrested resistors 
were being held and "processed" before 
commissioners. 

This particular GI made a habit of 
calling his mother once a week, and what 
should he have found out on last night's 
call but that his brother was behind bars 
for activity at the Pentagon. 

"I figure forty per cent of the guys are 
against the war," be said, "but when you're 
in the army you're not supposed to have 
any feelings, which is why I guess I 
should stop talking to you. 

"But lots of guys figure the demon-
strators were pretty much right, though 
they didn't get it across very well; they 
could be really insulting.'' 

At 5:20 came that rush on corridor 
seven of the Pentagon, right next to the 
main entrance. A handful of people 
managed to make it through, only to 
find the inside lined with soldiers and 
MPs, and a few came boomeranging out 
the door and back into the crowd just in 
time to join their friends who were being 
cleaned off the steps by cossack-like 
marshals. 

As more soldiers came onto the scene 
and things went back under control, the 
steps leading to the main plaza or "Mall" 
in front of the Pentagon emptied, and 
except for a group off at one of the 
approaches to the left, most of the action 
took place here. 


--- Page 8 ---

81 The New Journal I November 12, 1967 

On either side of the point where the 
main steps reached the Mall were two, long 
wooden platforms on wheels. They were 
known as "low boys," and the Pentagon 
had put them there for reporters and 
camera men to stand on. In time, the 
soldiers pressed closer and closer until a 
clump of several hundred demonstrators 
were crammed together between the 
platforms. It was this group, aided by 
reinforcements that were allowed to come 
up the steps, that remained until Sunday 
night. Off to the left was a bigger area 
dotted with small bonfires, twenty or 
thiry people clustered around each, that 
gradually emptied and had been reclaimed 
by soldiers by Sunday morning. 

As night fell, folk began to burn their 
signs and leaflets to keep warm, "supply 
lines" started bringing in water and food, 
and an angry group over on the left got 
hit with tear gas, while Pentagon informa-
tion officers were telling newsmen first 
that no tear gas had been fired, and later 
that it must have been thrown by the 
demonstrators themselves, a story so out 
of time with what I and other reporters 
had seen that it almost commanded 
respect. A long line of soldiers was 
advancing around one corner of the 
Pentagon, sheathed bayonets fixed, ad-
vancing with a dancelike step and 
trampling the tearful, stray girls who tried 

to block the advance by sitting down in 
their path. 

The situation was becoming more 
unreal, the kind of thing that set some 
people to wondering about themselves and 
the whole world. ·'Who am I?" asked 
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense 
for public affairs Richard Fryklund to 
assembled newsmen inside the Pentagon 
at 8:10. Fryklund was asking questions 
to which he thought the newsmen would 
like answers. He answered that he was 
Richard Fryklund. 

"Do you know what the situation is 
immediately outside?" one reporter asked, 
adding that he was "just curious." 

Fry.Jund said he didn't but everyone was 
"welcome to go outside and look." 

The public affairs people were generally 
most efficient, as when information officer 
Dania! Z. Henkin assembled the press at 
12:45 that night to say "I just want to 
let you know that I'm still here." The 
deadline for the Sunday papers had long 
passed and since few reporters were left 
outside the marshals egged the soldiers 
toward the low boys, on the first major 
mop-up of the night. Rifle butts came 
down on people with that sickening crack-
like sound, and the resistors several rows 
back began to throw things at the soldiers, 
which made it worse for those up front; 
they were screaming in fear and anger, 
and the cry came over the loudspeaker: 
"medical person needed, medical person 
needed." A few people cried out to the 
camera men still stationed on the low boys 
to keep the lights on, it inhibited the 
marshals, but they said no, the batteries 
might wear out, they only report the news, 
and so it went. 

The troops stopped pushing a little 
around 2 o'clock. The resistors had been 
forced into a small, roundish area at the 
head of the steps near the left low boy. 
For the rest of that long, cold night and 
all of Sunday until midnight when the 
game was up, the soldiers and marshals 
engaged in a slow war of attrition, carrying 
people away one by one, without advance 
notice, fraying everyone's nerves, getting 
the left-over press mad at the demon-
strators for keeping them up and in one 
case away from the Sunday football game. 

Many of the people in that small knot of 
a few hundred believed they were some-
how effectively resisting the government, 
but they were playing at Uncle Sam's 
discretion. Still, it wasn't easy to stay there 
aU night. 

At I :30 a.m. Sunday morning, the 
marshals off to the left on the Mall still 
weren't satisfied, "I'm hoping someone's 
gonna put their head in the way when I 
bring this down," one said as he stroked 
his club. Things were going well at 1:45, 
real well, even time for fancy maneuvers. 
Every fifth man should be going out, jour 
of five should be going in, at safe guard. 
At this point a young protestor with long 
hair and beads around his neck came up 
to a marshal. 

"Can I stay here without being 
arrested?" 

"You'll be told to move," says the 
marshal slowly, like a cat eyeing a kitten. 

"Yaas, you'll be able to get out." 

"Good, you sound like a real good guy. 
One guy messed up a girl pretty bad, but 
I guess there's some bad ones in each 
group, it's no reflection on you." 

"Yaas," he says with a quiet grin, 
"yaas, you'll be able to move before 
someone latches on to you ... " 

Back at the encampment, a speaker is 
forecasting tear gas, and "we should all 
stick together because if we can stick it 
out until tomorrow morning we've won, 
we've got control, we've beaten them ... " 

At 2: 14, someone says that "you soldiers 
are always welcome to our water,'' and it 
worked both ways because several hours 
later, in the cold and just before dawn, the 
soldiers emptied their canteens on the 
mall, and the water ran down into the 
squatters. 

Far away, at the left extreme of the 
plaza, a pathetic scene was taking place. 
A Puerto Rican from California had lost 
his wallet, it had $225 in it, all the money 
he owned, and he was pleading with the 
soldiers, three of whom had leveled their 
weapons at his chest, to let him back into 
the liberated zone. He was staring tearfully 
at a Negro soldier, and he touched his 
gun in a show of respect. 

"Get your damn hands off my rifle." 

"How will I get back to California, 
mannnn? Mannnnn? ... Let me have a 
chance to look for it, I not find it I go 
back ... call the FBI, maybe they help 
me ... or something, or something. Help 
me, I help all people. Tell me why it's 
bad? 

A long pause as he stares soulfully at 
the black soldier. "Man, I don't work, 
I can't find it." 

The marshal gave an order, the three 
aimed rifles clicked. 

" Go ahead, kill me, why look at me? 
... I leave you my draft card, okay? ... 
Before I wanted to go in the army, but 
now I don't think the army so nice." 

He sat down on the ground, and the 
three rifle barrels followed him. He pressed 
his head against the Negro soldier's gun. 

"Stand back," cried the trooper and 
shoved hard on his weapon. 

The man slowly got up, starting at the 
soldiers. "You devils, you animals," he 
said, and slowly walked into the darkness. 

"He's lucky he got away," said the 
Negro soldier. "I was just about to bash 
him." 

. Meanwhile, one of the speakers at the 
main outpost was announcing that "we 
are standing here resisting the greatest 
power ever known to man, and we have 
resisted it for hours and hours and hours. 
Your humanity does not necessitate that 
we all go out like sheep .... " 

Then someone suggested that the 
soldiers were arresting them illegally, and 
that they ought to arrest the soldiers. A 
marshal stepped onto a low boy. "Hey, 
that's the big bomber," yelled a resistor, 
"the one who beat us up this afternoon. 
Hey, man, we have your picture, we're 
gonna get your ass someday." 

Another hour passed. It was very cold, 
people were leaving, and a speaker was 
saying that "it's difficult terrain out there, 
lots of army out there, it's best not to 
dribble off .... " 

Inside the press room, a couple of 
information officers were analyzing the 
rabble at the gates. The consensus was that 
they needed defumigators, and one of the 
more civic minded said he wanted "to give 
them -all a bath." 

As the clock ticked on, they covered a 
range of subjects and displayed all the 
while a tendency to immediate consensus. 
"If we could get the goddam tv to be a 
little more responsible, we could save 
half our problems," said one amidst 
general nodding. "I hear this is true of 
Newark and Detroit; the tv crews staged 
half the action. If they got somewhere and 
nothing was doing, they'd get someone to 
turn a car over and burn it." 

As for the Vietniks, "I'd like to take 
all those punks, put 'em in an airplane, give 
them a chute-let's be fair about it-and 
drop 'em over Hanoi." 

"They ought to appreciate this country," 
said a colleague. "They haven't seen any-
thing-~stern Europe, communist-
dominated countries." 

"No matter how legitimate it may be, 
they're being used." 

"There are well known communists 
in the leadership." 

Down the endless corridors of the 
Pentagon, the officer escorted two joum 
alists toward the exit for the parking lot. 
You can image what would have hap pent 
if five or ten thousand of them had got 
inside this building. We would have had 
to hunt them out like fucking rats. Woul 
have been hard, too; he had seen the 
vanguard of the charge on the doors, the 
rush toward corridor seven-It was led 
by this colored boy, man I've never seen 
such maniacs, he was yelling 'Kill'em Ki 
'em!' And he had real long hair, in ever) 
direction, like a gorilla. 

At six a.m. a cleaning machine was 
driving crazily up and down the mall, 
erasing the scourge of the resistors' 
garbage. Only 300 resistors ·were left, the 
group between the low boys. And it had 
indeed been a long night. 

"Linda!" came an angry yell at a girl 
huddled in a sleeping bag. 

"It's crumbling, people aren't putting 
up any resistance," someone whispered. 

" ... A new social democracy is cornin 
on," said the speaker, " ... let me ask 
everyone who is leaving to change their 
minds and stay ...... please stay, and 
fight the fucking paratroopers!" 

"If you want to use the speaker, use 
appropriate language!" said someone. 

"It's cold" said the speaker, "everyone 
is cold, we're tired ... " People were yellin! 
and complaining. 

The sun rose, someone read poetry, but 
when he got to the one about children 
scarred with napalm, the resistors couldn' 
stand it, they were scared of the soldiers 
who towered above them. 

" ..... residue of jelly ....... " 

"No, no, stop it." 

The soldiers bad pressed closer, and the 
marshals went through the line and d0\\
1 
the steps behind the marchers. They 
began to smash bottles with their clubs, 
kick apart the bonfires. 

''I'm so proud of you committed ..... . 
said the speaker. 

"Yeah," said a committed to me, 
"committed to a hospital, you can see 
it .... the marshals are coming in, they'tl 
all around, God, this is it." 

But it wasn't it, and soon two camera 
crews were back in the bright morning 
air. A copy of the Sunday Washington 
Post was passed around, (it underplayed 
the violence they had seen committed 
against them) and someone announced th• 
the press would have to end. A speaker ga 
up and delivered a diatribe against the 
press, but someone else challenged biro: 
"it was bad public relations," he said, 
"with the press watching"; and they alma' 
came to blows amid various cries of 
"no, no." 

"It's the marshals who are beating us," 
one girl said. "The army troops are fair~ 
decent and we even gave one a cookie." 

As the sun rose and warmth returned 
to the land, so also the press, and around 
11 o'clock the soldiers began to cart aw•1 
more resistors. "Wow, they even give us 
erotic show," said one network correspott 
dant as .he looked at a couple that had 
been momentarily abandoned by the 
soldiers, clutching one another in the 
middle of the plaza. 

" It makes me so sad I want to cry," 
he continued to a colleague, "sad each 
time I see one of them go by. These 
hippies ... you know, my son is a hippie. 

"They just don't understand what's 
happening, not that there's anything wrolll 
with what they're doing, it's just that 
they're going to be marked with it for 
the rest of their lives because tbat•s the 


--- Page 9 ---

91 The New Journal! November 12, 1967 
:, 

way society is." He had been to Vietnam, 
he hated communism, those protestors 
were lucky they were in a free country. 

Hour after hour they sat, starting a 
brief teach-in aimed at the soldiers, 
·n· listening to girls sing songs. Night falls 
t. 
again, the cold returns. The resistors are 
nt more organized now, they have more 
•t 
blankets, they are sitting in neat rows, 
ad agreements have been concluded with the 
nll General Services Administration that those 
who go to jail will be carried away gently. 
he Some would rather fight, some aren't 
d 
sure if they ought to jeopardize their jobs 
en 
by going to jail, but things are neater, 
Ki cleaner, more antiseptic. 

I went into the Pentagon at 9:15p.m. 
·ry 
to pick up some press releases, and the 
l, 
officers are watching Moms Mayberry, 
he 
little Sony televisions on their desks. 
Walking down the halls, photographs of 
Vietnam ve.terans who have received the 
:1 
Congressional Medal of Honor, out the 
tg 
front entrance. Lines of soldiers, one to 
I. 
each side made a rigid turn to allow me 
passage, the steps were brilliant in the 
floodlight. A thousand hard hats glistened 
e 
in the cold light, a lonely girl's voice 
ne 
drifted out from where the last cluster 
Hnl of resistors sat, awaiting midnight. 

Let me tell you 'bout the times I've 
had ..... 

Time goes slowly by, more songs, H ey, 
ut 
let's really hear it for the chick, says a 
young man, someone claps his hands. 

At 11, I went inside again, to watch the 
s 
news on tv, (But those there would claim 
that much of the violence was directed 
:in' against the soldiers and marshals ordered 
to stand their ground. Many were struck 
tht with rocks, beer bottles, and cans), 

gave up and went outside, where the 
)\\1 soldiers were rearranging themselves in 
;, 
complex patterns, and someone was saying 
on the megaphone, "and make sure we're 
.. ' peaceful as we get arrested, regardless of 
hose what the American press with all its dis-
down tortions says .... " The soldiers were 
with preparing to haul the remnants of the 
resistors away, one by one, despite the 
.. ' counsel of a newsman that they simply 
hose down the plaza and get the show over 
with. 

At 11: 10, several resisters pull out draft 
y'tl cards, while a nearby newscaster help-
a fully interprets their actions to his 
o audience. "I saw a number of youngsters 
d burn what they said to be their draft 
tb- Cards, but I saw one holding a dollar bill, 
gG and another his social security card." 

e At 11: 17, the forces of Jaw and order 
ro: enter into a set of extremely complex 
h maneuvers and even more complex 
,, formations, a partial map of which looks 
.irll like the Cretan labyrinth in my notebook. 
And at 11:29.17, alt. colonel who looks 
like Steve Canyon clicks on a microphone, 
and speaks these words: 

The dem-on-stra-tion in which you are 
par-tic-ipating ennnds at midnight. 
I re-peat, the demonstration .... 

is enormously cold, the Mall is bathed 
•n brilliant light, the soldiers stationed at 
od
their textbook positions. 

The ag-ru-ment signed by your leaders 
and by the General Services Administra-
tion ex-pires at that time. All persons 
who wish to leave vol-un-tar-ily can 
board busses on the Mall. Those busses 
will go to the Memorial bridge. Those 
who wish to take those busses should 
move to the West end of the sidewalk. 

There is a roar in the distance, the 
military vans parked in the neat rows sud-
ie. ~ 
start up and drive a few feet 
orward, making a passage in the 
onl labyrmtb, and presto/ busses come roaring 
arOUnd the side of the pentagon . 

.r 
Those demonstrat-ors ... 

be 
4nyon bas assumed a disapproving tone. 

..... who do NOT leave voluntarily 
by midnight will be arr-est-ed and taken 
to a fed-eral de-tent-ion center. A.ull 
dem-on-stra-tors are urged to abide by 
the permit. 

I say to you again, ..... 

And he goes through the talk again. Thirty 
or so resistors chose the busses; haggard, 
shaggy they crossed through the forces 
of law and order, immigrants whose num-
ber had been called at Ellis Island. It 
seems to get colder every minute. The 
light begins to hurt my eyes and my head 
is coming apart from 60-odd hours of 
wakefulness. 

. ..... federal detention center. We 
urge demonstrators to abide by the , .. 

A reporter and a helmeted officer 
recognize one another, they clasp hands. 
They are old friends from Saigon. "Got 
back in time to ma.ke Detroit," says the 
milit 'ry man. 

"Hey, I was in Detroit too," enthuses 
the reporter. 

"CPM 1 to Baler 19," says a soldier to 
his walkie-talkie. 

"Midnight," cries Steve Canyon. The 
demonstrators, one by one, are carried 
from the Mall toward the waiting vans, 
put in, the doors close, and the vans drive 
away. 

The camera men turn the lights on and 
film the dense garbage that marks the 
now freed but once liberated zone, a few 
soldiers walk around in it, kicking at this 
and that. 


**Title: A Profession of History**
**Author: Staughton Lynd**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Why history? seems to me an altogether 
fitting and proper question. Those who 
profess a religious faith recognize that 
their profession becomes dead unless it is 
renewed by frequent rediscovery of its 
reason for being. Accordingly, the 
religious professor may quest from a 
first to a second, from a second to a third 
profession of religious faith during a 
lifetime's experience of ultimate things. 
The man committed to a craft should 
ask no less of himself. He should 
frequently inquire what task it was that 
he chose to perform with this particular 
set of tools, and he should be prepared 
to change tools if the task's requirements 
seem to have changed. 

I decided to become a historian when I 
was twenty-nine. I had "taken" (an odd 
word) no more than two or three semesters 
of history as an undergraduate. But 
during a checkered and prolonged 
adolescence in which I did graduate work 
in city planning, served as a non-
combatant conscientious objector in the 
United States Army, milked cows and 
made children's toys in a utopian com-
munity, and organized site tenants on 
New York's Lower East Side, I carried 
about with me two books on history: 
The Historian's Craft by Marc Bloch and 
The Idea of History by R. G. Collingwood. 
I liked these books. Bloch's appealed 
to me because he wrote it as a member 
of the French Resistance, without the 
aid of books and papers, shortly before 
his death at the hands of the Nazis, and 
because he conveyed a sense of history as 
a craft: something which had its own 
tools, which demanded, so to speak, a feel 
for cloth and leather before one could 
do it well, a discipline to which a man 
might apprentice himself. 

History as described by Bloch appeared 
to be controlled by its opaque, objective 
events and thus to be Jess prone to 
arbitrary manipulation and subjective 
whim than other social science disciplines. 
The Idea of History was attractive for 
the opposite reason. It demythologized 
the aura surrounding the historical pro-
fession by insisting that in the last analysis 
all a man's mind could know of the past 
was the minds of other men, so that 
"history" in fact amounted to rethinking 
a portion of what human beings had 
thought before. "Progress," then, was 
defined by Collingwood as action preced-
ing from thought which had experienced 
the best of previous thought. 

Taken together the two books seemed 
to me the embodiment of intellectual 
elegance; the intelJectual activity they 
analyzed appeared solid, and serviceable 
to strivings toward a better world which 
mattered very much to me. 

When I "went in" to history I began 
with Charles Beard's interpretation of the 
United States Constitution. I now think 
there were two reasons for this choice, 
somewhat in tension with each other. 
At the time, I explained by choice of 
subject matter on the ground that Beard's 
was the most important attempt to date 
at an economic interpretation of American 
history, and that I was enough of a Marxist 
STAUGHTON LYND is an assistant 
professot of history at Yale. He was direc-
tor of the Mississippi Freedom Schools 
in the summer of 1964, and he is currently 
on leave of absense in Chicago, where he 
is seeking to translate the educational 
techniques of the '64 Summer to the 
northern ghetto, and teaching at Chicago 
State University. 
to find this a logical point of departure. 
I began my work as a historian by 
seeking a local microcosm in which to 
test the thesis of Beard's Economic 
Interpretation Of The United States 
Constitution. I have mixed feelings about 
it now. On the one band it still make'l 
sense to me that, like any other scientist, 
the historian should formulate hypotheses 
and then test them against a restricted 
range of data, such as what happened in 
one area or in one man's life. On the 
other hand I am now more conscious 
that I selected a range of data which 
I could be pretty certain would sub-
stantiate the thesis I hoped was true. 

I studied opposition to the United States 
Constitution in Dutchess County, New 
York, because Dutchess County had a 
history of landlord-tenant conflict very 
likely to be connected with how groups 
aligned themsel\'es for or against ratifica-
tion of the Constitution. 

The bias involved in my selection of 
Dutchess County did not necessarily 
invalidate my findings, but it raised serious 
question as to their generalizability. I 
believe this is how bias characteristically 
operates in the work of other historians, 
too: not in deliberate mishandling of 
evidence, but in selection of research 
design. 

The second reason I began with Beard 
became clear to me only gradually. 
Beard's work dealt with the American 
Revolution and its overall meaning. 
Implicitly and to a certain extent ex-
plicitly, Beard asked: were the Founding 
Fathers activated by abstract ideas and 
a devotion to public welfare, or were they 
also motivated by personal economic 
interests? If the latter alternative was 
overstated, might it not still be true (as 
Beard sometimes more sophisticatedly put 
it) that their view of the public welfare 
was conditioned by the experience of a 
governing class in which individual 
Fathers participated by virtue of their 
birth or wealth? These questions were 
important to me because, as one con-
siderably alienated from America's 
present, I wanted to know if there were 
men in the American past in whom I 
could believe. 

This is the kind of feeling historians 
are not supposed to have. Not only did I 
have it, however; as time went on it in-
creasingly seemed to me more honest to 
confront my feeling squarely for what 
it was, rather than pursue it in the guise of 
research about, say, the curious dis-
crepancy between the portraits of the 
revolutionary artisan in the books of Carl 
Becker and Charles Beard. 

After graduate school I taught for three 
years in a Negro women's college in 
Atlanta, Georgia. Historians are not 
supposed to be influenced by their per-
sonal experiences, but I was, profoundly. 
Here were students with a greater stake 
than I in knowing-not just entertaining 
an interpretation, but knowing-whether 
the signers of the Declaration were 
idealists who failed to carry out their full 
program or hypocritical racists who 
ki11ed Indians and bred Negroes while 
declaring that all men are equal. No doubt 
both answers were "too simple" and the 
truth was a more complicated third thing. 
But what was the truth? I did not know 
because I had not taken that question with 
sufficient seriousness to let it guide my 
own research. Incredibly, my research, 
like that of Beard, Becker and other 
Progressive historians, had tacitly assumed 
that white artisans and tenant farmers 
were the most exploited Americans of 
the late eighteenth century, overlooking 
the one-fifth of the nation which was in 
chains. 

For my Negro students it was almost 
as important to know the true character 
of their collective past as to be at ease 
with their personal histories. One brilliant 
girl described to me the moment when, 
looking at the photographs in a collection 
of slave narratives, she realized, "These 
were my forefathers." After I conven-
tionally began a survey course in 
American history with the Pilgrims, an-
other excellent student, who bad the 
courage to expose her personal past by 
inviting my family to her sharecropper 
father's home at Christmas, was also 
brave enough to ask me, "Why do you 
teach about your ancestors and not mine?" 

Next year I began the course with the 
slave ships, only to bear from a third 
student, "You are teaching me a special 
history rather than treating me like every· 
one else." 

Willy-nilly I was functioriing as 
therapist as well as historian; in reporting 
the past turned, whether I wished to or 
not, into a medium for the discovery of 
personal identity. 

At issue was not whether history, like a 
lump of dough, can be made into any 
shape one pleases. The question was rather 
that if history, like a mountain, can be 
viewed from many different standpoints, 
all equaJiy "objective," perhaps it makes 
sense to approach it from the direction 
that has most personal meaning to the 
observer. 

Meantime, I was beginning to chafe at 
the role of observer, no matter bow 
defined. Teaching in the midst of the 
civil rights movement brought home the 
aphorism (here slightly rephrased) of 
Marx's Theses on Feuerbach: "The his-
torians have interpreted the world; the 
thing, however, is to change it." 


Thus I arrived at a conception of history 
which has much in common with that of 
the eighteenth century. Just as Jefferson 
found virtues to emulate in Plutarch and 
mistakes to be avoided in the story of 
republican Rome's decline, so I would 
have the young person of our own time 
(supposing history to interest him at all) 
encounter Jefferson (or Malcolm X) with 
the question, What can I learn about bow 
to live? 

In the nineteenth century this approach 
to history came to be condemned as 
moralistic. History, Ranke and his fol-
lowers maintained, was not a lamp of 
experience to light the path ahead but a 
simple record of "bow it really happened." 
Professional historians accepted Ranke's 
attitude as the definition of objectivity. 
But as Carl Becker demonstrated in 
his Declaration Of Independence, the 
creed of wie es eigentlich gewesen pre-
supposed a belief that history "just as it 
happened" and "the existing social order" 
were "the progressive realization of God's 
purpose." The Rankian historian bad no 
need to moralize because what history had 
achieved already was satisfactory to him. 
In Becker's paraphrase, "history is God's 
work, which we must submit to, but which 
we may seek to understand in order that 
we may submit to it intelligently." This 
was objectivity only in the sense that it 
made man an object of history rather 
than a maker of it. 

It would oversimplify, of course, to 
suggest that radicals draw lessons from 
history whereas conservatives are content 
to narrate it. Among the lessons drawn 
from history by the Founding Fathers 
~ere .that economic equality was impos-
Sible 10 a populous society, that democracy 
was weakened by the growth of com-
merce, and that, since power followed 


property, it would be chimerical to attempt 
to destroy chattel slavery by political 
means. These were conservative lessons 
inasmuch as they inclined the leaders of 
the Revolution to live with inequities they 
might otherwise have protested. 

Moreover, the most influential Rankian 
of the nineteenth century was none other 
than Karl Marx. He too, like Hegel and 
Ranke, believed that ethical goals need 
not be imposed on history since they were 
immanent in it. He too, despite a youthful 
emphasis on man as historical creator, 
believed that·"freedom is the recognition 
of necessity." 

Accordingly, for someone like myself 
who was more and more committed to 
the thesis that the professor of history 
should also be an historical protagonist, 
a complex confrontation with Marxist 
economic determinism was inevitable. 
I do not pretend to be on the other side of 
this problem, certainly one of the major 
intellectual challenges of our time. But 
I have a few tentative conclusions. 

Two recent neo-Marxist statements 
on the problem of historical determinism 
and man's freedom to choose are What 
Is History? by E. H. Carr and In Search 
Of A Method by Jean-Paul Sartre. Let me 
attempt to close in on the problem by 
following the logic of these two authors. 

Carr has been much influenced by 
Collingwood, whom be describes as "the 
only British thinker in the present century 
who bas made a serious contribution to 
the philosophy of history." Carr's book 
includes such Collingwood-like observa-
tions as the following: 

The nineteenth century was, 
for the intellectuals of Western 
Europe, a comfortable period 
exuding confidence and optim-
ism. The facts were on the whole 
satisfactory; and the inclination 
to ask and answer awkward 
questions about them was cor-
respondingly weak. Ranke 
piously believed that divine 
providence would take care of 
the meaning of history if he took 
care of the facts . . . . 

And again: 

The nineteenth-century fetishism 
of facts was completed and 
justified by a fetishism of docu-
ments .... But ... no document 
can tell us more than what the 
author of the document thought 
- what he thought had hap-
pened, what he thought ought 
to happen or would happen, or 
perhaps only what he wanted 
others to think he thought, or 
even only what he himself 
thought he thought. 

Nevertheless, Carr fi.nds his way back 
from these iconoclasms not only to a 
rather conventional view of the historian's 
craft but also to an orthodox Rankian-
Marxist position that ethical judgments of 
historical events are irrelevant because 
the events themselves are determined. He 
does so by means of a most unsatisfactory 
argument. In the present moment, Carr 
appears to concede, real choice exists 
and ethical criteria are therefore pertinent. 
However, once an event has occurred it 
should be considered inevitably deter-
mined, and one who fails so to consider 
it must be suspected of wishing it had 
happened otherwise. As Carr puts the 
matter: 

... plenty of people, who have 
suffered directly or vicariously 
from the results of the Bolshevik 
victory, or still fear its remoter 
consequences, desire to register 
their protest against it; and this 
takes the form, when they read 
history, of letting their imagina-
tion run riot on all the more 
agreeable things that might have 
happened, and of being in-
dignant with the historian who 
goes on quietly with his job of 
explaining what did happen and 
why their agreeable wish-dreams 
remain unfulfilled. The trouble 
about contemporary ·history is 
"that people remember the time 
when all the options were still 
open [my italics], and find it 
difficult to adopt the attitude of 
the historian, from whom they 
have been closed by the fait 
accompli. 

With this comment Carr seeks to dispose 
of what he calls the "red herring" problem 
of historical inevitability. But if in fact I 
have the freedom to act one way or 
another, how can I turn around and 
assert, the moment after I have acted, that 
I bad to act the way I did? To borrow for 
a moment Carr's own ad hominem ap-
proach, I am inclined to think that his 
position is that of the perennial observer, 
who has never devoted his energies to 
making his "wish-dreams" real. It cannot 
be a resting-place for someone called to 
making history as well as writing it. 

Sartre's argument, if I understand it 
correctly, is similar. Beginning with the 
assertion that the abstract and schematic 
character of twentieth-century Marxism 
made necessary the creation of existen-
tialism if real human experience were to 
be grasped in its concreteness, Sartre 
concludes that as a richer Marxism, 
faithful to Marx's own complexity, 
develops, existentialism will wither away. 

The logic of a Carr or Sartre appears 
to me to disintegrate in the face of the 
twentieth century practice of revolution-
ary Marxists themselves. Every successful 
Marxist revolutionary has made his bid 
for power in defiance of what passed in his 
day for the "laws of historical develop-
ment." The Russian Mensheviks were 
right in contending that decades of 
industrial development were necessary 
before the Russian proletariat would be 
large enough to make such a revolution 
as Marx predicted; but Lenin led the 
Russian Revolution regardless. The 
supremacy of willpower and endurance-
the so-called subjective factor-to all 
environmental obstacles was so obviously 
the key factor in the Chinese Revolution 
that it has become the defining char-
acteristic of "the thought of Mao Tse-
tung." And would any one seriously 
argue that Fidel Castro's defiant handful 
in a fishing-boat was the inevitable out-
come of historical forces? 

The conception of historical causation 
by Marx (or at least by the later Marx) 
fo1lowed closely Adam Smith's model of 
the working of the capitalist market. Like 
the laissez-faire entrepreneur, so the 
actor in the Marxist historical drama 
could not correctly anticipate the outcome 
of his actions, for that outcome was the 
unplanned result of each actor's false 
anticipations. But the act of revolution is 
precisely the ability to take purposeful 
action with confidence that intended 
consequences can be achieved. The 
revolutionary transforms not only an 
oppressive society but the laws of 
development of that oppressive society. 

Despite invocation of man's future 
passage from the realm of necessity to 
the realm of freedom, Marx assigned this 
happening to the period after a revolu-
tionary seizure of power and hence did not 
fully appreciate the fact that any revolu-
tion-at least as it appears to those who 
take part in it-requires a decision by 
individual human beings that they begin to 
determine their own destinies at whatever 
cost. 

"At least as it appears to those who take 
part in it" is the heart of the matter. I 
have been trying to show that professional 
historians, whether Marxist or not, tend 
to view history from the sidelines, to 
give too little weight to that ethical 
dimension which is critical only for the 
man who must make decisions, to regard 
as historically determined what is merely 
historically past, and in sum, to do 
violence to the sense of reality of the 
historical. actor in the present moment. 

I hope I will not be misunderstood to 
believe that there are no "historical 
forces," that historical causation does not 
exist, that any one can do anything he 
wants in history at any time. The point, 
rather, is that whereas to Marx or Sartre 
human energy and striving are, as it were, 
at the service of the movement of 
impersonal historical forces, for the man 
trying to make history such forces are 
merely matters he must take into account 
in attempting to achieve his self-
determined g9als. The psychotherapist 
Victor Frankl, who himself lived through 
the concentration camps, reminds us that 
in that most oppressive of situations men 
still retained a significant ability to decide 
what would happen to them. To say the 
same thing in another way, men can be 
beasts or brothers at any level of techno-
logical development. 


How would the work of the historian be 
different if man's existential freedom to 
choose became that work's point of 
departure? 

The following are some provisional 
answers. 

1. Historians ordinarily assume that 
history can better be written about 
events at some distance in the past than 
about present happenings. No doubt this 
generalization holds good for certain 
kinds of events, sucl~ as diplomatic events, 
the sources for which tend to be kept 
secret until after the passage of many 
years. But does it apply, for example, to 
the history of the common man? 

I think not. Anyone wishing to write the 
history of the post-World War II civil 
rights movement could undoubtedly write 
it better now than five years from now, 
and better five years from now than in 
1990. The reason is that the "primary 
sources" for these events are, by and large, 
neither written nor secret but rather the 
memories of individual living persons 
which will become less accurate and 
accessible as time goes on. 

History as a chronicling of the present 
tends to be considered mere journalism, a 
debasement of what proper history should 
be, because the passage of time is 
assumed to give "perspective." Without 
wholly discounting this argument, it 
nevertheless seems to me to depend too 
much on the assumption that there is a 
single causal pattern underlying events-
a skeleton beneath the living tissue-
which will appear stark and clear in 
retrospective view. 

The historian's first duty, it seems to me, 
is the sensitive chronicling in d?pth of the 
important events of his own lifetime. 

2. Whether writing about the recent or 
distant past, the historian suggests to the 
protagonist of the present new alterna-
tives for action. Much as, with or without 
the help of therapists, all of us occasionally 
look back to our individual pasts to find 
strength for new beginnings, so with or 
without the help of historians Americans 
who wish to change their present society 
have used the past as a source for for-
gotten alternatives. The past serves us as a 
means toward that "frequent recurrence to 
fundamental principles" which the 
Virginia Bill of Rights advised. 


The difference between this use of his-
tory and that which follows from a tradi-
tional emphasis on causation may be 
illustrated with reference to tbe war in 
Vietnam. The entire American intellectual 
community has devoted itself, to an extent 
which must be without precedent, to 
becoming amateur historians of this 
conflict. Nevertheless, after all the books 
and teach-ins the simple question of 
"Why Vietnam?" remains almost as 
obscure as in February 1965. 

An economic explanation of American 
policy is difficult to demonstrate because 
American investment in Southeast Asia 
is relatively slight; but no other coherent 
hypothesis appears to have been offered. 
As to the motivation of "the other side," 
no doubt documents presently unavailable 
would help somewhat. Yet to whatever 
extent Wilfred Burchett is right in his 
ascription of the origins of the present 
war to a series of spontaneous local 
outbreaks in 1957-1959, one suspects that 
the participants themselves might be hard 
put to provide a definitive causal analysis 
of the interaction of local grievances, 
National Liberation Front leadership, and 
encouragement from Hanoi. 

Does this mean that the historian has 
nothing to offer in Vietnam? or even, in 
view of the misuse of the Munich analogy 
by the American government, that a 
solution might more readily be found if 
the habit of historical argument could 
be prescribed? I think not. Where the 
historian could be helpful, in my opinion, 
is not by deeper but still inconclusive 
research into the past, but by projecting 
alternative scenarios for the future. 

Considerable experience is available as 
to the behavior of revolutionary nationalist 
movements under varying environmental 
pressures. Without presuming to predict 
the future, historians might help American 
policy-makers to be more flexible and 
imaginative by, so to speak, prophesying 
a variety of outcomes to the present 
bloodbath. (Howard Zion's Vietnam: The 
Logic of Withdrawal exemplifies the use 
of history I have in mind.) 

Thus a second, presently unfamiliar task 
for the historian would be the projection 
of alternative futures on the basis of the 
richness of the experience of the past. 

I can delineate the tasks I am recom-
mending to historians more sharply by 
exemplifying their opposites. Here again, 
I draw negative examples from radical 
historians so as to make it clear that the 
distinctions I propose are not those where-
by radicals have traditionally defined 
themselves. 

Some time ago a student of my 
acquaintance, a member of Students for 
a Democratic Society, asked me whether 
I thought he should do graduate work 
in history. I said I did not know and 
suggested that John write to several of 
the young radical historians. He did so, 
mentioning in his letter to each that I 
had told him there were others in the field 
of American history who were much more 
optimistic than I about "carving out a 
radical approach to the field that does not 
get lost in the usual hair-splitting and 
inconclusiveness to which the profession 
is prone." 

One of John's answers was from a 
brilliant young scholar whose particular 
interest is the history of the inarticulate, as 
in the work of Albert Sobeul, George 
Rude, and E. P. Thompson abroad. His 
letter began: 

I think we know about as 
much about the role of the 
common man in American his-
tory as we would know about 
Watts if the McCone Com-
mission were our only source. 
... History has been written by 
elitists who assumed that when 
the common man acted as be did, 
he did so for irrational reasons, 
or because he was manipulated 
in some way. Much of the excite-
ment of the field to me is that all 
kinds of good things might have 
happened that we don't know 
anything about because of the 
distortions of history as it has 
been written. 

My own quarrel with this argument is 
not with its contention that history has 
been distorted but with its hope that the 
truth can be restored. Let the reader con-
sider any popular movement of our own 
day in which he has participated. For 
instance, take the Mississippi Summer 
Project of 1964. Half a dozen good books 
have already been written about it, one 
a collection of letters by student volun-
teers, a second narrating in detail a single 
volunteer's experience, a third in large 
part composed of documentary appen-
dices. In addition, the event was 
exhaustively "covered" by press and 
television. But do any of us who took 
part in that adventure seriously imagine 
that anything more than fragments of it 
will ever be set down in communicable 
form? Less than three years after the event, 
who now knows where the idea for a 
Freedom Democratic Party came from 
or what really happened at the Democratic 
Party convention at Atlantic City? 

Considerations such as these as to the 
inevitable inadequacies of contemporary 
chronicling suggest skepticism about the 
possibility of recovering "the history" of 
popular movements in the past. A few 
handbills is fortunate, perhaps some 
police records, notices of meetings from 
contemporary newspapers, the gossip of 
upper-class letter-writers, very likely 
fragmentary tax and election records: 
is it not these we rely on to reconstruct 
what happened, and are they not infinitely 
less adequate than the documentary 
record so inadequate in the case of more 
recent movements? I know from experi-
ence the temptation to fill in the gaps with 
personal "wish-dreams," and to present 
the result with a spurious air of finality. 

John received a second letter from 
another outstanding young radical 
scholar, who said in part: 

I probably disagree with Lynd 
as to what we can do. Politically, 
neither love nor violence wilt 
help us much, because we are 
beyond politics in the sense that 
this is a functionally totalitarian 
country with a liberal rhetoric, 
and reason and exemplary 
Christian behavior will not alter 
the politics of those in power. 
[But] in purely intellectual 
terms, radicals have much to do 
and it seems to me that they can 
define and analyze the nature of 
the beast we confront on a 
much higher level of sophistica-
tion and precision than we have 
up to now. 

Is this not quibbling while Rome burns? 
Is it a satisfactory definition of the 
scholar's task that he is able to say "I told 
you so" amid the ruins? Should we be 
content with measuring the dimensions of 
our prison instead of chipping away, 
however inadequately, against the bars? 


What, then, should be the historian's craft 
and the idea of history? 

I have made the assumption that what 
distinguishes the historian from other 
social scientists is not that he writes about 
the past, but that he considers things in 
process of development. "History" and 
"sociology" are not concerned with 
different objects; they are different ways of 
looking at the same object. Hence the 
historian need not be embarrased if he 
concerns himself more with the present 
and future than with the past. 

I have also made the assumption that 
the historian's business with the future is 
not to predict but to envision, to say (as 
Howard Zinn has put it) not what will be 
but what can be. The past is ransacked 
not for its own sake, but as a source of 
alternative models of what the future 
might become. 

Implicit in my discussion has been a 
third idea, that "writing history" does 
not necessarily involve "being an 
historian": in other words, that chronicling 
and envisioning are functions which might 
be as well or better done by many persons 
with part of their time rather than full-
time by a few. He who acts as well as 
watches may acquire kinds of knowledge 
unavailable to him who watches only. 
(That the converse is also true is, of 
course, a commonplace.) 

To these fundamental delimitations of 
the historian's role I should like to add 
two major qualifications. 

Human beings, at least those born into 
Judaeo-Christian cultures, appear to 
peed to formulate a collective past. 
Presumably, it will always be mainly the 
job of the historian to respond respon-
sibly to this need, in a way that does not do 
violence either to the facts of the past or 
to the human beings of the present. 

Despite the alleged anti-historicism of the 
New Left, the need for a collective past 
is felt with particular keenness today by 
young people. Many rebellious young 
Americans have profoundly mixed feelings 
when they confront our country's history. 
On the one hand, they feel shame and 
distrust toward Founding Fathers who 
tolerated slavery, exterminated Indians, 
and in all their proceedings were disturb-
ingly insensitive to values and life-styles 
other than their own. On the other hand, 
there is a diffuse sense that the rhetoric 
of the Revolution and the Civil War spoke 
then and now to hopes widespread among 
mankind. Thus in November 1965 Carl 
Oglesby. then president of Students for 
a Democratic Society, asked an antiwar 
demonstration gathered at the Washington 
Monument what Thomas Jefferson or 
Thomas Paine would say to President 
Johnson and McGeorge Bundy about the 
war in Vietnam. Thus in August 1966, 
when the House Un-American Activities 
Committee subpoenaed antiwar activists, 
the head of the Free University of New 
York issued a statement invoking the 
Green Mountain Boys and the chairman 
of the Berkeley Vietnam Day Committee 
appeared in the bearing chamber in the 
uniform of an officer of George Washing-
ton's Army. 

The professor of history is among other 
things the custodian of such memories 
and dreams. 

My seoond qualification is that in a 
macrocosmic sense I believe Marxism is 
correct in its understanding of where 
humanity has been and is going. Think 
of it as a backdrop to the stage on which 
historical protagonists play their· self-
determined parts. It is nonetheless an 
essential element in the drama. The 
historian who does not grasp the fact 
that mankind, whatever else it is doin& 
is making an agonized transition from 
societies based on private property to 
societies which are not, is in my view om 
of touch with what is happening in the 
second half of the twentieth century. I 
hasten to add that these new societies mr 
not be more humane than those they 
replace. StiU, the interesting question of 
our time will appear to future historians 
as that one--namely, is a humane social 
ism possible?-rather than that which 
presently preoccupies the American 
psyche, will capitalism or socialism pre-
vail? And, from where I stand, this is 
ground for hope. 



**Letters**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
an 
:t 
in g. 
rl 
13 1 The New Journal I November 12, 1967 
Letters 
(Letters shotdd be addressed to the Editors, 
The New Journal, 3432 Yale Station, 
New H aven 06520.) 
~~~ Graduate School 
e 
. I 
To the Editors: 
What Michael Lerner apparently forgets 
m~ in his essay ("Death at an Early Age: 
of 
aru 
!Cia! 
ch 
s 
Report from the Graduate School," 
October 29) is that. a graduate education, 
no matter what other goals it may have, 
is designed primarily to give professional 
competence in a scholarly discipline. 
It is therefore by definition "academic." 
It is also at times tedious. But if a student 
finds the materials of scholarship "special-
ized irrelevancies,'' this may not be a 
sign so much that they are irrelevant 
(many people do not think they are) as 
that the student might do well to look for 
a new profession. 

I agree with Mr. Lerner's assessment 
of his own essay when be writes, "One 
person carrying a graduate load cannot 
make a good survey of what is wrong and 
what changes should be made." But then 
what is Mr. Lerner doing for us? The 
answer is interesting, I think. There is an 
excess and disorder in his essay that makes 
what might have been an intelligent 
critique seem more like a frustrated com-
plaint. Instead of a coherent survey, we 
have what looks more like a catalogue of 
grievances. True, many of the criticisms 
in this essay desperately need to be made 
and acted on. But Mr. Lerner fails to see 
that our work in the Graduate School is 
not necessarily the same thing as our life 
in New Haven, and he makes the mistake 
of foisting the dissatisfactions (not to 
say horrors) of the latter on the former. 

As a graduate student, I think that with 
a little wit it is possible to postpone an 
early death-at least until middle age. 
Gerald Allen 
Graduate student in English 

I wish that Michael Lerner's "Death at an 
Early Age" might bring the Graduate 
School back to life. I wish that the call to 
work together, to organize across depart-
mental lines and effect real reform might 
be achieved. I wish the dead could be 
roused so easily. 

But isn't graduate scbool our just fate? 
Ever since we were dragged into our 
first school room we have added to our 
reservoir of arbitrary facts. We have 
"made progress," each year advancing 
to the next grade with more competence 
!'ecause we were more specialized in our 
tnterest and hence more sure of ourselves. 
Now that we have grown up absurd, is 
there any hope that further academic 
work will be any less absurd? 

Higher education will not be any better 
until it becomes a truly worthwhile intel-
lectual experience. We must break down 
barriers between departments and with.in 
departments before we can communicate 
With each other. We must study relevancies 
before we will have anything to say to 
each other. For the moment, Mr. Lerner 
has written the appropriate epitaph for 
the srad school: "It's merely academic!' 
Howard Gillette Jr. 
Graduate student, American Studies 

'Tis Pity
**Author: Jonathan B. Conant**

~· Giamatti comes close to the truth in 
has analysis (October 29) of 'Tis Pity She's 
• Whore when he says that the "focus was 
blurred throughout." The production was, 
I think, rather bad because of this "blurred 
focus", and there were two reasons for it. 

The first is easy, and is to be inferred 
from Mr. Giamatti's article: Lydia Fisher 
is quite good as Hippolita, doing well 
things which she should never have been 
asked to do-dying on that precipitous 
platform being the most outrageous. But 
what of the so-called "nucleus" of profes-
sional actors? The most charitable view 
is that their presumed talent is obscured 
by the inept directing. I did not in any 
case feel that the caliber of the acting was 
any higher than it ever has been in Drama 
School productions. The School has 
always had brilliant technicians and dull 
actors, in general. But when the students 
seem to be as good as their professional 
mentors, what defense is there for the new 
structure of Mr. Brustein's "conserva-
tory"? All this by way of extension on 
Mr. Giamatti's commentary. 

The second reason for the lack of focus 
is far more central. In the program we 
are asked, in effect, to come and watch the 
new Drama School play a leading role in 
the advancement of theatrical experi-
mentation. The most annoying char-
acteristic of 'Tis Pity is precisely the 
attempt at experimentation. But was 
there really anything on the stage that we 
can call new and at the same time im-
portant? Are any new steps taken? Was 
( 
.. 
the last bloody scene, for example, any 
different from any other portrayal of a 
last bloody scene? It may seem a small 
matter, but the staging of such a scene is 
most difficult. Its only purpose is to clear 
the stage of actors so the play can end. 
Mr. Haigh does nothing new here. He 
seems to believe that the tragedy of the 
play is all this death on the stage, and he 
gives us every dull and agonizing minute 
of it. Surely here is a place for experimen-
tation. 

But he relies on the superficialities of 
scenery, light, and costumes. The stage 
may look striking, but it bas very little real 
acting area. This fact, combined with Mr. 
Haigh's lack of imagination in placing 
his actors, makes for a bad physical 
experience. The light is full of pretty 
colors, to be sure, but it is inadequate for 
illumination in many scenes-there is a 
dark pocket in the dead center of the 
stage, under the overhang; Giovanni 
delivers one of his later speeches from a 
pointed and precarious box, stage-right, in 
utter darkness, when a move of two feet 
would put him in light; and all of the 
entrances and exits, except those through 
the central areaway, are impeded by steep 
inclines and are necessarily cumbersome. 

Finally, the costumes. Period dress has a 
kind of magnitude which this play needs 
very badly, and it adds verisimilitude-a 
necessary ingredient if the viewer is .to 
extrapolate from the play into his own 
times. This extrapolation is supposed to 
be the reason for the "timeless" costumes. 
In the first place, they are not timeless: 
they pander to a current fad, most espe-
cially in the masque, which seems to be 
"happening" for its own sake, and not to 
further the cause of the play. Secondly, 
they are funny and, being funny, distract-
ing. Thirdly, they are in no way justified 
by the production. If the words are to be 
obscured they must be replaced by some-
thing else which carries the message. 

These superficial "experiments" do not 
do this. 

In fact, this experimentation, contribut-
ing nothing to the play except irrelevant 
visual interest, and detracting seriously 
from a necessary attention to the words, 
explains Mr. Giamatti's perception of a 
blurred focus. Behind all of the finery there 
is really no play at all. I wonder if this is 
Mr. Brustein's understanding of experi-
mentation? 
Jonathan B. Conant 
Graduate student, German 

**Chamber Players of the New Haven Symphony**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 14**

Musial Director 
FRANK BRIEFF 
1967-1968 Season 
Series of Three Concerts 
Sprague Hall 4 P.M. 
Nov. 19, Jan. 7, March 3 
1st CONCERT, NOV. 19. MUSIC FOR SEVEN 
SEPTET, STRAWINSKY (1953) 
violin, viola, cello, clarinet, horn, bassoon 
SEPTET FOR WIND INSTRUMENTS, HINDEMITH (1948) 
flute, clarinet, trumpet, saxophone, cello, percussion 
FACADE, WALTON (1922) 
GUEST ARTIST, MILDRED DUNNOCK, NARRATOR 
2nd CONCERT, JAN. 7 
CONCERT EN SEXTOUR, RAMEAU 
SEXTET IN B-FLAT, OP. 18, BRAHMS 
OCTET, MENDELSSOHN 
3rd CONCERT, MARCH 3 
SONATA FOR STRINGS, NO. 4. ROSSINI 
CANTATA "SULLE SPONDE DEL TEBRO", SCARLAITI 
CONCERTO FOR BASS, DI1TERSDORF 
CANTATA NO. 51, ''JAUCHZET GO'IT', BACH 
GUEST ARTIST, HELEN BOATWRIGHT, SOPRANO 
Series of 3 Concerts, $13, $8, $4 
New Haven Symphony Office, 254 College St., 776-1444 
Name 
.. ··············································································· .......... . 
Address 
.... ································ ............................................................. . 
Phone 
············· ..................... .. ················ ·········································· 
Please Send 
........... Seats at ... .................................. Ea. 
Orchestra 0 
Balcony 0 
Series of 3 Concerts $13, $8, $4 
Please make checks payable to New Haven Symphony Orchestra, and mail co 2 54 
College St., New Haven, Room 412. 

(continued from page 2) 
of music theory, who serves as assistant 
conductor of the orchestra, conducted, 
attd Bruce Myers, a Yale junior, played 
the solo part. Both clearly knew what they 
were doing. The second movement was 
especially effective; this movement is 
extremely simple in outline and gives 
neither the soloist nor the orchestra any 
place to hide their inadequacies. The 
performance was consistently clean, clear 
and beautiful and showed both careful 
preparation and sound musical insight. 

It's a shame the concert was so poorly 
attended. Of course the Whiffenpoofs were 
singing that night; as this reporter entered 
Sprague Hall huge crowds of people 
(most-the parents of "Ppents" weekend) 
were moving down College Street toward 
Woolsey Hall. Even so, the orchestra 
should have been able to attract a larger 
audience than the hundred-or-so people 
who showed up. The orchestra's difficulty 
in competing with the Whiffenpoofs is 
probably symbolic, for in its three years 
of existence, the orchestra bas not yet 
managed to become a Yale institution. 

Part of the problem seems to be a lack 
of the sort of instant nostalgia on which 
the singing groups can capitalize, and 
part seems to stem from the presence of an 
active Music School at Yale. Yale's 
musical life must be as intense as that of 
any school in the country; the variety of 
excellent free concerts sponsored directly 
or indirectly by the Music School is 
amazing. 

Nevertheless, the Yale Symphony really 
fills a need in the Yale community. lllf 
because Yale has such a great wealth ct 
professional and semi-professional m 
amateur music often bas a great deal 
trouble getting off the ground. Yale's 
recent changes in admissions policy set 
to have created an especially impressive 
body of undergraduate musicians. Un 
the Yale Symphony was organized 
undergraduate musical life at Yale was 
strictly ad hoc affair. The orchestra, in 
addition to providing performing 
experience for its members, has rapidly 
become a sort of central clearing hoUSt 
for undergraduate classical music and 
has increasingly tended to spawn tern 
rary or semi-permanent chamber music 
groups and chamber orchestras. It bas 
provided some of the better undergrad 
soloists with a chance to play concertos 
with a real orchestra. 

This is not to say that the orchestra 
strictly an undergraduate organization. 
At its first concerts in 1965-66 substan 
numbers of Music School students bel 
out by playing with the orchestra, and 
although since then the orchestra has 
more and more been able to rely on a 
dependable body of undergraduate 
musicians, many individual members of 
the Music School, both faculty and 
students, have maintained a lively 
interest in the orchestra. Beyond this d 
orchestra has sought instrumentalists, 
especially string players, who are stude1 
in the graduate and professional scbod 
outside the M usic School. 

Most of the orchestra's problems, thl 
seem to depend for their solutions on 

New Haven's Top 'Art' Theatres 
THE LINCOLN 
-COMING NEXT-
Harold Pinter's Drama 
Directed By 
Joseph Losey 
'ACCIDENT!' 
with Dirk Bogarde 
A Bizarre British Love-
Drama Set Against A 
College S.ckground 
THE CROWN 
o,.n Daily at12:45 
M.G.MPresents 
A New Film By 
Jack Clayton 
Our Mother's 
House 
Acclaimed By Critics 
As One of The Year's Best 
T}fE LARGEST LP SELECnON .. ~ 
DISCOUNTS ON ALL RECORDS 
NEW HAV&'S ONLY COMPLETE RECORD SHOP 
CDUE IN AND BROWSE FREELY 
3:! BROADWAY, NEW HAVEN, CONN., 777~27 1 


**Beach Boys**
**Author: William Burstein**
**Page number(s): 15**

15 !The New Journal! November 12, 1967 
ll 
~ ,etting the right kind of publicity. Both 
ll to attract and hold instrumentalists of 
suflk:iently high caliber and to develop 
a steady audience require that the 
orchestra in some sense make the Yale 
et scene. No doubt with the continued 
'f li enthusiasm of its supporters, combined 
perhaps with a little official patronage 
15 from the ruling clique in Woodbridge Hall, 
n this will ultimately come to pass. In the 
meanwhile one can only suggest that the 
Y Yale Symphony concerts are as interesting 
sc as any at Yale and well worth the atten-
j lion of the Yale community. 
-Richard Gordon 
Graduate student 
in mathematics 
J< 
1$ . Beach Boys 
I 
1. The Beach Boys have done it again. 
1t lbey've come out with another album 
fX which has only two good songs, both of 
I which were popular as singles: "Heroes 
and Villains," and-believe it or not, this 
is a new album-"Good Vibrations." 

Aside from these two, Smiley Smile 
If (Brother Records ST 9001) is a mishmash. 
Some titles, such as "She's Goin' Bald," 
are more fun to contemplate than the 
ti songs are to listen to. Most of the songs, 
notably "Fall Breaks and Back to Winter 
:.a (W. Woodpecker Symphony)" and 
ol! "Whistle In," are insufferably repetitious, 
and banal to boot. On the other hand, 
i)e "Vegetables" is an amiable nonsense song, 
and "Gettin' Hungry" is a fair parody. 

But the Beach Boys have lost their 
inventiveness; and where once their sound 
waa vibrant, now it is moribund. One's 
reaction to the album as a whole is like 
one's reaction to "Wind Chimes" on side 2: 
at first it seems funny; then it becomes 
~ull. later stupid and inept; and finally it 
IS forgotten. 
. 

**Classifieds**

Classifieds 
~per word 
-William Burstein 
Yale College 
IS, per word, 2 consecutive insertions 
of same ad. 
IS, per word, 3 or more consecutive 
insertions of same ad. 
Ada may be mailed or telephoned to: 
'Niniam M. Burstein 
S44 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
n6-2SSl 
.. aaday-Tbursday 7-8 p.m. 
I lost my ENGLISH 89 NOTES. I want them 
'-L Please. Jon Marks, 1860 Yale Station. 
.\1] of BART TEUSH'S FRIENDS are 
~ 
to go up to Middlebury College in 
Middlebury, Vermont, on November 17, 18, 
~~see his production of Who's Afraid of 
~nia Woolf, as the play was originally 
Yiritten. Co-ed sleeping arrangements are 
1~1e. 
~lrm female grad student wanted. To live 
1rith. Write "Female" c/o New Journal. 
\IVS
111ted: office workers several hours a week. 
.50 per. 865-3682. 


**Shaw**
**Author: Paul Malamud**

Shaw 
The Davenport Dramat's production of 
Shaw's St. Joan (October 26 and 27) was 
another reminder that the main weakness 
of undergraduate theater at Yale consists 
in the quality of the casts. The actors, 
drawn from Davenport and from the local 
area, did not measure up to the demands 
the play put upon them. This was espe-
cially regrettable in the case of Lois 
Look, who played Joan. Shaw conceived 
of Joan as a gir~ who was simple but who 
nonetheless had a certain strength of 
character. Miss Look, a small brunette 
with braids, radiated tomboyish goodwill, 
but gave the audience no hint of the 
magnetic attraction that the real Joan 
must have had to exercise over those head-
strong French barons. The rest of the 
acting tended to be caricature rather 
than characterization; (some of this, 
admittedly, turned out to be very amusing, 
thanks largely to Nicholas Bellotto, who 
played the imbecile King.) 

Paul Corum, who directed the play, 
did his best to supplement the acting by 
peppering the stage with slapstick, 
caricature and vehemence. This was 
entertaining, and it might have been 
successful if the drama of the play con-
sisted in fervid expression of emotion rather 
than in the tension between opposed ways 
of thinking. One should always get the 
feeling that the characters in a Shaw play, 
no matter what they say, are gentlemen 
speaking to other gentlemen. The actors 
in the Davenport production shouted, 
pleaded, and wept when they should have 
talked. Thus, by adding more kinetic 
energy than some of the scenes could 
comfortably contain, Mr. Corum 
weakened the drama. 

But, in spite of a certain lack of style, 
the production was splendid entertain-
ment, and drew a packed house the second 
night it was presented. The pace rarely 
slackened (in itself a miracle for college 
dramats), and Mr. Corum showed a fine 
eye for compositions involving groups of 
people, paying, at the same time, 
scrupulous attention to detail. Some of 
the credit for the successes of the produc-
tion must go to Lane Halteman who 
designed the sets and lighting, making 
excellent use of a few wooden platforms, 
a few flats, and a few chairs. The various 
locations were suggested by the projection 
of semi-abstract designs against the back 
of the flats. The cast was in contemporary 
dress, adding to the impact of simple 
design. 

All in all, it was quite an ingenious 
evening. If acting had been there, it could 
have been outstanding. 
-Paul Malamud 


**Moon**
**Author: Dewey R. Faulkner**

Dark of the Moon, a play by Howard 
Richardson and William Berney, to be 
presented by the Yale Dramat on 
Princeton and Harvard weekends, is 
generally looked upon as a mere dramatic 
curiosity dealing, as it does, with material 
derived from southern legend and 
superstition. Actually, it is the culmination 
of an American playwriting tradition, and 
is inextricably tied up with the southern 
literary movement that is represented by 
Faulkner, Tate, Wolfe and Capote. Dark 
of the Moon is a far lesser work than the 
works of these men; but its history has a 
peculiar interest. 

In 1918 the North Carolina legislature, 
recognizing the cultural void in the state, 
agreed to the founding of a drama depart-
ment at the University in Chapel Hill; 
this primarily involved the hiring of 
Professor Frederick H . Koch, who was to 
create the department, produce plays, 
and encourage playwriting. Koch had 
done graduate work at Harvard under 
George Pierce Baker, who later founded 
the Yale School of Drama, and wlls 
influenced both by Baker's taste in plays 
and his revolutionary classroom methods 
(as was Eugene O'Neill, another one of 
Baker's pupils). Baker bad a special liking 
for the plays of Yeats, Synge and Lady 
Gregory, which drew heavily on Irish folk 
material. When Koch came to UNC, he 
encouraged the writing of similar folk 
plays by his students, whose knowledge of 
legends, superstition, and local anecdote 
necessarily bad to provide the raw material 
for original plays. 

North Carolina was then an especially 
fertile area for such material. In the 17th 
century, many English peasants who 
came to settle in the New World passed 
through the (for them) heavily populated 
Eastern seaboard, and moved into the 
small mountain valleys of the Appala-
chians, in search of new land. Their 
communities quickly became isolated 
from the rest of the country, and 
developed a thickly ingrown body of 
legend and folklore. 

In the 1920's (and even today) these 
communities remained approximately 
what they were 300 years ago. In many 
parts of the mountains people still spoke 
with a strange accent that was, in effect, 
a 17th century version of Cockney. 
Belief in magic was still prevalent-if a 
farmer wished for better crops, he might 
draw a circle around himself, abjure the 
Trinity nine times, put one hand on his 
head, the other on his feet and say 
"Everything between my two hands is now 
the property of the devil." 

Not only did people believe in a 
supernatural other-world, but accepted the 
presence of supernatural beings in real 
life. "Conjurmen" and "conjurwomen" 
were especially feared and distrusted-
one's neighbor, or even one's grandfather 
might turn out to be one of them. 

Normally, these "people" only spelled or 
"conjured" folks who had injured or 
insulted them, making them ill, causing 
their crops to fail or their livestock to die. 
Occasionally, when really angry, they 
would kill or carry off folks. 

It was the conjur-people, however, 
who were especially dangerous. But 
killing them raised a problem-it could 
only be done by a silver bullet. One 
Carolina legend concerns an old Negro 
who was out hunting with his muzzle-
loader, and noticed a red-headed 
woodpecker on a hollow stump. He shot 
at the bird until all his ammunition was 
exhausted, but the bird kept pecking 
away. Finally, he realized that the bird 
was actually a conjurman, so he took a 
dime and dropped it down his barrel. He 
shot, and the bird fell dead. Similar tales 
were (and still are) to be found all through 
the area; several of them seem to lie 
behind Dark of the Moon. 

Other sources for plays were local 
anecdotes, which normally emerged as 
exercises in local color writing. These, for 
instance, form the basis of .. The Return 
of Buck Gavin, the Tragedy of a 
Mountain Outlaw" by Thomas Wolfe, a 
student of Koch in 1918, and of In 
Abraham's Bosom, which won the 
Pulitzer Prize for another of Koch's 
students, Paul Green~ in 1926. Green's 
Johnny Johnson, another drama rooted 
in Koch's folk-play tradition, was given 
music by Kurt Weill; it was produced here 
last sprin~ in Jonathan Edwards College. 

These plays all take on a certa.in signifi-
cance because of the contribution they 
made to the general literary resurgence 
of the South in the 1920's, 30's, and 40's. 
Thomas Wolfe's Of Time and the River 
draws directly from the Chapel Hill 
material. Wolfe's original intention, 
largely because of Koch's influence, was to 
become a dramatist; he even went so far 
as to study with Baker at Harvard, but 
found Cambridge less stimulating than 
Chapel Hill and turned to writing novels. 

The "Southern Renaissance," which 
included such figures as Cleanth Brooks 
and Robert Penn Warren, collapsed soon 
after the war; but the folk-movement that 
was allied to it left behind such monuments 
(not only in the South) as Wilder's Our 
Town, and Gershwin and Heyward's 
Porgy and Bess. Koch's own monuments 
are the four volumes of Carolina Folk-
Plays he published between 1922 and 
1931, and, of course, the Carolina Play-
makers, currently celebrating their 
fiftieth season. (There is also a chance that 
the Carolina folk-play may be given 
another start with the off-Broadway 
production of a new one, Ronnie 
Umberger's A. men to a Mantis later this 
season.) 

Following Baker, Koch had conducted 
the class "communally": members would 
bring in plot outlines and scenes for 
reading and criticism by the class. This 
became, and still is standard procedure 
in most universities today. When Howard 
Richardson, a student of Koch•s in the 
30's, left Chapel Hill for Iowa State, he 
not only took with him memories of 
Carolina legends, but also memories 
of many of his classmate's plays, and in-
corporated somewhat more of their work 
than has been considered prudent in 
Chapel Hill since. Curiously, in the 
foreword to the "New Edition" of 
Dark of the Moon, Koch and the Play-
makers are not once mentioned, although 
Richardson's avowed purpose is to tell of 
the play's origins. 

In any case, the play itself is partially 
based on the Ballad of Barbara Allen 
and partially on the Undine legend. In the 
former, a young woman causes her lover 
to die by refusing to requite his love, then, 
she dies herself. In the latter, a super-
natural being falls in love with a mortal 
and is changed to a mortal himself on the 
condition of the mortal's fidelity; the 
condition is broken, and the unfortunate 
mortal in question dies. 

Around these plots, Richardson has 
placed a series of anecdotal scenes of the 
mountain folk, and filled the whole with 
folk-songs, dances, and proverbs, all of 
which give the play much of its life. He 
has hit the speech idiom amazingly well, 
and the play is produced frequently in 
the South. Dark of the Moon is probably 
the Carolina folk-play, and, although not 
"great drama," it is pleasant, amusing, and 
very entertaining in production. 
-Dewey R. Faulkner 
Insquctor in English 




NEW HAVEN COLLE 
PRESENTS 
ARTHUR 
POPS 
CONCERT 
CONDUCTING 
THE NEW HAVEN 
SYMPHONY 
BENEFIT OF 
NEW HAVEN 
COLLEGE 
LffiRARY 
8:30 P.M. 
DECEMBER 1ST-.-.-
FRIDAY WOOLSEY HALL 
All SEATS RESERVED $3.00 $3.50 $4.00 $5.00 
TICKETS AT 
N.H. SYMPHONY OFFICE: 
NEW HAVEN COLLEGE 
DAVID DEAN SMITH: 
LOOMIS TEMPLE OF MUSIC 

